ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u1	There is a necessary quorum. Dear colleagues, I offer to your attention the following Project for the National Assembly's work for the period from 15 to 17 July 2015. 1. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Family Aid Act for Children. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 2. Second vote on the Bill on the closure of the National Grains Service. Importer - Council of Ministers. 3. Second vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Consumer Protection. Importer - Council of Ministers. 4. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Water Act. Importer - Council of Ministers. 5. First vote on the Bill amending the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land. Importer - Council of Ministers. It is intended to be t. 1 for Thursday, as the report was made available to the Members of the National Assembly late yesterday afternoon and must expire the 24-hour deadline under our Rules of Procedure. 6. Second vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Forest Act. Importer - Council of Ministers. 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government. Importers are Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. A continuation of second reading in previous plenary sittings. 8. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Customs Act. Importer - Council of Ministers. 9. Second vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Criminal Court on the relocation of witnesses to the Court of Justice in the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer - Council of Ministers. 10. Parliamentary control under art. 91-103 of the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly, scheduled for Friday, 17 July 2015 from 11.00 to 17.00 This time there are enough members of the government who have stated the opportunity to answer questions and questions of MPs. Please vote, fellow Members. They voted 154 MPs: 132 against 1, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. In the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure was received a proposal from Mr. Velizar Enchev, which proposes that a draft law on political parties should be included in the weekly programme as a separate point. Mr. Enchev, you have the opportunity to defend your proposal within 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! On 3 February I submitted a draft law supplementing the Law on Political Parties with motives to it, but because at this time the Committee on Legal Affairs has not spoken under the Bill, I use my right and I make the following proposal: to enter into the weekly program this Law, which is in one sentence:.. The State subsidy of political parties received in parliamentary elections more than 1%, to fall from 11,00 to 5,00 BGN.............................................................. The text is just a sentence. What are the motives? The reasons are that, as I said, the subsidy is extremely high "11.00 BGN." out loud, which is almost 6 euros, a sum unimaginably high for the European Union. On this occasion, I would like to tell you that in the countries of the European Union, the average amount of the party subsidy is EUR 3.5 per vote. And right now, in the richest country, Germany is being allocated to one MP 50 euro cents per vote. Greece: party subsidies last year have been drastically reduced and 60 euro cents per vote for a party that received over 1% in the parliamentary elections have already been made. To be comparable with our fellows abroad, to tell you that in the Republic of Macedonia the party subsidy is about 1.00 BGN, i.e. 11 times lower than the Bulgarian one. My proposal, I repeat, is to examine this draft law, to vote in the interests of Bulgarian citizens who are outraged by these godlessly high state subsidies and to become from BGN 11.00. At BGN 5,00. And since I have very little time left, just to give for comparison not so much to you, as you know, but to the Bulgarian citizens that for these four years of the elections 5 October last year, the parties will receive the following money with this subsidy of 11,00 BGN.: GERB will receive 48 million BGN, BSP 22 million. BGN, DPS "22 million," RB "13 million," PF "10 million," Bulgaria without censorship "8 million and so on and so on." [[Noise and lines from the hall.]] Say, is it socially fair to receive these huge subsidies against the backdrop of mass poverty in Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u3	Thank you, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u4	Thank you for your support for the entry of this Voting Act into the weekly programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u5	I put to the vote Mr. Enchev's proposal to include this bill in our weekly program. 140 MPs voted: 22, against 54, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. Revoting, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u6	I ask for a revoting so that the Bulgarian people can see who is who for what! And those who just tossed their pills out of the stands let the Bulgarian people know that this is how they talk to eight million Bulgarians: take your pills, because in this hall they should receive tens of millions of government subsidies for developing party activities! Please vote in conscience for your constituents, not for my proposal!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u7	It's a re-vote. Ivanov, please don't fight from the ground up! They voted 136 MPs: 22, against 52, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. Bills and draft decisions for the time from 8 July to 14 July 2015: Draft Law amending the Law on Higher Education. The representatives of the National Assembly are Borislav Velikov, Milena Damyanova, Milen Mihov, Mariana Todorova, Mariana Georgieva, Krasimira Kovatchka, Stanislav Stanilov and Valeri Zablyanov. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Education and Science. A bill to supplement the Value Added Tax Act. The importer is Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is also the lead of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. A bill implementing the Convention on cluster ammunition and the Convention on the prohibition of the use, storage, production and transfer of anti-personnel mines and of their destruction. The importer is Valentin Radev and a group of MPs. The Committee on Defence is led by the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Cultural Heritage Act. The importer is Krasimir Velchev and a group of MPs. The Committee on Culture and Media is the lead, it is also assigned to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. A bill for early termination of contracts for the production of electricity. Importers are Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The Energy Commission is the lead, is also assigned to the Monitoring Commission of the activities of the SEWRC, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft amending and supplementing the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act. The importer is Rumen Hristov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Agriculture and Food and also the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Budget and Finance is leading. A bill to amend and supplement the Animal Protection Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Agriculture and Food has been led by the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion of income and profits from the transfer of property. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft decision for adoption of the Annual Activity Report of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2014. Importer is the Council of Ministers, allocated to the Committee on Health. Draft decision for adoption of the report on the implementation of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2014. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It will be examined by the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Health. Project for a solution for the opening of the Philial "Shoumen," in the structure of the Medical University "Prof. Dr. Paraskev Ivanov Stoyanov Importer is the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Education and Science and the Committee on Health. Draft amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A bill to amend and supplement the Law on Radio and Television. The importer is Stefan Danailov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Culture and Media is also leading, it is also assigned to the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Child Protection Act. The importer is Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights is the lead. Draft amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. The representatives of the National Assembly are Rumen Hristov and Martin Dimitrov. The Committee on Budget and Finance will see it and the Committee on Agriculture and Food. The National Assembly received material from the National Statistical Institute containing statistical research results on consumer price indices for June 2015. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving to point one of our weekly program: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR FAMILY HELPS FOR CHILDREN. There is a report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy for Second Reading. We're listening, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u8	Thank you, Madam President. In connection with the discussion of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children, there was a procedural proposal in the Chamber to allow the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Lazar Lazarov and Mrs. Elena Kremenlieva, Director of the Directorate of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u9	I put the proposal to the vote. They voted 143 MPs: 133, against 5, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u10	On 5 May 2015, the Council of Ministers submitted a report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children No 502-01-35 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 May 2015. The Law on Family Aid for Children is amended and supplemented by the Law on Family Aid for Children. (Obn., SG...) The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u11	Statements? I won't. We vote on the name of the law. They voted 132 MPs: for 131, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u12	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u13	We vote § 1. They voted 121 MPs: 121, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u14	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u15	We are voting on § 2 by importer, supported by the Commission. They voted 116 MPs: 116, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u16	Paragraph 3. There is a proposal from the MP Hasan Ademov: In § 3 concerning art. 2, the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2, p. the word "Ossinator' is deleted; 2. In para. 6 after the words "supplied' the words "supplied' shall be added in whole or in part; 3. In para. 6, p. 4 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u17	Statements? We're listening, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u18	Thank you, Madam President. The proposal is related to the dropping of the word. After carrying out the act of adoption, the adopted person is placed in the legal position of the adoptive child. There are rights and obligations between the adopted and the adoptor as between relatives of origin, that is, a parent and a child. Parental rights and duties pass on to the adoptive father. This applies to both the assumptions of adoption "full and incomplete adoption" as set out in art. Art. 101, Art. 102 of the Family Code. I mean, legally, the adoptor becomes a parent. The Commission's arguments not to support the proposal were linked to the fact that a different interpretation might arise and that someone might think that adoptive parents and adoptive parents could, respectively, drop out of the support system. The second point I propose is that aid in kind may be granted in whole or in part. The proposal aims to enable social workers to be able to determine the circumstances under which aid is to be granted in kind, including providing for the possibility of aid in kind to be granted in part or over a certain period of time. It is envisaged to offer a differentiated approach depending on the specific needs of the supported persons and families, which will ensure that the child's interest is not affected. The next proposal under art. 2, para. 6, p. 4 to drop out, is related to the granting of aid only in kind to underage mothers. This proposal relates to the fact that limiting the granting of family aid to minors only to aid in kind violates the principle of respect for the best interests of the child and directly violates the rights of the child to be placed at the heart of the considerations.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u19	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Hasan Ademov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 114 MPs: 27, against 4, abstention 83. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission for § 3. They voted 104 MPs: 96, against 2, abstention 6. Paragraph 3 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u20	No proposals have been made under paragraphs 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u21	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 4 to 8 including by importer which are supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 99 MPs: for 98, against none, abstention 1. Paragraphs 4 to 8 including by importer, according to the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u22	Under § 9 there is a proposal of the National Representative Hasan Ademov: In § 9 concerning art. 7 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 11 t. 3 dropped out; 2. Al. 12 dropped out; 3. Al. 13 becomes para. 12; 4. The new al. 12 is amended as follows: (a) In a sentence first, the words first. The following points are inserted after point 3 (Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the (b) In the first sentence, the word The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 2, 3 and 4, and times t. 1 is withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u23	Statements? Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The intended penalty shall allow monthly aid to be granted again not earlier than one year from the date of termination, the right of access to education shall be violated by the child. The principle of the temporary nature of the restrictive measures regulated by art. 3, p. 7 of the Child Protection Act. Penal measures for families living in poverty lead to their further impoverishment, increasing the risk of lag and institutionalisation of children due to their inability to be kept in a family environment. Living conditions and caring for the child will surely deteriorate due to reduced incomes for families. So I suggest that this point is dropped.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u25	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I put to the vote points 2, 3 and 4 of the proposal of the MP Hasan Ademov, who are not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 108 MPs: 18, against 5, abstention 85. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission for § 9. Please vote. Vote 98 MPs: 93, none, abstention 5. The text of § 9 by importer supported by the Commission has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u26	Under § 10, there is a proposal of the National Representative Hasan Ademov: In § 10, concerning art. The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1, the word "senior' is deleted; 2. In para. 1, t. 3 the word "Synthesis' is deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10. This hypothesis, Mr. Chairman, has already been rejected, so I withdraw this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u27	So we won't vote on your proposal if you withdraw it. Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In the wording of § 10, c. 4 contains a text that is contrary to the Bulgarian legislation, namely, I read it so that you can understand what it is about: The child has made all mandatory immunizations and preventive examinations according to his age and health condition. The Bulgarian legislation, honourable Members, has set up a committee because there are children who are not subject to immunization and this committee exempts these children from immunization. I ask: if this child, within the meaning of this committee, is not immunized, will it be deprived? Because the text reads: "If immunizations are put in place, so I propose an editorial supplement of the text that reads the following to make the text clear: "If the same is not released from such. " Once again, the Bulgarian law has established a special committee that deals with this, and thus defined the text means that all children must be immune. I suggest this supplement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u29	- What's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u30	The Rules of Application of the Social Assistance Act states that those who have medical contraindications and diseases are released.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u31	Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Dimitar Bayraktarov. They voted 106 MPs: 24, against 8, abstention 74. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission for § 10. Vote 98 MPs: 96, none, abstention 2. The text of the importer for § 10, supported by the Commission, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u32	Under Paragraph 11, there is a proposal from the National Representative Hasan Ademov: In § 11 concerning art. 8c, the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the word "innovator' is deleted. 2. In para. points 2, 3 and 4 are deleted; 3. In para. 3 the word "Synthesis' is deleted. 4. In para. 4 the word "adopter' is deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11. Mr. Chairman, I'm withdrawing the offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u33	Withdrawn, thank you. Statements? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see that the texts are being adopted at a pace without considering, without thinking, honourable Members, I apologise for having to tell you this. Paragraph 11, para. 1, t. 4 is in absolute contradiction with Article 4. 21 of the Child Protection Act. Now let me explain what the text in this § 11, para. 1, t. 4. The mother, the adoptive mother, has not been provided and receives no compensation for pregnancy, birth and child rearing under the Social Security Code. To make it even clearer, al. 1 states that a mother (the adoptive mother) student is entitled to one-off help, which is quite serious. Notice what happens in this text. Dear colleagues, tell us how an adoptive mother, uninsured, who herself cannot provide, will adopt a child, provided that art. 21 of the Child Protection Act says that the Agency for Social Assistance should carry out an extremely serious analysis of the adopter. This analysis is a criterion for whether the adoptor can raise and create conditions for the child. I took the trouble of doing research and seeing how many student moms were lining up to adopt children. Turns out in regular training this number of students is zero. Assemblies are provided and do not belong to the group. They didn't give me any information, so I can't tell you if there are any such adoptive parents or not. Thus, the text is contrary to art. 21 of the Child Protection Act. It is a non-working text, but it opens a door for abuse and draining of social funds, for creating a profession to absorb social benefits. Therefore, I propose a t. 4 to be removed from the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u35	- What's the line? Statements? Welcome to Svetlana Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I believe that the wording of the importer under § 11 is quite correct because all the aid granted under the Family Aid Act for children is for insecure mothers. I'm stressing uninsured! The insured mothers receive benefits for pregnancy, birth and raising of a child from social security under the Social Security Code. That's why we can't accept the proposal of the speaker. In addition, adoptive parents and mothers must be uninsured. If provided, they fall into the hypothesis of the insured and will benefit from all rights of the Social Security Code. We cannot accept this proposal of our colleague Bajraktarov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I pay attention to you that this is about a student adoptive mother. She's a adoptive student! Anyone who knows the Social Security Code is aware that the insured persons receive the corresponding benefits under art. Art. 48, Art. 48a, but that's something else.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u39	Indemnifications.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u40	Yeah, benefits, that's right. However, this is something quite different. We are talking here that the adoptive mother must meet the requirements of art. 21 of the Child Protection Act, provided that it is not provided, cannot be adopted because it simply cannot meet the criteria of art. 21 of the Child Protection Act. That's what I'm trying to explain, and I can't figure out why it's this naïve resistance to insert a text that enables social funds to be drained?! We're already talking about serious help here, even though it's a one-time thing. Serious help! This is what I am trying to explain to you: should we open a door to create a profession for draining the social funds, which are ultimately imported by all working Bulgarian mothers, adoptive parents and so on?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u41	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Bayraktarov, I would recommend that you read again the Family Aid Act for children, the Social Security Code and the Child Protection Act. There is no draining of social funds here under the Family Aid Act for children. The money under the Family Aid Act for children is from the state budget, not from any social funds. There's nothing wrong with a woman who isn't provided to be an adoptive mother. This is not contrary to any law of the Child Protection Act or the Family Code. Your proposal is absolutely unfounded. Before you go out on the stand and say false things, you should get to know the regulations very well.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov to drop the item. 1, para. 1, t. 4 in § 11. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov to drop the item. 4. They voted 105 MPs: 13 against 35, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 11, which shall be supported by the Commission. Since the proposal of the MP Hasan Ademov has been withdrawn, I will not put him to the vote. Vote 98 MPs: 92, none, abstention 6. The text of the importer for § 11, supported by the Commission in its report, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u44	Mr. Chairman, under paragraphs 12, 13, 14 and 15, no proposals have been made. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 12, 13, 14 and 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u45	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for paragraphs 12 to 15 including those supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 111 MPs: 108, none, abstention 3. The texts for paragraphs 12 to 15 included have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u46	Under § 16 there is a proposal of the National Representative Hasan Ademov: In § 16 concerning art. 12, the following amendment shall be made: "1." In para. 1, t. 5 the word "Ossinator' is deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16. I withdraw this offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u47	Statements? I won't. People's representative Hasan Ademov has just withdrawn his proposal, so we are going to vote on the text of the importer for § 16, which is supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 105 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 1. Paragraph 16 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u48	No proposals have been made under the following paragraphs 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21. The Commission shall support the importer's proposals for paragraphs 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Statements? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, as I have told you, just moments ago you adopted paragraphs 6, 7 and 8. I hope you've read what you've accepted and what you've voted on. I'll pay attention to what you've taken. You assumed that if the person had eventually violated the conditions for receiving aid, they would have to recover the aid concerned. However, I am asking you, and now I want it to happen, if possible, Mr. Deputy Minister, I am interested in why there is no Deputy Prime Minister and Minister here and to explain to you what mechanism this assistance will be restored to. We in the Commission's Patriotic Front have made proposals which, of course, have not entered into the report that this assistance should not be granted to a particular group of persons, because it is then clear that they will be intruders, but there is no mechanism by which it can be restored. No mechanism! Moreover, they tried to explain to us how these persons would be punished with a fine, but in the first part it is a matter of minors who, according to art. 15, para. 2 of the Administrative Procedure Code there is no way, they are forbidden to impose a fine. The only punishment you can impose on them is a reprimand for draining some money, not a little, millions of levs. If you look at the Social Assistance Agency's report, you'll see how much million we're talking about. And then we insert a dead text that sounds beautiful: you see, when we're trespassing, we're gonna want to get our money back, but there's no mechanism for this to happen. This question was asked by Minister Kalfin and the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Of course, he truly admitted that there was no such mechanism. Why am I taking this statement? Because in § 19, Art. 15 says that the Minister of Labour and Social Policy exercises overall control over compliance with this Law. I have proposed that by failing to carry out such controls, the Minister should bear administrative and criminal responsibility. Given that he himself knows that there is no mechanism under which the unduly paid aid and abuses by persons with such aid can be recovered, it is appropriate that, once it has been replaced, it also bears the corresponding responsibility laid down in that Law. That is why I am proposing: after the word "law" to be supplemented: the Minister is responsible for administrative and criminal responsibility in the absence of such control. Let us ultimately start betting in the Law the carrying of such responsibility and citizens within the meaning of the Bulgarian law to have the opportunity to exercise civic control and to seek the responsibility of the Minister. As long as he knows that there is no such mechanism, let him bear the responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u51	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? Any other speeches? National Representative Svetlana Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Bajraktarov, we discussed this proposal at a meeting of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and found that it is absolutely incorrect. On which composition do you propose that the Minister of Labour and Social Policy be responsible? There's no way in the Children's Family Aid Act you can put penal responsibility. The criminal liability is borne by the PPC and not by the Family Aid Act for children, so this proposal of yours is absolutely unacceptable, that is what your fellow lawyers from your parliamentary group will tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u53	- What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Angelova, your speech is absolutely incorrect and even bordering on another extreme, but I, unlike you, will refrain from this incorrect tone and speech style. First, the Penal Code provides for art. 282 and, secondly, it is not for a reason that I say: administrative or criminal, because the one who decides what responsibility an official should have is the Bulgarian court. Of course, neither of us here can seize the functions of the court and tell a person whether he should have criminal or administrative responsibility, because in addition to all that depends on the extent of the infringement committed, its size. You can meet art. 93. There are described the size of the corresponding penalties. I have no intention of giving you a lecture on law. [[Laughter, excitement and applause from GERB.]] In order to correct the text and be finally answered to the Bulgarian society, because during the entire 25-year transition the Bulgarian state and the Bulgarian society were continuously robbed, however, there was no convicted minister, no deputy minister, no politician. Well, let us at last bet texts, since the Minister knows that there is no possibility and mechanism to recover the wrongfully paid aid collected from the taxes of honest and honest Bulgarian citizens, let him be responsible for not implementing this control. What's wrong with that?! What are you worried about?! If you become a minister tomorrow, no problem, you will be strict, you will obey the law and you have nothing to worry about. Is that what you're worried about? That someone is in danger of not fulfilling and not implementing control to be responsible? Of course he'll wear it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u55	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov, only that you had to bet it between first and second readings in order to get into the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u56	We suggested it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u57	You suggested it, but after a seven-day deadline. Any other speeches? If there isn't, we're going to vote. The proposal made by the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov is not editorial, so I will not put it to the vote. I shall put to the vote the texts of paragraphs 17 to 21, including by importer, which are supported in the Commission report. Vote 108 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 3. The texts of paragraphs 17 to 21 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u58	The name "Transitional and Final Provisions" and § 22, § 23 and § 24 have not been made. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name "Transitional and Final Provisions', § 22, § 23 and § 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u59	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision, as well as paragraphs 22, 23 and 24 including those supported by the Commission. Vote 104 MPs: for 103, there is no abstention 1. The name of the section "Transitional and final provisions', as well as paragraphs 22, 23 and 24 of the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u60	Under § 25, there is a proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova, made in accordance with Article 25. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union with the exception of art. 2, para. 2, p. 3, § 6, t. 2 concerning Art. 6, para. Art. 2, Art. Art. 6b. 7, para. 4, 5, 6, 8, 14 and 15, which shall enter into force from 1 January 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u61	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer edited by the Commission for § 25. They voted 109 MPs: 109, no opposition and no abstentions. The text for § 25 on the Commission's report has been unanimously adopted and thus the Law of the Second Voting. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR CLOSING THE NATIONAL SETTLEMENT. The report of the Committee on Agriculture and Food will introduce us to its President Rumen Hristov. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before we proceed to the Bill, I shall make a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for admission to the Chamber of the Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Food Tsvetan Dimitrov. Please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u63	Please vote on the proposal made by the MP Rumen Hristov for the admission of Deputy Minister Dimitrov to the plenary. 99 MPs voted: 97, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Invite Mr. Deputy Minister to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u64	Report on the closure of the National Grain Service Act, No 502-01-44, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 June 2015, adopted on the first vote on 26 June 2015. Law on the closure of the National grain service. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u65	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of the Law. They voted 93 MPs: 77 against 16, no abstentions. The name of the Import Act supported by the Commission has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u66	I'm the only one. The Commission shall support the text of the importer as a sole member.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u67	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the text of the importer, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 74 against 17, abstention 4. The text of the importer as a Member has only been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u68	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision as well as paragraphs 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u69	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposed Bill proposes to repeal the law on conservation and trade in grain, which we object to for reasons relating, first, to the reasons for the creation of this Law. This Law was established in 1998. Not only in Bulgaria, but all countries in the European Union have taken the necessary measures to stabilise and strengthen food security in each of the countries. There have been crises in Bulgaria until 1998 related to the cereals sector. This has required the adoption of such a law. In 2007, the Law was harmonised with European requirements. In 2010, the Law was subjected to an international audit which defined the need to reduce certain administrative procedures and they were taken into account. That the Law needs to be changed, there is, but its complete annulment creates prerequisites in the country for what is envisaged in the next members of the State and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to be the only observers of what is happening in the cereals sector without having any opportunities to influence or correct a policy that would be directed against the Bulgarian citizens. The reasons of the Law repealing the Law on the Conservation and Trade of Grains indicate that we are in the European Union and as a member of the European Union we are protected from the point of view that food security is guaranteed. Unfortunately, this is not the case because food crises do not arise in plan, but in crisis and affect absolutely all citizens. Not by accident a few weeks ago, the previous Commissioner of the European Commission, Tsolos, was appointed to be responsible for the European Union's food security, given, above all, the cereals sector, which is extremely important for the economy of the European Union and also for the citizens of each of the countries. Looking at and commenting on the annulment of the Law, many questions arise to me. First, there will be legal chaos. Why? Because so far we have a law on conservation and trade in grain. According to this Law there are public warehouses which against code records can be used as collateral for credit to banks. There's licensed warehouses, there's grain stores. They are controlled not only by the submission of information, but also physically about what is happening and how the rights of the investors are protected in them. Vlogs are over 50 grand. farmers who do not have storage facilities and provide their grain respectively, their production in these grain stores and their interests are protected. With the adoption of the Law in practice, what do you say? The status of authorised grain stores or public warehouses disappears. There are still keepers who have no responsibility to those who have put their grain into it. The fact that they will submit information in one or three months without absolutely no obligation to make this information credible without checking is something that will create a problem. I do not want to be a bad prophet, however, the lack of control in the cereals sector will be and is a problem for every country in the European Union. All crises that have passed Bulgaria have taken place in a short time, not in a month. They have been up for weeks, which has reflected on the Bulgarian consumer that prices have risen in times or lack has led to the fact that it has created chaos in the market. Vloggers are not protected in any form. For us, the Law is lobbyist because, in this way, with lack of control, we are given prerequisites for being the only country in the European Union that cannot protect producers, there is no way to protect their interests, and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food does not have the option of guaranteeing the country's cereal balance and food security. The reasons and speeches say that the reverse charge of VAT by the end of 2015 creates prerequisites for control of the food chain. Not at all! The National Revenue Agency had and needs the information that is collected under the Law on conservation and trade in grain. The lack of this Law creates prerequisites for us to have no idea what will happen and what will be the reaction of the state authorities precisely in the event of crises. Things need to be reconsidered. There must be some sense, because none of you can guarantee that there will be no crises in the cereals sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u71	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Danev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will not make a statement, as I would repeat what my colleague Bachvarova said. Therefore, as a reply, I will ask some questions that I think it is appropriate to have an answer to.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u73	You don't agree that Professor. Bachvarova didn't touch those questions, did she?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u74	It affected them, but much more...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u75	You have to disagree.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u76	Yes, I disagree, as her explanations were insufficient to convince the House that closing the Law on conservation and trade in grain would lead to serious problems which, in all likelihood, God forbid they happen, but if they arise, very difficult issues such as a grain crisis can be regulated at the price. We have to find solutions. Personally, I think the National Grain Service is like civil protection. It is a service that has to do its work quietly, calmly and gathering information when a force majeure situation arises, to react so that problems can be resolved very quickly. A force majeure situation may be a shortage of certain quantities of grain or an increase in prices in relation to a change in the market situation. College Bachvarova, I would ask you to confirm your opinion and express your position. Dividing the functions of the National Grains Service, the Food Agency and the Ministry of Agriculture, expressing themselves in the Regional Services, how they will do the controls so that two offices and the Ministry can resolve issues that arise in such a situation. The National Grain Service itself can't handle it, and by dividing these functions, there may be a problem that I want to hear how it will be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Danev. Professor. Bachvarova, please come in if you understand what is disagreeable with the honourable colleague Danev, answer him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u78	Dear colleagues! Dear colleague Danev, my speech was aimed at the fact that we are strongly opposed to the annulment of the Law on conservation and trade in grain. If measures were taken to improve this Law, increase and ensure the regulatory functions of the Grain Office, we would be actively involved. But then all the written texts that call into question the state's control at all are against it, because the only thing that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food through the regional services will do is register and monitor what is happening in the cereals sector without having a commitment even to be credible information that is being submitted in the declarations. Therefore, that inspectors by chance or by any other sign will visit one of the nipples, or by signal, this absolutely does not solve the question that we can put ourselves to. The fact that the laboratories that are currently at the National Grains Service are going to the Food Safety Agency also does not solve any questions at all. The laboratories are for farmers, they are not for the state, because when there is a dispute, there must be arbitration. This arbitrage says: "You, respectively, as a depositor, have put in an amount of grain, with a number of quality indicators. And as a depositor, you should be guaranteed that you have this amount of grain and you can realize it on the market when you are comfortable. With this law, what do we say? Vlogodators, first, immediately sell your grain, because you are not guaranteed absolutely no security for what you own or, if there is a situation where this grain disappears for many reasons, and such situations exist and have happened in Bulgaria, you can recover respectively the lost funds you have realised in the decision to stay in the situation where you can use grain stores. Apart from that, there is absolutely no security for the tenants of warehouses, the owner of the warehouse is not responsible at all. From this point of view, all written texts create chaos and a prerequisite for grain producers who receive more than 1 billion. lv. subsidies, not being protected to sell their products when they want to and to determine the price they think is best for them. There are no guarantees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u79	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u80	Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, Mr. Danev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I can't agree with what the negotiators have said, because the definition of the Law as a lobbyist is absolutely false. If you can answer me in whose favor the Ministry of Agriculture is lobbying, I will be pleased. This Law, by the way, has played its role in your rights, since 1998, many of the things that have not been regulated have been regulated with it. With this Law we optimize the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture. The law played its part, as I said just now. I would like to remind you, as you are saying that there will be a restriction on the way to trade in grain, that the branch organisations that attended the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture supported the Law, I repeat, supported the Law. In this sense, I do not accept the definition that there is no reason. Reason is not lacking. The law's been under consideration for a long time. The law regulates matters, divides the functions of the ministry that has so far played the role of evaluator. On the one hand, they are taken over by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, and the rest, which is informative, or the one that collects data, goes to the Ministry of Agriculture. If you remember, at the end of the Law, we will get to it, there is a text in which we place an obligation of the Ministry of Agriculture at your insistence. The text has been revised. Do not worry, the law is good and it will show its appropriateness.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u81	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Colleagues, let me remind both you and previous colleagues that we are looking at a Draft at second reading, where specific texts are being discussed. All the speeches so far seem to be at first reading and discussing the philosophy of the Law. At least I got that impression. I ask you to discuss specific texts. We accept that it is my fault, as I have proposed to vote on the move and final provisions and you have therefore spread out like this. I would ask you to discuss from now on the specific texts that are under the Law, as this is the meaning of a second vote on the Bill. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u82	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Chairman, we are discussing the annulment of an entire law. That is why colleagues are talking about the meaning of this Law and what we are canceling.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u83	This is also discussed at first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u84	We must motivate why we are against the annulment of this Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u85	I'm sorry to interrupt, but this is done in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u86	I'm joining you in what Prof. Scully said. Bachvarova and I will once again say that this Law was adopted and created to avoid the crises we had in 1998. Here I would like to remind you that in 1993, in 1994, more than 20 years ago, a company made a huge fraud with many Bulgarian producers of cereals. This can happen again if this Law does not work if there is no control that introduces this Law and the requirements. With this I also answer to Mr. Hristov who is lobbying for this Law. It is clear that this Law and its annulment are in favour of those who own the large grain bases and who will not be controlled. With regard to the reasons that the VAT draining problems, because the large drain chains were right with cereals, we are all aware that this solution is temporary and from next year it is no longer there if it is not continued for another short period, so the problem will stand again. The information the National Revenue Agency used under this Law and the National Service will have nowhere to use it, and the problem will become even bigger. This will also affect the revenue in the fissure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u87	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the Member State of transit and final provisions, as well as the texts of the importers for § 1 and § 2 which are supported by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 73 against 16, abstention 3. The entries of the importer for the name of the "Transitional and final provisions', as well as §1 and §2 of the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u88	According to § 3 there is a proposal made by Svetla Bachvarova and a group of Members of the National Assembly "In Transitional and Final Provisions, the following amendments and additions are made in § 3: "1." A new para is being created. 3: The working and working arrangements with the experts of the Directorate-General for Grains and cereal products in the territorial units of the National Grains Office shall be governed under the conditions and in accordance with the procedure laid down in art. Article 123 of the Labour Code and Article 123 of the Labour Code. 87a of the Law on the Civil Service in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the District Staffs.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. Alinea 3 becomes al. 4, as after the expression "al." In addition, the Commission considers that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u89	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Danev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u90	Dear Mr. President, since you asked us to speak at second reading specifically in texts...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u91	That's what the Rules require.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u92	Our proposal is made in relation to the fact that the structure of the National Grain Service is divided into two, namely, one part is transferred to the Food Agency, these are the laboratories, and the rest are the experts who carry out the real control are exempt under another article of the Labour Code. Since my colleague Hristov said that there should be continuity and the spirit of the law is in the continuation of the control and activity of the National Service, I would agree with him if the Commission had really accepted our proposal, namely that the specialists should be transferred to the Regional Services of Agriculture and Forests, as the information that the district services will receive will not be able to process and work, as the specialists at the moment in the Regional Service of Agriculture and Foods are quite different. If those people who have had the internship since the establishment of the National Grain Service so far have been accepted into the structure of the district services and continue to carry out their activities, we would indeed agree to such subsequent control and to the changes proposed by this Law. I want an answer from my colleague, Hristov. In this regard, we insist on our proposal, which has not been adopted by the Commission, and we express our position on why we do not agree with the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u93	Thank you, Mr. Danev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other Members of Parliament on the paragraph under discussion? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 100 MPs: 23, against 47, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. I put the Commission's proposal to vote in favour of the text of the importer for § 3. Vote 108 MPs: 89 against 16, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u94	The Commission shall support the texts of the importer for § 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u95	Come in for a statement, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u96	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, precisely § 4 will create this legal chaos that I have spoken about regarding the change of the entire law on conservation and trade in grain. You have § 4, para. 3.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. You don't have the law. So you don't have a public storage facility, you don't have a licensed grain storage facility. How do you keep the documents they were created with? The whole law's been revoked. A § 4, para. 4 The guarantee fund established on the basis of the Law on conservation and trade in grain is terminated. I'm sure the Department of Agriculture doesn't know what's in the Guarantee Fund. It was established 1998 and its aim is to protect farmers who are affected by unfair commercial practices of the keepers. That is, when there is a problem, the Guarantee Fund is the one to save these farmers until the other proceedings are completed. If the target is 4 million from the Guarantee Fund to go to the state budget, say so. Because those who are participants in the Guarantee Fund, most of 1998, are gone. In the Order of the Council of Ministers?! That means exactly that the state will collect 4 million. No one will see a single penny of this Guarantee Fund from those who have invested them since 1998, then the Law has not been applied in such force to know that each authorised warehouse has its own deposit in this Guarantee Fund for the protection of those who put their grain into it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u97	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. We are voting on the enblock paragraphs 4 and 5 by importer. Vote 108 MPs: 90 against 15, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u98	Under § 6 there is a proposal from Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs, which is generally supported by the Commission. Proposal by the National Representative Ivan Stankov, made in the order of art. 80, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is generally supported by the Commission. Proposal by Svetla Bachvarova in the order of art. 80, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which the Commission supports in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Maria Belova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which the Commission supports. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In the Law on Implementation of the Common Organisation of the Markets in Agricultural Products of the European Union (prom., SG No. 96, 2006, amended, No. No. 16 of 2008, No. 10 and 82 of 2009, No. No. 26 and 80 of 2010, No. No. 8 of 2011, No. 99 of 2013 and No. 12 and 14 from 2015) the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Section VI with Article 5 shall be established in Chapter 5. 58n "58c: "Department VI" Grain Art. 58n. (1) Within 7 days from the entry into service or from the acquisition of the right of ownership or the use of a grain storage establishment, its owner or user shall submit to the relevant Regional Directorate of Agriculture at the location of the site a statement on a model of the location and capacity of the site. (2) Within 15 days of the submission of the declaration under para. 1 The Regional Directorate for Agriculture shall carry out a verification of the declaration lodged. Upon completion of the verification, the Regional Directorate of Agriculture shall issue a certificate to the person responsible for the grain storage site and enter it into a database for grain storage sites in the area. (3) Public warehouses for grain, grain stores and other grain storage sites licensed, respectively registered under the repealed Law on the conservation and marketing of grain, shall be entered in the databases for grain storage sites under para. 2 based on data from the registers under art. 13, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 28a of the repealed Law on conservation and trade in grain. (4) On the basis of the declarations under para. 1 and the data under para. 3 the districts.......................................................................................................... 1. the location and capacity of the grain storage sites; 2. the persons who manage the objects for storage of grain. (5) Based on the databases under para. 4 In the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is kept and stored a database for grain storage sites in the country and for those who manage them. Art. 58o. (1) The natural and legal persons holding grain storage sites shall submit by the end of each month to the respective Regional Directorate of Agriculture and Agriculture on a model of storage sites and the available amount of grain in them. Declarations may also be submitted electronically under the terms and conditions of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature. (2) Farmers shall submit at the end of each quarter to the respective Regional Directorate of Agriculture a model declaration on the quantity of grain produced and available. During the period from July to September, wheat declarations shall be submitted each month. (3) Farmers shall submit annually by 30 September to the respective Regional Directorate of Agriculture a model declaration for the quantities of rice harp produced and for rice stocks by species available on 31 August. (4) Rice mills shall submit annually by 30 September at the respective Regional Directorate of Agriculture a model declaration for rice stocks by species available on 31 August. Art. 58p. (1) The Regional "Sagrees" shall carry out checks for the submission and authenticity of the data entered in the declarations under art. 58o. (2) For carrying out the checks at the storage sites and the available quantities of grain in them, as well as of the grain produced and available, the Director of the respective Regional Directorate of Agriculture shall order the officials of the administration. In the performance of their duties, authorised staff shall be entitled to: 1. free access to the premises of the controlled object and to the areas on which grain is produced; 2. to request from the persons inspected information and documents necessary for carrying out the checks; 3. draw up acts establishing administrative infringements. (3) The persons who store and produce grain shall be obliged to provide the authorised staff of the Regional..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Art. 58p. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food annually conducts a representative classification of the harvested crop of wheat, barley, sunflower, maize and rice. Art. 58c. (1) The Minister of Agriculture and Food shall lay down by regulation the terms and conditions for: 1. submission of the declarations under art. 58n, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 58o; 2. keeping and storing the databases under art. 58n, para. 3 and 4; 3. exercise of control under art. 58n, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 58p, as well as for issuing certificates under art. 58n, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 4. holding a representative qualification under art. 58q; 5. generalisation, transmission and storage of the data obtained in carrying out the activities under point 5. 1-4. (2) The Ministry of Agriculture and Food shall publish on its website up-to-date information on the location and capacity of grain storage sites, as well as summary information on the country on: 1. the quantity of grain produced; 2. the available stored amount of grain; 3. the quality of the harvested wheat, barley, sunflower, corn, rice harp, rape and soya. ............................................... 2. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 63a: Art. 63a. (1) Whoever fails to fulfil an obligation under art. 58n, 58o or art. 58p, para. 3 or declare false data, is punished with a fine from 500 to 5000 BGN. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 was committed by a legal person or a sole trader, a penalty of 1000 to 15 000 BGN is imposed. (3) In the event of a repeated infringement, the fine or penalty shall be imposed in a double amount. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) A new para shall be created. 2: The actions for the identification of infringements under art. 63a shall be drawn up by the Director of the relevant Regional Directorate of Staff and the Penal Orders shall be issued by the Director of the Regional Directorate of Staff. (b) The current para. 2, 3 and 4 become respectively para. 3, 4 and 5. 4. Paragraph 1 of the Additional provision establishes the following: 29-31: It's 29. It is common wheat, durum wheat, maize, barley, rye, oats, triticale, sunflower, rape, rice harp and soybean. 30. The grain storage sites are the warehouses of grain businesses, public grain warehouses and grain warehouses licensed accordingly registered under the repealed Grain Storage and Trade Act, as well as other grain storage sites with a capacity of more than 200 tonnes. 31. The offence committed within one year of the entry into force of the criminal decree imposing a penalty on the violator for the same type of infringement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u99	Statements under § 6? I won't. We are voting § 6 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 101 MPs: 82 against 16, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u100	Under § 7 there is a proposal from Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which the Commission supports in principle. Proposal by the MP Rumen Hristov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 7: .................................................... In the Law on State Reserves and Wartime Stocks (prom., SG No. 9 of 2003, p.o.b., p.o. No. 37 of 2003, amended, No. 19, 69 and 105 of 2005; 30 and 102 of 2006; No. 54 of 2008; No. 35 of 2009; No. 16 of 2010 and No. 15 from 2013) in art. 10, para. 4 the words the National Grain and Feed Office shall be replaced by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u101	Paragraph 7 statements? I won't. We vote. Vote 95 MPs: 91, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u102	The Commission supports the wording of the importers for § 8, 9 and 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u103	We vote enblock three paragraphs. Vote 92 MPs: 77 against 13, abstention 2. The proposal is adopted, with which the bill at second reading. Moving on to: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CONSUMER PROTECTION LAW. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Report for second reading of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Mr. Kanev, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u104	Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of our Rules of Procedure, please vote to be admitted to the Chamber by the Ministry of Economy Daniela Vezeva
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u105	Colleagues, we're voting. Vote 84 MPs: 73 against 7, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u106	The Law on Consumer Protection is amended and supplemented by the Law on Consumer Protection. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u107	We vote. Vote 80 MPs: 75, against 3, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u108	Under § 1, there is a proposal from the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. There is a second proposal by Dimitar Bayraktarov, made in the order of art. 80, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 143 the following 1. A t is created. 8a: Eight o'clock. provides for an automatic extension of a fixed-term contract if the consumer does not wish to terminate the contract and the period within which he has to do so is too far from the date on which the term contract expires; 2. A new t. is created. 18: 18. does not allow the consumer to assess the economic consequences of the conclusion of the contract; 3. Previously on "T." 18 becomes t. 19. ...............................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u109	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 1 in the version of the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: 76 against 4, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u110	A proposal from the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. There is another proposal again by Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs, has also been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u111	We are voting for paragraphs 2 and 3 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: 80 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u112	There is a proposal from the MP Dimitar Bayraktarov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ Article 6 is inserted in Chapter 6. 148a: Art. 148a. Actions under this Chapter shall be dealt with in accordance with Chapter Twenty-Fifth of the CPK.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u113	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the new § 4 in the version of the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: for 83, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u114	There are no proposals under § 4 and § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 5 and § 5, which shall become § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u115	We are voting on the two paragraphs, which become 5 and 6 respectively on the Commission report. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u116	By § 6 we have a proposal from the MP Daniela Saveklieva and Teodora Georgieva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 7: .................................................... Chapter 9 establishes a new Section II with art. 181a-181c: "Department II" Alternative settlement of consumer disputes Art. 181a. (1) The provisions of this Section shall govern the requirements of procedures for the alternative settlement of national and cross-border disputes relating to obligations arising from sales or service contracts between a trader established in the territory of the European Union and a consumer residing in the territory of the European Union, carried out by an alternative dispute resolution body and ending with a solution, the imposition of a decision or the recovery of the parties to the dispute, in order to assist in finding a mutually agreed solution. (2) An alternative dispute resolution body (ARC body) shall be any body, irrespective of its name, which is established, engaged permanently in alternative dispute resolution and shall be included in the list under art. 181p. The ADR authority may be either single or collegiate. (3) The ADR authority shall be established if it is administered by: 1. a natural person at the place where he is engaged in alternative dispute resolution; 2. a legal person or an association of natural or legal persons at the place where they are engaged in alternative dispute resolution or where their registered office is established; 3. a body of state authority or another public institution at the place where they are located. Art. 181b. The provisions of this Section shall not apply to: procedures before dispute resolution bodies in which the natural persons responsible or involved in dispute resolution are employed or fully compensated by a particular trader; procedures for dealing with consumer complaints under rules developed by the trader; services of general interest provided by the State or on behalf of the State not having an economic character; disputes between traders; direct negotiations between a consumer and a trader to resolve a dispute between them; legal proceedings initiated in the course of which a voluntary settlement of the dispute has been initiated; procedures initiated by a trader against a consumer; health services provided by healthcare professionals to patients with a view to assessing, maintaining or restoring their health, including prescriptions, medical prescriptions and the provision of medicinal products and medical devices; 9. state universities or public schools after completed secondary education. Art. 181c. (1) The ADR authority shall consider national disputes between consumers and traders arising from obligations arising from concluded, including online, sales contracts, or for the provision of services, including the sale of digital content or the provision of it for payment. (2) The ADR authority shall also consider cross-border disputes between consumers and traders arising from contracts concluded for online sales or services by using an online dispute resolution platform as required by Regulation (EU) No 524/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2013 on online dispute resolution and amending Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 and Directive 2009/22/EC (the User ODR Regulation)(OJ L 165/1 of 18 June 2013.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 524/2013'. (3) A national dispute shall be any dispute arising in connection with a contract of sale or provision of services where, at the time when the consumer orders the goods or services, he resides in the same Member State of the European Union where the trader is established. (4) A cross-border dispute shall be any dispute arising in connection with a contract for sale or for the provision of services where, at the time the consumer orders the goods or services, he resides in a Member State of the European Union other than that in which the trader is established. (5) A trader shall be established if he is: 1. a natural person at the place where he carries out his activity; 2. a company, another legal person or association of natural or legal persons at the place where the headquarters, central management is located or where it operates, including through a branch, representation or other structure. Art. 181. (1) The ADR authority shall ensure that its alternative dispute settlement procedure [[Agency procedure]] is accessible to consumers and they may refer to it a dispute against a trader established in the territory of the country where the dispute falls within the scope of this procedure. (2) The ADR body shall deal with disputes between consumers and traders subject to the requirements of the ADR procedure and the principles of expertise, independence, impartiality, transparency, effectiveness, fairness, freedom and legality. (3) The ADR authority shall: 1. there are procedural rules for work which meet the requirements of this section; 2. maintain an updated website that provides the Parties with easy access to information on the ADR procedure and which allows users to submit complaints and the necessary documents online; 3. provide the parties at their request with the information referred to in paragraph 3. 2 concerning the ADR procedure on a durable medium; 4. enable the consumer to lodge a complaint at the place where it is established, by mail, fax or other means (offline), where applicable; 5. make it possible to exchange information between the Parties by electronic means or, where applicable, by postal means; 6. consider national and cross-border disputes falling within the scope of art. 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 524/2013; 7. ensure that the processing of personal data complies with the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. (4) The ADR body shall draw up procedural rules for the work by which it determines the ADR procedure and the final act by which it ends with a decision, the imposition of a decision or the collection of the parties to the dispute in order to assist in finding a mutually agreed solution. (5) The ADR authority may refuse to examine a consumer's dispute against a trader where some of the following grounds are provided for in its rules of procedure: 1. the consumer has not tried to resolve the dispute directly with the trader; 2. the dispute is minor or unfounded; 3. the dispute shall be dealt with or dealt with by another ADR authority, pre-trial or court authorities; 4. the complaint shall have a lower or higher value than a predetermined lower and/or upper cash threshold; 5. the consumer has not lodged a complaint with the ADR authority within a predetermined period, which may not be shorter than one year from the date on which the consumer has sent the complaint to the trader; 6. consideration of the dispute will seriously make the work of the ADR authority difficult due to its factual and legal complexity. (6) When the ADR authority refuses to consider a dispute on the basis of any of the grounds under para. 5 provided for in its rules of procedure, it must justify the refusal to both parties no later than three weeks after receipt of the complaint. (7) The grounds for refusal under para. 5 provided for in the procedural rules for the operation of the ADR authority shall not prevent the consumer from accessing an ADR procedure, including in the case of cross-border disputes. (8) Where the ADR authority has set out in its procedural rules for working lower and/or upper monetary threshold below and/or above the value of which it does not deal with consumer complaints, the thresholds set shall not prevent access to an ADR procedure. Art. 181e. (1) Natural persons involved in disputes in an ADR procedure shall be independent, impartial and possess the necessary expertise. (2) Natural persons under para. 1: 1. must possess the necessary knowledge and skills in the field of out-of-court or judicial settlement of consumer disputes, as well as general knowledge of law; 2. shall be appointed for a sufficiently long period to ensure the independence of their actions and not be able to be dismissed from office without due cause; 3. may not receive instructions from the parties to the dispute or from their representatives; 4. receive remuneration which does not depend on the outcome of the ADR procedure; 5. provide the ADR authority without undue delay with information on any circumstances which may affect or may be considered as affecting their independence and impartiality or which lead to a conflict of interest with any of the parties to the dispute which they decide. (3) Natural persons under para. 1 are obliged to provide the information under para. 2, p. 5 at any time during the ADR procedure, except where the ADR authority is sole. (4) To ensure the independence and impartiality of individuals for whom there is a circumstance under para. 2, p. 5, the ADR authority shall include in its procedural rules one or more of the following requirements: 1. the natural person is replaced by another natural person to conduct the ADR procedure; 2. the natural person shall refrain from participating in the ADR procedure and, where possible, propose to the parties to refer the dispute to another competent ADR authority; 3. the natural person shall continue to participate in the ADR procedure if the parties to the dispute have not objected after having been informed of the circumstances and of their right to object. (5) Where the ADR authority is single, only para shall apply. 4 t. Two and three. (6) Where the ADR body is a college body, the number of individuals representing the interests of consumers and traders shall be equal. (7) Natural persons participating in the composition of a college ADR body shall receive remuneration from the party from whom they are employed and whose interests they represent. (8) Where natural persons are employed or paid entirely by a professional organisation or by an association of traders in which the trader is a member of a dispute party, the relevant organisation or association of traders must have a separate budget which is intended for the participation of natural persons in the work of the ADR body and is sufficient for the performance of their tasks. (9) The provision of para. 8 shall not apply where natural persons participate in a college ADR body composed of an equal number of representatives of a professional organisation or association of traders from which they are employed or from which they receive remuneration and representatives of consumer associations. Art. f. The ADR authority shall respect the principle of transparency by publishing on its website and providing on a durable medium on request, or by other appropriate means public access to clear and easily understandable information concerning: 1. contact details, including e-mail address and e-mail address; 2. its recognition as ADR body by the Minister of Economy and its inclusion in the list referred to in Article 2. 181p; 3. the natural persons who direct or participate in the ADR procedure, the manner and duration of their appointment; 4. membership in ADR networks facilitating cross-border dispute resolution, where applicable; 5. disputes which are competent to deal with, including monetary thresholds, if provided for in the procedural rules of employment; 6. the procedural rules for work, the final act ending the ADR procedure and the grounds on which it may refuse to deal with a dispute under art. 181d, para. 5; 7. the languages in which complaints may be submitted to the ADR authority and in which the procedure is conducted; 8. the sources of law that can be used to resolve the dispute (such as legal rules, codes of conduct, principles of justice, impartiality); 9. the requirements to be met by the parties before the dispute is dealt with, if any, including the requirement that the consumer has tried to resolve the dispute directly with the trader; 10. the availability of the possibility for the parties to withdraw from the ADR procedure; 11. the costs to the parties to the dispute, if any, including the rules on the allocation of those costs at the end of the ADR procedure; 12. the average duration of the ADR procedure; 13. the legal consequences of the outcome of the ADR procedure and, where applicable, penalties for non-compliance with a decision which is binding on the parties to the dispute; 14. the executive power of the decision reached under the ADR procedure, if any. Art. 181g. (1) The ADR authority shall prepare an annual report on its alternative dispute resolution activity, which shall be published on its website, shall be made available on a durable medium on request or by other appropriate means to ensure public access to it. (2) The annual activity report under para. 1 shall include the following information regarding national and cross-border disputes: 1. the number of complaints received and the subject of their disputes; 2. systematic or significant problems that arise frequently and lead to disputes between consumers and traders; this information may also contain recommendations for preventing or solving such problems in order to increase trade professional standards and facilitate the exchange of information and good practices; 3. a percentage of the disputes the ADR authority has refused to consider and the percentage of the individual grounds for the refusals made under art. 181d, para. 5; 4. percentage of terminated ADR procedures and the reasons for their termination if known; 5. average duration of the ADR procedure; 6. degree of implementation of the decisions of the ADR procedure if known; 7. cooperation of the ADR authority within the networks of ADR authorities facilitating cross-border dispute resolution, where applicable. Art. 181h. The rules of procedure of the ADR authority shall be effective and comply with the following requirements: 1. the ADR procedure shall be easily accessible, including online, to both parties to the dispute, wherever they are located; 2. the parties shall have access to the ADR procedure without having to use the services of a lawyer or any other lawyer; the procedure shall not deprive the parties of their right to seek an independent opinion or to be represented or assisted by a third party at any stage of the procedure; 3. the ADR procedure shall be free of charge or access to it shall be linked to minor costs for consumers; 4. where an ADR authority has been brought up with a complaint by a consumer, notify the parties to the dispute as soon as it has received all the documents relating to the complaint; 5. the outcome of the ADR procedure shall be disclosed at the latest within 90 calendar days from the date on which the ADR authority received all the documents of the complaint; in disputes of factual and legal complexity, the ADR authority may, at its discretion, extend that period, informing the parties and setting the time limit necessary to resolve the dispute. Art. 181th. (1) The rules of procedure of the ADR authority shall be fair and shall ensure that the parties to the dispute: 1. have the possibility to express their position within a reasonable period of time, receive from the ADR authority all arguments, evidence, documents and facts which are submitted by the other Party, any statements and opinions of experts, and to provide their comments thereon; 2. are informed that they are not obliged to use the services of a lawyer or another lawyer, may seek an independent opinion or be represented or assisted by a third party at any stage of the procedure; 3. have been notified of the outcome of the ADR procedure in writing or in a durable medium and have received the reasons on which the decision is based; 4. have the possibility to withdraw at any stage of the procedure if they are not satisfied with the results or the manner in which the procedure is carried out, and to obtain information of that right before the procedure is initiated; where the trader is required to participate in the procedure, the requirements referred to in the first sentence shall apply only to the consumer; 5. before adopting or implementing the proposed decision, they are informed that: (a) may accept, refuse or execute the decision; (b) Participation in the ADR procedure shall not preclude the possibility for judicial protection; (c) the decision may differ from a judgment given by a court; 6. before adopting or implementing the proposed decision are informed of its legal consequences; 7. have a reasonable period of thought before adopting the proposed solution or agreement by mutual agreement. (2) The requirements of para. 1, t. 4-7 shall only apply to an ADR procedure where the dispute is resolved by proposing a solution. (3) The requirements of para. 1, t. 4-7 shall apply only to the consumer where, under the procedural rules of operation of the ADR authority, the proposed decision becomes mandatory for the trader after its acceptance by the consumer. Art. 181k. (1) The ADR authority shall respect the principle of freedom and shall not deprive the consumer of the possibility of judicial protection. (2) In procedures in which the ADR authority shall resolve a dispute between a consumer and a trader by imposing a decision, the decision shall be binding if the parties have previously been informed of its binding nature and have expressly stated their consent. The explicit consent of the trader shall not be required if the procedural rules of operation of the ADR authority provide that decisions are binding on the trader. (3) When a consumer and a trader conclude a dispute settlement agreement by an ADR body before any dispute has arisen between them and it deprives the consumer of the possibility of judicial protection, that agreement shall not bind the consumer. Art. 181L. The ADR authority which resolves a dispute between a consumer and a trader by imposing a decision shall respect the principle of legality where: 1. there is no conflict of law, the decision must not deprive the consumer of the possibility of judicial protection unless it has been informed in advance of its mandatory nature and has not expressly stated its consent under the law of the Member State of the European Union in whose territory the consumer and the trader are normally resident; 2. there is a conflict of laws and the law determined in accordance with art. 6 (1) and (2) of Regulation (EC) No 593/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 June 2008 on the law applicable to contractual obligations (Rome I) (OJ L 177/6 of 4 July 2008.), the decision must not deprive the consumer of the protection granted to him by provisions of the law of the Member State of the European Union in whose territory he normally resides and which cannot be revoked by means of an agreement; 3. there is a conflict of laws and the law determined in accordance with art. 5, para. 1 and 3 of the Convention on the Law applicable to contractual obligations opened for signature in Rome on 19 June 1980, drawn up in Rome on 19 June 1980. (Rated by law............................................................................................... 24 from 2007), the decision must not deprive the consumer of the protection granted to him by the provisions of the law of the Member State of the European Union in whose territory he normally resides and which cannot be revoked by agreement. Art. 181 meters. Where the Parties use an ADR procedure which does not provide for a decision to be imposed, the limitation periods for judicial protection shall not expire until the procedure is completed. Art. 181n. (1) Traders shall provide to consumers information on ADR authorities within the scope of their activity and on ADR authorities to which they have undertaken to participate or are obliged to use. The information shall include the address of the website of the ADR authorities concerned. (2) The information under para. 1 shall be made available in a clear, understandable and easily accessible manner on the trader's website, where available, and, where applicable, in the general terms of the sales contract or in the service contract offered by the trader. (3) When the dispute is referred to the consumer directly to the trader, but has not been resolved between them, the trader shall be obliged to provide the consumer on paper or on another durable medium with the information under para. 1 indicating whether it will use the relevant ADR authorities. (4) Traders entering into online sales or services contracts as well as online trading venues established within the European Union shall place on their websites an electronic link to the online dispute resolution platform (ODR platform) that is easily accessible to consumers. (5) Traders who conclude contracts for online sales or services shall indicate their e-mail addresses for contact with them. (6) Traders who conclude online sales contracts or services and who have undertaken to participate or are obliged to use one or more ADR authorities to resolve disputes with consumers shall inform consumers of the existence of the ODR platform and of the possibility to use it to resolve their disputes. They shall publish an electronic link to the ODR platform on their website and, if the proposal for a sale or service contract is made via e-mail, indicate that connection in the communication itself. Where applicable, information shall also be provided under the general terms and conditions of online sales contracts or services. Could Daniela Saveklieva have just replaced me?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u117	Yes, of course. As long as he reads as well as you do. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u118	(7) Where a trader designates an ADR authority in a Member State of the European Union other than where it is established, the dispute shall be settled in accordance with the rules of procedure of that body. The trader is obliged to provide the user with information about this body in accordance with para. 1 and 3............................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u119	Art. 181o. (1) The Minister of Economy shall be a competent authority for the recognition of ADR authorities meeting the requirements of this Section and including them in the list under art. 181p. (2) The Minister of Economy shall exercise control to comply with the requirements of Regulation (EU) No 524/2013. (3) The Commission for Consumer Protection shall operate in alternative dispute resolution through conciliation committees and shall assist and provide information on how consumers may refer to the conciliation committees or other ADR bodies. (4) The European Consumer Centre of the Commission for Consumer Protection shall be a contact point according to art. 7 of Regulation (EU) No 524/2013 and assists consumers to gain access to an ADR body in another Member State of the European Union competent to deal with cross-border dispute relating to obligations arising from sales contracts or services provision. (5) The European Consumer Centre of the Commission for Consumer Protection shall assist and provide information to consumers as required by art. 7 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 524/2013. (6) The European Consumer Centre of the Consumer Protection Commission shall provide every two years to the Minister of Economy and to the European Commission a report under art. Article 7 (2) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 524/2013. Art. 181p. The Minister of Economy approves by order, a list of the bodies recognised as ADR authorities in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Art. 181p. (1) A body meeting the requirements of this Section and wishing to be recognised as an ADR body and included in the list under art. 181p, submit to the Minister of Economy a written application containing the following information: 1. name of the body, contact details and address of its website; 2. legal organisational form (certification of registration, current status or other documents), means of financing, including information on natural persons who are responsible or involved in an ADR-autobiography procedure and a diploma for completed education, their remuneration, the period for which they are appointed and by whom they are employed; 3. procedural rules for the operation of the ADR authority; 4. amount of fees for the parties to the dispute, if any; 5. average duration of the ADR procedure; 6. languages in which users may lodge complaints and in which the ADR procedure is conducted; 7. subject to disputes falling within the scope of the ADR procedure; 8. grounds on which the authority may refuse to consider a dispute under art. 181d, para. 5; 9. whether it meets the conditions and requirements of an ADR authority under this Section. (2) To the application under para. 1 A statement of information under para. 1 shall apply. 1, t. 7, motivated statement of information under para. 1, t. 9 as well as other documents containing the information under para. 1 to be signed by the persons representing the authority. Art. 181c. (1) The Minister of Economy within two months of the date of submission of the application and the documents under art. 181q shall assess whether the authority submitting the application meets the conditions and requirements of this section and shall notify it of its decision. (2) In carrying out judgment under para. 1 shall also be taken into account to comply with the requirements of art. 181d, para. 7 and 8. (3) When irregularities are identified in the information provided and/or in the documents under art. 181p Minister of Economy gives instructions and sets a deadline for their removal. (4) If irregularities are not removed within the period under para. H, the application shall be left without consideration. Art. 181st. (1) The list under Art.181p shall contain the following information: 1. name, contact details and address of the websites of the ADR authorities concerned; 2. amount of fees for the parties to the dispute collected by the ADR authorities concerned, if any; 3. languages in which users may lodge complaints and in which the ADR procedure of the ADR authorities concerned is conducted; 4. subject to disputes falling within the scope of the ADR procedure of the ADR authorities concerned; 5. disputes falling within the scope of the ADR authorities concerned, including the economic sectors and their activities; 6. whether a physical presence of the parties or their representatives is necessary, where applicable, and whether the ADR procedure is conducted or may be carried out in oral or written form; 7. the mandatory or optional nature of the outcome of the ADR procedure of the relevant authority; 8. grounds on which the relevant ADR authorities may refuse to consider a dispute under art. 181d, para. 5. (2) The Minister of Economy shall provide the European Commission with the list of recognised ADR bodies, as well as the information under para. 1. (3) In the event of a change in the information referred to in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1, t. 1-8 The ADR authority shall immediately inform the Minister of Economy of any changes that have taken place. (4) In the cases under para. 3, the Minister of Economy shall update the list of recognised ADR bodies and provide it to the European Commission together with up-to-date information under para. 1. (5) When the Minister of Economy finds that an ADR body included in the list under art. 181p, ceases to comply with the requirements of this Section or with the requirements of Regulation (EU) No 524/2013, informs it of the non-compliance found and gives instructions for their removal within a specified time limit. (6) Where an ADR body included in the list under art. 181p, do not comply with the instructions under para. 5, the Minister of Economy shall delete it from the list of recognised ADR authorities within three months and provide the updated list to the European Commission. (7) The Minister of Economy may at any time require an ADR authority to provide up-to-date information under art. 181p. Art. 181y. The ADR authority shall be obliged every two years from the date of recognition and its inclusion in the list referred to in Article 1. 181p to prepare and provide the Minister of Economy with a report on the activity carried out, which includes the following information: 1. the number of complaints received and the subject of their disputes; 2. percentage of terminated ADR procedures and the reasons for their termination; 3. average duration of ADR procedures for dispute resolution; 4. percentage of the implementation of the decisions of ADR procedure, if known; 5. systemic or significant problems that arise frequently and lead to disputes between consumers and traders; this information may also contain recommendations for preventing or solving such problems; 6. an assessment of the effectiveness of cooperation within the networks of ADR authorities facilitating the resolution of cross-border disputes, where applicable; 7. evaluation of the effectiveness of the ADR procedure and possible ways to improve its functioning; 8. training of natural persons responsible or participating in ADR procedure under a programme under art. 181f, para. 8 where applicable.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u120	Art. 181f. (1) The Minister of Economy shall draw up and provide the European Commission with a report on the development and functioning of ADR bodies containing: 1. best practices of ADR authorities; 2. deficiencies which hinder the functioning of ADR authorities in relation to national and cross-border disputes through statistical data, where applicable; 3. recommendations for improving the functioning and effectiveness of ADR authorities, where applicable. (2) The Minister of Economy shall publish on the website of the Ministry: 1. the reports under para. 1; 2. the list referred to in art. 181p; 3. an electronic link to the website of the European Commission on which a list of recognised ADR authorities of the Member States of the European Union is published; 4. electronic connection to the ODR platform. (3) The Minister of Economy shall provide public access to the list under para. 2, p. 3 and on a durable medium. (4) The ADR authorities and the European Consumer Centre of the Consumer Protection Commission shall publish on their websites an electronic link to the website of the European Commission on which the list of recognised ADR authorities of the Member States of the European Union is published and shall provide an electronic link to the ODR platform. Where possible, they shall provide public access to the list of recognised bodies and on a durable medium. (5) The Consumer Protection Commission shall encourage consumer associations and traders to publish on their websites an electronic link to the website of the European Commission on which the list of recognised ADR authorities of the Member States of the European Union is published, to make it publicly available and to provide an electronic link to the ODR platform. (6) The Consumer Protection Commission shall encourage consumer associations and traders to raise awareness of ADR authorities and their procedural rules of employment and shall promote their use by consumers and traders. (7) The Consumer Protection Commission shall encourage ADR authorities to train natural persons responsible or participating in an ADR procedure and to increase their expertise and qualifications. (8) The Consumer Protection Commission shall monitor the quality and consult training programmes of ADR authorities when training natural persons responsible or participating in ADR procedures. Art. 181x. (1) The ADR authority shall exchange experience and cooperate with other ADR authorities, including with ADR authorities of other Member States of the European Union, in resolving cross-border disputes. The ADR authority shall regularly exchange information on best practices in dealing with cross-border and national consumer disputes. (2) The Consumer Protection Commission shall encourage ADR authorities to join a network of bodies for alternative resolution of cross-border consumer disputes in specific sectors of the economy when such a network is established within the European Union. Art. 181. (1) The Minister of Economy shall promote cooperation between ADR authorities, the Consumer Protection Commission and other state bodies responsible for the implementation of consumer protection legislation. (2) The cooperation under para. 1 includes: 1. mutual exchange of information on best practices in certain sectors of the economy for which consumers have repeatedly filed complaints; 2. provision by the Commission for consumer protection and other public authorities responsible for the application of consumer protection legislation to technical expertise and information necessary for ADR authorities, where available. (3) In carrying out the cooperation and exchange of information under para. 2 The Commission for Consumer Protection and other public authorities responsible for the implementation of consumer protection legislation shall comply with the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. (4) The Commission for Consumer Protection, other public authorities responsible for the implementation of consumer protection legislation and ADR authorities shall comply with the requirements for the protection of professional, production or commercial secrecy and shall not disclose any other information which has become known to them in or on the occasion of the performance of their duties.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u121	Statements? I won't. We vote § 7. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u122	Under paragraphs 8 to 11, the Commission shall support the text of the importer. The Commission has no proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u123	Thank you. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 8 to 11 on the Commission report, which shall be supported, respectively, by paragraphs 7 to 10 by importer. We're voting Anblok. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u124	According to § 11, there is a proposal from Daniela Saveklieva and Teodora Georgieva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 183b: Art. 183b. (1) General and sectoral conciliation committees shall also include Vice-Presidents who shall exercise the powers of the Chairs in their absence, upon their removal on grounds of conflict of interest or incompatibility, or where they are entrusted with the establishment of conciliation proceedings on applications received. (2) The Vice-Presidents shall meet the requirements of art. 183, para. 2, for the general conciliation committees, or the requirements of art. 183a, para. 3, for the sectoral conciliation committees. (3) The number of vice-presidents shall be determined by the President of the Commission for Consumer Protection, for the common conciliation committees, and by the relevant supervisory or regulatory authorities, for sectoral conciliation committees, depending on the subject matter of the dispute.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u125	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 12 on the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: 79 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u126	The next paragraph we have a proposal from the MPs Daniela Saveklieva and Teodora Georgieva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 183c: Art. 183c. (1) The President of the Commission for Consumer Protection shall include in the list referred to in Article 1. 182, para. 8 at least three representatives of: 1. The Commission for Consumer Protection (for sectoral conciliation committees); 2. the associations of consumers; 3. the associations of traders, industry organisations or the Chamber of traders in the sector concerned. (2) The remuneration costs of the members offered for participation in the general and sectoral conciliation committees under this section shall be borne by the Commission for Consumer Protection, the relevant regulatory or supervisory authority, the consumer associations and the associations of traders, industry organisations or the Chamber of Commerce who designated them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u127	Statements? I won't. We vote § 13. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u128	Perhaps we should vote, Madam President, because under Paragraph 13 we have no proposals. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u129	Thus, from § 14 to § 26 of the report are texts supported by the Commission, with numbering, respectively, shifted by one paragraph. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u130	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u131	I put to the vote paragraphs 14 to 26, including on the Commission report, which are respectively the supported texts from § 13 to § 25 by importer. We vote on all these paragraphs. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The motion has been adopted unanimously. We'll take 30 minutes off, and at 12:00 we'll continue with § 27. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u132	Colleagues, the meeting is ongoing. Mr. Kanev, we will proceed with § 27. Before that, a declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u133	Madam President, honourable Members! The Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front strongly objects to the scandalous attempts to violate the law once again and to save illegal Gypsy buildings in the square. "Kremikovtsi" in the village of Marchevo, municipality of Garmen. The buildings in question have been proven illegal. Most of them are built on occupied private land. For them there are issued valid legal orders for removal. These illegal buildings have been a symbol of the ongoing for more than 20 years of political habberishness and are the cause of severe ethnic domestic crime. We absolutely do not accept the allegations that the European Court of Human Rights had decided not to remove illegal buildings in the area in question. The Kremikovtsi. The European Union for Human Rights has not decided anything like this. I strongly point out that he did not decide anything like this, but sent a letter of recommendation. We remind honourable Members and the honourable Bulgarian Government that the European Union for Human Rights is not an institution within the meaning of the Treaty on European Union, but a body of the Council of Europe within the meaning of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. The suggestion that the European Union is almost protecting illegal houses is false, misleading and false. There is still no signed agreement on the accession of the European Union to the Convention precisely because of disputes of compatibility with Union law. Even if a case is brought before the European Court of Human Rights against Bulgaria, an activity which supports the Bulgarian Helsinki Committee and the rest of the European Union's rights defenders, we demand that the Bulgarian government draw up its motivated thesis to prove the legality of the issued orders to remove illegal buildings. We argue that the European Court of Human Rights' letter is of a desirable nature and does not have any power of decision. We find the thoughts of some anonymous European officials, exposed in epistolial form, uninformed and incompatible with the specific situation in Bulgaria. We demand that this letter, as well as the position of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, be adopted for information and that the procedure for removing illegal buildings be completed. We strongly object to the local administration and the state authorities taking into account this message and the suggestions that are being made around it. We demand that the Council of Ministers react immediately and send these two institutions complete information on all cases of domestic ethnic crime and problems created by the inhabitants of these illegal ghettos. We demand that the Council of Ministers make a complete reference to the address registrations and property status of the inhabitants of the illegal buildings, because we are convinced, and there is information that they did not appear in the gardens around the village of Garmen, but came from somewhere where they probably own real estate or parts of real estate. We insist that the restoration of the legality and compliance with and implementation of the Bulgarian laws should not be postponed for all Bulgarian citizens. We argue that the suspension of the removal of illegal buildings on the basis of such semi-anonymous letters will constitute discrimination against the rights and legitimate interests of the other Bulgarian citizens. We remind you that these are the same methods used to stop the removal of illegal gypsy buildings in Bulgaria, which are authors of another peach against Bulgaria. As a result, Bulgarian citizens under these illegal buildings cannot use their legitimate private property for which they pay the respective taxes. We are surprised that the European Court of Human Rights did not rule on such urgent preventive measures, I quote: when the French authorities destroyed and continued to destroy the gypsies in their territory without providing housing to those affected. We find this behaviour to be unacceptable and non-European double standard and political hypocrisy. We are not surprised that the Helsinki Committee and their similar pseudo-rights bodies have not referred to either the European Court of Human Rights or the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe for the discrimination of gypsies by the French authorities. They do it against Bulgaria because they expect the Bulgarian government to squat again. We do not believe that this is a omission or lack of information because cities such as Lil, Paris, Bordeaux and other French cities are much closer to Strasbourg than the municipality of Garmen. The patriotic front refers to the European Court of Human Rights as discriminatory on its own criteria the conduct of French and Belgian local authorities when they remove illegal Gypsy buildings on their territory. We ask: what prescriptions and letters did he send to the mayors and municipal councils of Paris, Lille, Lyon and other European cities? If such prescriptions are not sent, why and when will they be sent? Why is the archin relation to Bulgaria different from Belgium and France? At the same time, through a member of the European Parliament, the Patriotic Front asked the European Commission about ethnic discrimination against Bulgarian citizens whose property rights and legitimate interests were violated by the inhabitants of these illegal buildings. We stand firmly behind the demands of residents and taxpayers of the municipality of Garmen, sq. "Orlandovtsi" village of Mechka, Plevensko, sq. The Faculty in the capital, Vietnamese dormitories, Katunitsa and dozens of other settlements. Their protest against the legalization of such structures and lawlessness in the country is completely fair. We are demanding that the land occupied by the inhabitants of these caves be released. The patriotic front is adamant that the Bulgarian government cannot succumb to any external or internal suggestion and must ensure compliance with the law and order in the Republic of Bulgaria. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u134	Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov. Moving on to § 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u135	The last paragraph we adopted is § 25, which becomes § 26. Under § 26, there is a proposal of the MPs Daniela Saveklieva and Teodora Georgieva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 26, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: The additional provisions shall make the following additions: 1. Paragraph 12b, 12c, 12d, 12e, 12f and 12g are inserted: ...... 12b............................................................................ In the event of a contradiction between the provisions of Chapter 9a, Section II and the law of the European Union or of the Bulgarian legislation introducing the requirements of European Union law which contain special requirements concerning the out-of-court settlement of disputes by consumers against traders, the provisions of this Law shall apply unless otherwise provided for in Chapter 9a, Section II. § 12c. In the event of a contradiction between the provisions of Chapter 9a, Section II and another law which contains special requirements concerning the out-of-court resolution of disputes by consumers against traders and which does not introduce requirements of European Union law, this law shall apply unless otherwise provided for in Chapter 9a, Section II. § 12d. The provisions of Chapter 9, Section II, shall be without prejudice to the provisions of the Mediation Act introducing the requirements of Directive 2008/52/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2008 on certain aspects of mediation in civil and commercial matters (OJ L 136/3 of 24 May 2008).). § 12e. The provisions of Chapter 9a, Section II shall apply subject to the requirements of delegated and implementing acts adopted by the European Commission under Regulation (EU) No 524/2013. § 12f. The order of Art. 181n does not prevent consumer information obligations concerning out-of-court protection procedures contained in European Union law and applied in addition. § 12g. The order of Art. 181m is without prejudice to the provisions on limitation periods in international agreements to which the Member States of the European Union are countries. 2. In § 13 are created t. 44 and 45: It's 44. The term of office is the concept in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 593/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 June 2008 on the law applicable to contractual obligations (Rome I). 45. An alternative dispute settlement procedure is a procedure for the out-of-court settlement of consumer disputes which meets the requirements of this Law and is carried out by an alternative dispute resolution body. 3. In § 13a is created t. 13: "13." Directive 201 H/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2013 on alternative dispute resolution of consumer disputes and amending Regulation (EC) No 206/2004 and Directive 2009/22/EC (Publishing Directive).
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u136	This t. 13 is to § 13a. Statements? I won't. We vote on the Commission's version of the importer for § 26, which in the Commission's report becomes § 27. They voted 71 MPs: for 71, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 27 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u137	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 28. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 30. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 31.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u138	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the division of the "Transitional and Final Provisions'; paragraphs 27 to 30 by importer, including those which become paragraphs 28 to 31 of the Commission report. Vote 71 MPs: for 69, no objection, abstention 2. The name of the division "Transitional and final provisions' and paragraphs 28 to 31 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u139	Proposal from the MPs Saveklieva and Georgieva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 31 and § 32 which become § 32 and § 33 respectively: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law for the provision of financial services at a distance (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 21, para. 2 words.............................................................................. 182.... 184............................................................................................................................................................. ................................................ In the Law on e-commerce (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 22 words "Section III" shall be replaced by "Section IV."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u140	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create paragraphs 31 and 32 together with the text proposed under the Commission report. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The Commission's proposal to create paragraphs 31 and 32 together with the corresponding text under the Commission report has been adopted. This was also adopted by the Second Voting Bill. Moving on to: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR WATERS. Importer of the Council of Ministers, on 7 April 2015, adopted at the first vote on 30 April 2015. The Commission's report will introduce us to the people representative Stanislav Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prior to the examination of the report, I ask for a procedure for admission in the hall of Mr. Pavel Gudzherov "Deputy Minister of Environment and Water; Mr. Assen Lichev "Director of the Department of Water Management" in the Ministry of Environment and Water and Mr. Radoslav Rusev "advising the Minister of Regional Development."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u142	Please vote on the proposal made by the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov for admission to the hall of the persons he has designated. Vote 79 MPs: 74 against 3, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to invite the designated persons.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u143	Report for the second reading of the Law amending and supplementing the Water Act. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Water Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u144	Statements? I won't. I vote on the text of the importer on the name of the Law, as well as paragraphs 1 and 2, which the Commission supports. Vote 79 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 1. The text of the importer on the name of the Law and the texts of paragraphs 1 and 2 supported by the Commission have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u145	Paragraph 3? a proposal of the MPs Borislav Velikov and Vili Lilkov. The Commission does not support the proposal under para. 1 and para. 2, p. 2 and 3 and supports the proposal under para. 2, p. 1, t. 4 et c. 5. A proposal from the MP Jevdet Chakarov. The Commission does not support the proposal. The proposals of the MPs Velikov and Lilkov, which the Commission does not support, are under § 1. The following amendments and additions are made in § 3: 1.1. In the newly created art. 10e at the end of paragraph 1 the point is replaced by a comma and the following text is added: As well as a representative of the Bulgarian Water Association. 1.2. In the newly created art. 10e Paragraph 2 is edited as follows: The Council referred to in paragraph 1 shall: The first point is supported; the unsupported points are: "2." discuss and propose changes to legislation in order to integrate water policy and industry policies into the water sector and ensure unity and coherence between institutions in water management, including preventing and overcoming the effects of floods. 3. coordinate measures to address the effects of floods and other adverse phenomena. Proposal of the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov: I propose in § 3, which creates a new art. 10e to make the following amendments: 1. in Art. 1. 10d, para. 2, p. 1 the text of the river basin management plans and the text to be deleted; 2. in art. 10d, para. 2, p. 2 the text of the programmes of measures under art. 156n and The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u146	And the text of the Commission's version to read about § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u147	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 3 and shall propose the following wording: .................................................. Article 1 is inserted in Chapter 1. 10e: Art. 10e. (1) The integration of water policy and industry policies in the water sector shall be carried out by the Water Coordination Council, including the Minister of Environment and Water, the Minister of Agriculture and Food, the Minister of Energy, the Minister of Economy, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, the Minister of Health, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Minister of Education and Science or officials authorised by them, and a representative of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) The Council under para. 1: 1. ensure coordination of activities by: (a) the development of river basin management plans and flood risk management plans; (b) financing and implementation of the programmes by measures under art. 156n and the measures to achieve the objectives of reducing the likelihood and adverse consequences of flooding under art. 146k, para. 2, p. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. every year by the end of March discusses the implementation of national programmes for river basin management plans and flood risk management plans in individual sectors and sets out the necessary measures proposed by the Minister of Environment and Water for adoption by the Council of Ministers; 3. examine reports from regional managers on the state of the water infrastructure and the results of control activities in the field. (3) The Council under para. 1 shall be chaired by the Minister of Environment and Water. (4) The organization and activities of the Council under para. 1 shall be determined by rules adopted by the Council of Ministers. This is under § 3 which is in accordance with the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u148	Statements? The people's representative, Jevdet Chakarov, has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! My motivation to make a proposal that is not supported when considering a second reading in the Commission of this text is that it is proposed the establishment of a Water Coordination Council, which, like many similar advices, will coordinate, but will not be responsible for anything, which is why there are no real independent powers. The Council cannot have autonomous powers because it is not an executive body and cannot be regarded and accepted as such. His powers are quite controversial. What will the Council coordinate in the development of river basin management plans and provided that the Law clearly states which are the competent authorities responsible for their development and lists the coordination mechanisms in the preparation of documents? In my opinion, such advice would delay the process of developing and approving plans for management of private pools. I expressed my reservations to this Council when we discussed and adopted the National Strategy for Water Sector Management and Development, and I am against it now. Based on my experience as Minister of Environment and Water, I believe it will be another non-functioning structure that the system does not need. Figuratively speaking, when we do, it has to be a leading object, like when we have to call a sick person, we know which phone to call. When there are distress situations and so on, there must be a clear subject. Subjectivity in this regard and with the proposed Water Coordination Council is unfortunately not achieved, in view of which I support the proposal made and I hope for positive support from the plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. - What's the line? I won't. For speech there is the word of the people representative Borislav Veliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, colleagues! Colleague Willi Lilkov and I have also given some proposals, some of which have been accepted, and we also thank the experts from the Ministry, and another part have not been accepted and, accordingly, I would like to take a short attitude without taking away much of the time in plenary. However, why would it be good for the newly established Coordination Council to have a representative of the Bulgarian Water Association? Obviously, this is the largest non-governmental organisation in the water sector, and we think it wouldn't be bad for it to have people who certainly have the necessary experience. With regard to the other unused points, they are connected as if mostly to our idea with professor. Lilkov this Coordination Council really needs to be filled with a little more content, as well as the honourable Dr. Chakarov just hinted, and to be able to discuss and propose to the Council of Ministers, of course, some changes in the legislation that are necessary in order to integrate the water policies, which is spoken of or can be assumed that the Coordination Council itself has been set up, as these 9 or how many ministers are scheduled to enter it, could undoubtedly take such an attitude and be timely. On the other hand, some purely editorial notes have not been accepted, including where a full member of the Bulgarian language is not accepted. Even though, for example, in para. 2, p. 2......................................................................................................... 1 point (a) but obviously these are trifles which are inherent at all in the creation of texts in our Parliament as well. Nevertheless, I would like to suggest here what was read by the honourable President Ivanov regarding para. 2 of art. 10d, t. 1 (b) (c) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (v) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) 2 of para. 2 and so on, the text goes on: the implementation and implementation of management plans and so on. Also, point (b) (i) (i) is: the funding and implementation of the programmes, as this is clearer and sounds more Bulgarian to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u152	- What's the line? Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Borislav Velikov and Willi Lilkov in its unsupported part, namely para. 1 as well as para. 2, p. Two and three. They voted 86 MPs: 14 against 8, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Jevdet Chakarov, which is also not supported by the Commission. They voted 89 MPs: 20, against 4, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. I will put to the vote the Commission's version together with those made by Assoc. Borislav Velikov offers in para. 2, p. 1 sub-paragraph.......................................................................................................................... Please vote on the text of the Committee on Importation for § 3 together with the proposals made by the National Representative Borislav Veliev. Vote 96 MPs: 90, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u153	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u154	Please come in for a re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There was a problem with the terminals of several MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u156	Re-vote, please. Vote 95 MPs: 89, none, abstention 6. The text of § 3 in accordance with the Commission report, together with the editorial proposal made in the Chamber by the National Representative Borislav Veliev, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u157	A proposal of the National Representative Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs is created a new § 3a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. in para. 1, t. point 4 (c) is replaced by the following: 2. para. 2 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u158	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposals to create new paragraphs 4 and 5 with their respective content, in accordance with the Commission's report. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The Commission's proposal to set up paragraphs 4 and 5 with their respective content, in accordance with the Commission's report, has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u159	No proposals have been made under § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 6. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 5, which becomes 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u160	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for § 4 and 5 which, in the Commission's report, become § 6 and 7 respectively. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The texts of the importer for § 4 and 5 which, pursuant to the Commission report, are respectively § 6 and 7 have been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u161	Proposal from the National Representative Borislav Velikov and the National Representative Vili Lilkov: A new § 5a and 5b shall be created with the following content: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 47 three new paragraphs are added (al. 12, para. 13th para. 14) with the following text: The placing on the market of natural mineral water obtained from one locality, irrespective of the number of its natural springs or artificially constructed water sources, under more than one commercial name or without a commercial name shall be prohibited. (13) The requirement under para. 11 shall also apply to the granting of permits for underground water management under art. 44, para. 1 for the purpose of bottling spring water within the meaning of the Water Act and the ordinance under art. 4b of the Food Act, with no more than one bottling permit being granted from the same source water field. (14) The placing on the market of spring water derived from one locality shall be prohibited regardless of the number of its natural springs or artificially constructed water sources, under more than one commercial name or without a commercial name. § 5b. The text of art. 49, para. 2 acquires the following version: The public interest shall also be violated in the production and distribution of bottled spring and/or natural mineral waters, carbonated or other beverages, including spring and/or mineral water, without the relevant certificate, without legal basis and not under the legal order, including where it is in violation of the principles of art. 47, para. 11, para. 12, para. 13th para. 14. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u162	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u163	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister! For those of you who are interested in this problem, I will add that this is about the water-bottling permits that are related to the purpose of bottling when it is planned, because access to resources in these cases naturally lies at the heart of the mineral water bottling business, whether mineral or spring. With Professor. Lilkov, probably with other colleagues from the Chamber and certainly outside the Chamber, we believe that there are problems here that are not denied by both Minister Vasileva and other colleagues, and we believe that they should be solved. We proposed these texts with a view to having an adequate regulation. The legal framework should establish clear, transparent and integrated rules for granting access to a resource with the explicit purpose of bottling, including ensuring compliance with European requirements, Directive 54 of 2009 of the European Union. You will probably feel those of you who are now paying attention to the Law amending the Water Act, that we have other proposals related to this problem. For the time being, most of them are not accepted, but we are counting that by putting an important problem for society, which even if not resolved with these changes or today at second reading, this will happen in the near future with the creation of a working group, so that when it is aimed at bottling, there is a clearer regulation, including the opinion of the Council of Ministers in cases where there are bottling permits, and so on. In this case, I was obliged to protect what we have done as an offer with Professor. Lilkov, and pay attention to the people in the hall who are not necessarily interested in this particular problem, as many of you are not quite close specialists in the field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u164	Any lines to Mr. Veliv? I won't. Any other MPs? To speak, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u165	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! The proposals made by colleagues Velikov and Lilkov were discussed during the Commission meeting and a working group was created specifically for this. Dear colleagues, this problem does exist, but its place of solution is not in this Law. We cannot define what food is in the Water Act because, honourable Members, what we are talking about is the demand of spring water within the meaning of another law is food and must be reflected, and the decision to find it in the relevant legislation and not here. Again, this is not the place. Since the question raised by fellow Members is really imperative to consider and seek its solution, a working group has been set up for the Council of Ministers, which will refine the legislation and reflect the relevant changes in order to resolve the conflicts from now on. Colleague Velikov, not that the proposals have not been accepted, they simply do not belong here, but you yourself know that we work to solve the problem in the appropriate place. We cannot support the proposal here, but we do not abdicate the search for a solution to this problem, as you yourself know with the working group. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u166	The line, Mr. Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u167	Madam President, honourable Members! I accept what President Stanislav Ivanov said in general. For colleagues who are not specialists, I would like to clarify that spring water is not food until it is bottled. We're talking about the natural spring, the natural mineral water, which is obviously not food. They spring up or are mined, or capsized by drilling, and until that happens, until they are at our disposal on the surface, there is no food. Please be precise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u168	Duplica - Mr. Ivanov
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u169	I was hoping that we would not enter into a dispute, colleague Velikov, but since in your proposal, and I will end it, you are affecting the spring waters, which are for bottling purposes, so we refer to another law. Maybe it's not exactly the proposed texts, but I say again, we'll look for a solution. Thank you, Madam President. [[Noise and excitement by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u170	Any other MPs? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Borislav Velikov and Vili Lilkov. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 89 MPs: for 7, against 31, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u171	Madam President, under § 6 there is an additional report to the Second Reading Report and I will now move on to it. According to § 6 there is a proposal from the MPs Borislav Velikov and Willi Lilkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 50a: Art. 50a. (1) The permits under art. 50, para. 1 shall be reviewed on compliance with the environmental objectives referred to in Article 1. 156a when: 1. the monitoring data or other information and assessments indicate that the environmental objectives established for a water body are not achieved or there is a risk by deterioration of the state of a water body or the potential of an artificial or highly modified water body; 2. discrepancies have been found between hydromorphological conditions and the ecological state of a water body or the good environmental potential of an artificial or highly modified water body; 3. for the body of water are justified exceptions under art. 156b- 156g requiring compliance with certain conditions. (2) The permits under art. 50, para. 1 shall be reviewed at any update of the characterisation of the pool water management area under art. 156z. (3) When exercising the rights of authorisation under art. 50, para. 1 represents pressure on the state of water contributing to deterioration or failure to meet the objectives of environmental protection or to failure to comply with the conditions of art. 156b-166g, the director of a pool director is planning an amendment of the permit and where the objectives or conditions of termination can not be achieved by amending, notifying the holder of the permit and carrying out the actions under art. 74, para. 1, t. 1. (4) The modification or termination of the permit under art. 50, para. 1 shall be included in the programmes of measures in the respective river basin management plan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u172	Statements? Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u173	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! My motivation to make this proposal is that in the original version of § 6, now § 8 is not clear what is meant when the permits under Article are required. 50, para. 1 to be reviewed in respect of compliance with the environmental objectives under art. 156a and fulfilling the conditions for planned exceptions under art. 156b-166g. This is an extremely subtle formulation. Even more disturbing is the intended modification or termination of the permit under art. 50, para. 1 in cases where the exercise of the rights of the permit constitutes a pressure on the state of the waters contributing to the failure to meet their good condition or to failure to comply with the conditions under art. 156b-166g. In order to avoid ambiguities in the interpretation and application of this important provision, it is necessary to edit the text by setting out the cases where permits issued should be reviewed in order to establish their compliance with the environmental objectives under art. 156a. It should also be specified when an authorisation will be amended and when it will be terminated. As it is proposed to reconcile the amendment procedures, respectively the suspension of authorisations with the process for developing river basin management plans, appropriate provisions should be established with a view to ensuring a working mechanism for this reconciliation without violating the rights of permit holders. I believe that we must be extremely careful when we create mechanisms for official amendment or termination of already issued and operating permits, and on the basis of compliance with any objectives or fulfilment of any conditions which are not explicitly laid down in them. The entry into force and the authorisation in force is an individual administrative act and is a final act in essence. The state should intervene in its rights as a last resort because, among other things, this creates extreme uncertainty in economic operators in terms of their business and has a bad impact on the investment climate as a whole. On the other hand, unclear and leaky provisions generate poor management practices, broad opportunities for corruption and unregulated pressure on businesses either from competition or from willing to acquire it at low prices. For the above reasons, I call on Members of the National Assembly to support the revised text of § 6, currently § 8, which creates the new article. 50a, since the uncertainties are cleared in it, guarantees of non-violence of the rights of the holders of the permits are greater and the mechanisms created are better without being at the expense of water protection. I would like to be correct, to say that I have presented my reservations with regard to these texts and during the review of the Bill at first reading, and in the Committee on Environment and Water, and here, in plenary, a commitment was also made by the Ministry of Environment and Water and Experts. I would like to thank them that, in a dialogue environment and with experts from the Commission, we have managed to find the texts that really govern relations to a much better extent. This is in the interests of all of us and, above all, for a better investment climate and for business to have its security and relevant relations in this area to be settled at a better level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. - What's the line? I won't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u175	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! Dr. Chakarov was sufficiently justified in his argument why we should support the consensus we reached at the Commission. But because I see that the gym is quite boring, because things are extremely expert, I would also like to say something else about the publishers of these permits are ultimately the directors of the pool directorates, and you all know that for the most part they are the political commissioners of a particular party. So, in addition to corrupt pressure, economic pressure, as my colleague before me said, their opportunity given by the previous text could be used as a political bat. We have put this issue very seriously to the Commission, and I am pleased that we have reached a consensus in this regard, and our group will also support the Commission's edited text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u176	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs for a statement? I don't see anyone who wants to. The debate is closed. I shall put to the vote § 8 in its version of the Commission's supplementary report. Vote 105 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u177	There is a proposal made by the MPs Borislav Velikov and Willi Lilkov created a new § 6a with the following content... The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u178	We're on the main report now, aren't we?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u179	The main report, Madam President. The proposal is as follows: In § 6a of Article 6a, paragraph 6 is replaced by the following: 56 a new para is created. 8 with the following text: Art. 56. (8) In addition to the requirements of para. 1 the water management permit for bottling and marketing of spring water shall indicate the trade name under which spring water will be offered on the market. ...............................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u180	Withdrawn, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u181	Mr. Veliv said he was withdrawing his proposals. So you won't be reading them. Do you all withdraw to the end, Mr. Veliv?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u182	No, just the ones that are connected...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u183	Only for bottling purposes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u184	Okay, but I'm asking you in a timely manner, so you don't read it, because then it's useless.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u185	Let him say it from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u186	Withdraw them officially.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u187	We've all heard and the transcript came in. Are you questioning the statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u188	No, but let's be clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u189	There's no problem with that. Go on, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u190	Thank you, Madam President. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Andonov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes the creation of a new § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the The authorisations for use of a water site for taking deposits shall be issued for no longer than the duration of the river basin management plan in force at the date of issue of the permit. In cases referred to in art. 140 the permit shall be granted to the person selected as the contractor of those activities for the duration of the contract concluded between him and the district manager.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u191	Statements? Mr. Andonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u192	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Madam Minister! I will make a brief statement on this paragraph, which has been tabled by me and is one of the paragraphs that I think bring in quite well observed by all of us injustice regarding the seizure of deposits in the riverbeds. Firstly, I would like to address the Commissioners for having supported all my proposals, to address the experts of the Ministry of Environment and Water and to the political leadership that we have jointly drawn up these proposals. They were supported. The aim of these proposals is to bring order to the extraction of the deposits, the so-called Balastrastra. In the riverbeds and to introduce a greater transparency and procedure that aims to protect the environment and prevent situations that we observed last year when there were excessive rainfall, namely floods in large territories from our country. What we are predicting, the deposits so far have been seized by a very simplified regime by permission to take a deposit. This is a dynamic stock whose control is very difficult to manage. Now what I propose, with the experts from the Ministry of Environment and Water, is that this dynamic stock be given to a seizure procedure managed by the district governor. The very amount of inert dynamic stock to be depopulated, which will enable the disposal to be calculated and assessed on the basis of the riverbed management plan, and the already depopulated amount of ballast to be sold under the public procurement procedure to interested parties. This, on the one hand, will allow in other texts, at a subsequent stage of the water report, that money that is collected from this type of inert material will be imported entirely only for the prevention and management of riverbeds, which have so far gone to the central budget. This is an amendment that should have been made a long time ago. It is supported by all mayors, by a large part of society and what I will call on you, the texts...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u193	Of all the mayors.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u194	Yes, all mayors have sent letters to support these proposals. What I will do is to call on my fellow Members in this House to support the texts that have been tabled by me and supported by the Commission by this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u195	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I shall put to the vote § 9 in the version of the Commission's main report. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u196	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u197	We vote § 10. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u198	Under § 8 there is a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Georgi Andonov, which the Commission supports. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 11, and shall propose the following version: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 60, para. The following amendments shall be made: 1. Point 4 is repealed. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: The words "the small dam" shall be replaced by "the dam" and the words "in accordance with the rules of art. 141, para. The following points are inserted after point 3 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 laying down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u199	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 11 on the report. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u200	No proposal has been made under §9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u201	So up to § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u202	Yeah. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13, respectively, becoming paragraphs 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u203	Anblok, we are voting on paragraphs 12 to 16 on the Commission report. They voted 109 MPs: 106, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u204	According to § 14, there is a proposal made by the MP Georgi Andonov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 17, and shall propose the following wording: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 79 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) point 7 is repealed; (b) To be created t. 8. It's 8 o'clock. The circumstances of art. 50a, para. 3 as from the date of adoption of the river basin management plan. 2. The creation of para. 8. The decision to terminate the permit under para. 1, t. 8 shall be issued within one month of the adoption of the river basin management plan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u205	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 17 on the Commission report. Vote 96 MPs: 90, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u206	There is a proposal made by the gentlemen Velikov and Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u207	We withdraw the offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u208	Thank you. It's been withdrawn. There is a proposal from the National Representative Georgi Andonov to create a new § 14a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 116, para. 2, p. The words "water site" shall be replaced by the Danube River and the reservoirs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u209	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u210	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! We will not support this proposal submitted by the gentlemen Velikov and Lilkov. [[Noise and lines.]] I apologize, Madam President. I didn't realize it was withdrawn. That's what happens when it comes from a place, not from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u211	Are there any statements under § 18? No. I'm voting § 18. Vote 87 MPs: 85 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u212	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u213	We vote. Vote 91 MPs: for 89, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u214	According to § 16 there is a proposal made by the National Representative Georgi Andonov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 20, and shall propose the following version: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 118g the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1, t. 4 after the words. 119a, para. 1, t. The text to the end shall be deleted. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: supplied deposits from water sites with the exception of the Danube River and the reservoirs and in the cases referred to in Article 2 (2) shall not be permitted. 140..................................................................... 3. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The use of the Danube River and the reservoirs for the extraction of deposits shall not be permitted when the seizure poses a risk of disruption of the stability of existing hydrotechnical or other facilities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u215	Paragraph 20 statements? I won't. We are voting § 20 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 92 MPs: 90 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u216	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u217	We vote § 21. Vote 91 MPs: 90, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u218	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 18, which becomes § 22, and proposes the following wording: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 119a, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. point 1 is amended as follows: "1." the surface water bodies and surface surface area above the underground water bodies under art. 119, para. 1, t. 1 and 2;................................................................................................ 2. point 2 is amended as follows: "2." water bodies defined as recreational waters and water sports, including designated bathing areas, according to the ordinance of art. 135, para. 1, t. In addition, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 after the words the protected areas and zones.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u219	Statements? I won't. We vote § 22. They voted 102 MPs: 99, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u220	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 23, and shall propose the following version: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 120 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 3 words................................................................................. 10 and so on. The following points are inserted after point 12 2. In para. 4 the number 12 and the comma in front of it are deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u221	Statements? I won't. We vote § 23. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The proposal shall be adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u222	The Commission shall support the importer's texts for paragraphs 20, 21 and 22 which become paragraphs 24, 25 and 26 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u223	We vote enblock three paragraphs. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u224	Under § 23, there is a proposal from the MP Jevdet Chakarov, made in accordance with Article 23. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 23, which shall become § 27, and shall propose the following version: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 138a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The Regional Managers shall appoint committees for annual audits of the technical and operational status of the dams and their facilities, which shall: 1. analyze the information provided under art. 141, para. 6 and carry out on-the-spot checks on the technical condition of the dams and their facilities; 2. prescribe to the owners of the dams and/or their facilities the implementation within a specified period of the necessary actions to ensure their technical performance and their safe operation; 3. check the performance of activities to ensure the conduction of the riverbed within 500 meters of the dams; 4. draw up a record of the findings and prescriptions made within 14 days of the verification under point 4. 1 which they provide to the governor and send to the owner of the dam and/or facilities to it, to the President of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision and to the director of the respective pool directorate, to take action according to their powers under this Law; the protocol shall also be sent to the mayor of the municipality in whose territory the dam and its facilities are located. 2. They're creating an al. 4-6: In the committees under para. 3 representatives of: 1. State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision; 2. General Directorate of Fire Safety and Population Protection at the Ministry of Interior; 3. the relevant regional administration; 4. the respective pool directorate. (5) The persons under para. 4 should possess the necessary for carrying out the activities under para. 3 professional qualifications as defined in the regulation under art. 141, para. 2. (6) The Regional Governor may attract additional experts with the relevant qualification for participation in the committees under para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u225	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 27 on the Commission report. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u226	The Commission shall support the importer's texts for paragraphs 24, 25 and 26, which shall become paragraphs 28, 29 and 30 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u227	We vote enblock three paragraphs. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u228	According to § 27, there is a proposal made by the National Representative Georgi Andonov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 31, and shall propose the following wording: ........................ 31...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 140 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The control for the implementation of the activities under art. 138, para. 4 shall be carried out by: 1. the President of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision or by officials appointed by the State Agency for the activities of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision. 8 and 9; 2. the Minister of Agriculture and Food and the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works or by their officials for the activities under point 2. 1 according to their competence under art. 10; 3. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications through the Director of the Executive Agency for the Study and Maintenance of the Danube River or by the Director-General for the activities under point 3. 10; 4. the directors of or by the officials appointed by them for the activities under point (c) of paragraph 1. 2-7. 2. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: When the examination reveals that the conduction of the riverbed other than the activities under para. 3 There is also a need for the seizure of deposits, the governor of the district: 1. assigns under the order of the Public Procurement Act the development of a technical project for the seizure by agreeing the technical order for the public procurement with the director of the respective pool director for its compliance with this Law and the ordinance under Art. 135, para. 1, t. 1a; 2. coordinate the project under point 2. 1 with the director of the respective pool director and RIEW, assign its implementation under the Public Procurement Act and establish a place for disposal of the seized material; 3. sells the seized material by auction with a price declared at a starting price not lower than the value of the calculated according to the tariff under art. 194, para. 6, and the funds of the sale remain in the budget of the regional administration and can be spent only on disaster protection events. 3. A new para is being created. 7 and 8: The Director of the relevant pool director shall issue a permit for use of a water site for the acquisition of deposits of the designated contractor under para. 6, p. 2. The terms and procedure for issuing the permit shall be determined by the ordinance laid down in art. 135, para. 1, t.1a. (8) The activities under para. 6 shall be financed by the regional administrations. 4. Previously on AMC's... 7 and 8 become respectively. 9 and 10. 5. The creation of para. 11: In carrying out the control for the implementation of the activities under art. 138, para. 4, the organs of para. 2 give mandatory prescriptions and, where necessary, require assistance from the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, from state and municipal authorities and from legal and natural persons.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u229	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 31 on the Commission report. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u230	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 32.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u231	We vote § 32. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u232	Paragraph 29? a proposal from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 33 and shall propose the following version: ................................................ Article 145 is amended as follows: Art. 145. (1) In the event of a flood risk where harmful consequences for the lives and health of people, the environment and material values which may be prevented or limited by the destruction of a hydrotechnical facility or part thereof may occur, the owner and the person managing the facility shall be obliged to provide full assistance to the mayor of the municipality in whose territory the facility is located to carry out the necessary work on the facility to prevent or limit the expected damage. (2) The activities under para. 1 shall be carried out by order of the mayor of the municipality concerned, in agreement with the district governor and the head of the territorial unit of the Directorate General for Fire Safety and Population Protection. (3) The funds used to carry out the activities under para. 1, as well as the restoration of dikes, if the same were destroyed in the order of para. 1 shall be reimbursed by a decision of the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u233	Statements? Mr. Chakarov, you have the floor. I am asking you on the content, not with gratitude to the administration, the Commission and to the House for the support. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u234	Thank you, my dear lady. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! In this text, I would like to say that it is a good idea to propose a flood risk that could have harmful consequences for people's lives and health, the environment and material values to be able to destroy a hydrotechnical facility or part of it in order to prevent or limit damage. I believe that this should be done not by order of the mayor of the municipality concerned, but by order of the district governor who is responsible for the safe use of the dams and has collected all information about the dam concerned. Moreover, the district governor as a representative of the state has a completely different status, naturally, and a burden in public relations, without questioning the competences and burdens of the mayors. Just a few texts that we voted on here have shown that there are also serious competences of the district governor in order to collect information, appoint the committee and so on, not to repeat them. In connection with the newly proposed para. 3 I would like to point out that there are no estimates and financial analysis of how much the taxpayer's proposal will cost, how much it will cost to recover the hydrotechnical facility, which is proposed to be borne by the budget of the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance to the Council of Ministers. This Commission does not take over the reconstruction of the destroyed houses of the people, but here it has to rebuild dams which, in the way of logic, will have to be destroyed because they have not been maintained in form and form that will not make them a threat. To put it mildly, this is a controversial text and I do not believe that it should be supported in its part, as well as for the reconstruction of the hydrotechnical facility. If the goal is to finance broken dikes, it's one thing, but if you finance broken dams, it's another. It is clear to all of us that the destruction of dams is achieved when owners or concessionaires do not keep the walls and facilities on them operational. On the one hand, when the concessionaire has, for example, walled or found the overflows or leakers in the general case, in order not to escape the fish, there will be no tide of the fish with which it has hooked the dam, the State money will have to be spent to destroy the wall once, and then before it has burst itself and flooded the settlements. On the other hand, the State will again give money to build this wall so that the concessionaire, who has failed to fulfil his obligation, can re-buy the dam and profit from it. Last but not least, if there is a flood, we will give the people 300 leva. Or possibly some other small sums, and we'll let them handle it on their own, because no one has enough money. This is absolutely unacceptable in terms of correctness. Once again, if the aim is to restore the dikes, I support it, but I do not support proposing a common text that extends the immensely wide scope of this provision, as now as objects falling within it and the funding needed to secure its implementation. Therefore, I propose that we make an adjustment and it is made in the provision of para. 3 to record the diggae instead of the hydropower facility. Let us once again before we finally vote on the texts, think about where to have the competences of the district governor or the mayor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u235	Please, § 33, para. 3 The text is: The funds used to carry out the activities under para. 1 as well as for the recovery of dikes...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u236	So be it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u237	I understand you made an offer... [[Heckling]] Colleagues, the text of the importer is going to debate. As regards the order of a district or the mayor, do you make a proposal in para. 2, where he is under the mayor's orders. You didn't support this text? [[Reply from MP Dzhevjet Chakarov.]] Colleagues, from Mr. Chakarov's speech, do you make an editorial proposal on the proposed text of the Commission? No. You maintain the text of the Commission. [[Heckling]] In the statement Mr. Chakarov said that the order should not be the mayor's, but the governor's. I ask: are you proposing or not? [[Heckling]] Instead of the mayor being the district manager. To speak, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u238	Colleagues, it is reasonable to support the proposal with the amendment tabled because what can happen? Only the responsibility for deciding to destroy a facility remains with the mayor. The next mayor can decide that the mayor was wrong in this case and start files, investigations as to why the mayor decided to push down the dam, the dike or open some ditch in the dam, where the water drained to prevent the relevant disaster. The regional governor who coordinates, who has all the information regarding the prevention of disasters and accidents, is also responsible. It is this responsibility that will be clothed with his ability and authority to issue such orders.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u239	Mr. Ercan Ebatine.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u240	My fellow Members, I fully support the proposal of Mr. Chakarov and Mr. Genov's activities under art. 145, para. 2 to be fully subject to the competences of the district governors, as they have the authority to coordinate activities with both Swimming Directorate and RIEW, and with all state institutions, including the mayor of the municipality, in order to come up with a competent opinion on activities related to the destruction of such facilities relating to possible danger to the lives and health of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u241	- What's the line? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. Colleagues, see what happens in the editing of para. 2. According to the Commission's report, the proposal for amendments is as follows: 1 shall be carried out by order of the mayor of the municipality concerned, in agreement with the district governor and the head of the territorial unit of the General Directorate of Fire Safety and Protection of the population. Mr. Chakarov proposed instead of the mayor's order to be "by order of the governor" and the text becomes the following, Mr. Chakarov: "The activities under para. 1 shall be carried out by order of the governor [[What is happening here with the respective municipality?]] , in agreement with the governor and head of the territorial unit of the Directorate-General. [[Relations from the MP Jevdet Chakarov.]] Drop what? Come to the microphone and tell me what to drop! Read the version of para. Two, according to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u242	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! It is logical in this case, since it will be ordered by the district governor, agreed with the district governor to fall, and we must now assess whether there should be coordination with the head of the General Directorate of Fire Safety. I believe that this is a presumption and should rather be done by order of the district governor, who can coordinate with all state structures.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u243	The text, the text! We're at second reading, read me how to sound!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u244	The activities shall be carried out by order of the district manager, if necessary, in accordance with the competent authorities. That's my offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u245	Mr. Chakarov's proposal is al. 2 to acquire the following version: "The Acts under para. 1 shall be carried out at the direction of the governor. We vote on Mr. Chakarov's proposal. I think the room's getting a little thin. [[BSP LB.]] I haven't read the score! You decided in advance that you would want a re-vote! You don't even know what's going on in this room!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u246	It's coming out on the dashboard.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u247	It's coming out on the dashboard, but I haven't read the score! They voted 88 MPs: 22, against 8, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u248	Madam President, I propose a re-vote, as my colleague Angelov, I saw other colleagues who raised their hand to both Jankov and Svilenski were unable to vote, so let us give them an opportunity to reflect their vote as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u249	Please get the Quaestors closer to Mr. Jankov and Svilensky, so we can make sure they vote this time! Revoting, coworkers! They voted 103 MPs: 26, against 24, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the full version of § 33 of the Commission report. They voted 107 MPs: 91, against 2, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u250	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 34. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 35.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u251	We are voting on paragraphs 34 and 35 on the Commission report. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u252	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 36 and shall propose the following wording: ................................ 36.................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 151 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 2, p. 1: (a) at the end of the period in point (b) a comma shall be placed and annual reports and the measures necessary for their implementation shall be added; (b) the following point shall be added in point 2. In para. 3, p. 2 after the word "level" a comma shall be placed and added, including the methodical planning of monitoring and clarifying the results.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u253	Statements? I won't. We vote § 36. 100 MPs voted: 98, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u254	According to § 33 there is a proposal made by the MPs Velikov and Lilkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 33 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u255	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 33 by importer. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u256	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, which shall become 37, 38, 39, 40 and 41 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u257	Statements? I won't. We are voting for paragraphs 37 to 41, including on the Commission's report. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u258	Under § 39 a proposal has been made from the Additional Report of Mr. Dzhevdet Chakarov in the order of Article 39. 80 of our Rules. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 39, which shall become § 42 and shall propose the following version: § 42. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 156f The following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: There is no violation of this law where: 1. no good environmental status of surface water or good environmental potential of highly modified water bodies has been achieved or no deterioration of their condition has been prevented as a result of a new change in the physical characteristics of the surface water body; 2. protection against deterioration of the surface water body from excellent to good is not achieved as a result of new activities for sustainable human development with socio-economic effect; 3. no good condition of groundwater has been achieved or no deterioration of their condition has been prevented as a result of a change in their level. 2. They're creating an al. 3? 10: In the programmes of measures under art. 156n, para. 2, p. 1 point (a) is intended to cover measures related to an environmental impact assessment, activities which may result in a failure to achieve a good condition or potential of a water body or a deterioration of its condition related to: 1. a new modification of the physical characteristics of surface bodies; 2. drawing of surface water when: (a) the sum of the project water quantity and already authorised to draw water quantities exceeding 60 percent of the permanent resources of fresh water, with 95% collateralisation for the pool of the river concerned; (b) when drawing up the project water quantity and permitted other draw-offs, there is a risk that the minimum allowable flow in the river may not be guaranteed during the underwater period of the river; 3. extracting groundwater through existing or new water-based facilities where: (a) the permitted draw from the water body exceeds 60 per cent of the ground water resources available for the previous year; (b) monitoring of levels shows a decrease in water levels at monitoring points. (4) In the programmes of measures under art. 156n, para. 2, p. point 1 (a) is replaced by the following: 1. all new activities in water bodies in which the condition is lower than good and the relevant activity is the pressure that contributes to this, including the construction of dams and water power plants, the drawing of surface and groundwater; 2. water bodies for which exceptions under para. are applied in the previous river basin management plan. 1. (5) In the cases under para. 3 and 4 where the investment proposal falls within the scope of Annex 2 to the Environmental Protection Act, account shall be taken of the need to carry out an environmental impact assessment: 1. the fulfilment of the requirements under para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. alternative solutions under para. 7 for the relevant investment proposal. (6) The assessment of the cumulative impact of all already authorised activities within the water body shall be reported in the cases under para. 3 and 4 for each investment offer. (7) For any investment proposal falling within the scope of para. 3 and 4, an assessment of the fulfilment of the requirements of para. 4 shall be included. 2, including for each alternative solution, the following shall be: 1. consider the proposed measures to reduce the adverse impact on the state of the water body and other related environmental components; 2. assess the benefit to society or to human health and safety or to sustainable development and compare with the benefits to the environment and to society of achieving good water status; 3. assess the other possible options for achieving the benefits of the investment proposal which are technically feasible and do not require excessive costs and which will not lead to changes or deviations in the state of the water body and justify the reasons why an alternative leading to such changes and deviations has been chosen. (8) When activities under para. 3 and 4 do not fall within the scope of Annex 1 and Annex 2 to the Environmental Protection Act, the assessments under para. 7 shall be carried out in the framework of the environmental assessment of river basin management plans. (9) The specific criteria for carrying out the assessments under para. 6 "8" shall be determined by a methodology for applying the exceptions under art. 156b '65f, approved by the Minister of Environment and Water. (10) The assessments under para. 6 "8" shall be included in the river basin management plans as a justification for the exceptions applied under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u259	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u260	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! I made this proposal because if for a body of water are justified exceptions under art. 156b " 156g" is important to know how these exceptions will be applied and if there are certain conditions in them, how it will be assessed whether and how these conditions are met. This is important not only in order to determine the water body and related features in river basin management plans, but also in order to implement the permits already issued under art. 50, para. 1 because by § 8 it is decided that they shall amend each other, respectively, if the conditions laid down in Article 8 have ceased. 156b.. 156g are not implemented. In view of this, the subjectivity of the expert to carry out that assessment should be reduced to a minimum and a uniform approach should also be introduced to ensure the uniform application of the Law to all authorisation holders. This can only be done if the application of the exceptions under art. 156b " 156f' lays down in a methodology of the Minister for Environment and Water, and also if the specific criteria for carrying out individual assessments are also determined by this methodology. Since all of this has been done, I support the version of § 42, which amends art. 156f, in particular the provision of para. 9. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u261	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission on the text of the importer for § 39, which shall become § 42 in its report. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The text of the importer under § 39 which, after editing, becomes § 42 in the Commission report, is unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u262	We're moving on to the main report. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40, which shall become § 43.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u263	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 40, which, on the Commission's report, becomes § 43. Vote 89 MPs: 88 against 1, no abstentions. The text of the importer for § 40, which in the Commission report becomes § 43, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u264	Under § 41, a proposal was made by the MPs Borislav Velikov and Willi Lilkov: In paragraph 41, we are proposing an version of this. 9, para. 2 of art. 156i by adding a second sentence as follows: Nine. Where appropriate, the public interest shall be taken into account in the official amendment or termination of the authorisations and then the rights acquired shall be amended or terminated as the order for their amendment or termination is from the permits issued at the latest to the latest for the water establishment concerned. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 41, which shall become § 44.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u265	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u266	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, colleagues, I would very briefly like to base this on our proposal, which is related to an already adopted proposal of ours in principle under art. 50a, § 6. In addition, with Prof. Lilkov we propose texts related to the introduction of criteria and priority when implementing restrictive measures on issued permits. We believe that the version by which we supplement the text guarantees public interest as a leading criterion, and the restriction is to apply in a logical sequence of the last ones issued to the earliest ones. I can further justify it, but I think it's short and clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u267	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. We vote on the proposal of the MPs Borislav Velikov and Willi Lilkov, which the Commission does not support. Vote 95 MPs: 15 against 4, abstention 76. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 41, supported by the Commission, which shall become § 44 in its report. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 44 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u268	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 42, which shall become § 45, and shall propose the following version: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 156o, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 the words "in" shall be deleted. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 the words "s17 and 18' are replaced by "9 and 17'.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u269	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text edited by the Commission of the importer for § 42, which shall become § 45 in the Commission report. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The text of Paragraph 45 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u270	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 43 which shall become § 46.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u271	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 43 which, in the Commission's report, acquires numbering § 46. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. Paragraph 46 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u272	Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Andonov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 47: ss ss s s s s s In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 188, para. 1, t. 4 Finally added the permits to use a water site to claim deposits from the Danube River.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u273	Statements? I won't. Please vote on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 47. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The Commission's proposal to create a new § 47 has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u274	Under § 44, a proposal was made by the MP Georgi Andonov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 44, which shall become § 48, and shall propose the following wording: ............... 48............................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 190 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications controls the use of inland sea and waters of the territorial sea and of Danube waters for transport purposes. 2. They're creating an al. 4 and 5. The President of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision or officials authorised by the State Agency shall monitor the implementation of: 1. the regulations of the committees referred to in Article 1. 138a, para. 3; 2. the measures to ensure the proper technical condition of the dams and their facilities and their safe operation; 3. activities for decommissioning and/or liquidation of dams and facilities thereto; 4. Activities under art. 145, para. 2. (5) The Executive Director of the Executive Agency for the Study and Maintenance of the Danube shall monitor the fulfilment of the conditions in the permits for the use of a water site for the acquisition of deposits from the Danube River.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-15.u275	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for § 44 by importer, which shall become § 48 in its report. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 48 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted. That's it. It's 2:00. Tomorrow, we continue with the first vote on the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land. I'm adjourned for the day. [[PHONE RINGING]]
