ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] One message. On 3 June 2015, the National Assembly received a Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Deposit Guarantee Fund and banks on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 25 April 2015. "25 May 2015 and Protocol No 25 of the Governing Council meeting at which the report is reviewed and discussed. The report and the minutes are sent to the Budget and Finance Committee and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. According to the programme adopted as point one for today, we should start the plenary day with: In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue will give rise to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation. After the debates and voting on the draft laws cited by me, we will continue with a second vote on the Draft Law for amendment and supplement to the Insurance Act. We begin with the bills for amendment and addition to the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government. First we will hear the reports submitted by the committees to which the bills are allocated, then we will listen to the importers and we will move on to a joint debate. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Mr. Kirilov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Direct Participation of Citizens in the Government and Local Self-government, No 454-01-21, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 27 October 2014; Draft Law amending the Law on the Direct Participation of Citizens in State Power and Local Self-government, No 454-01-37, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of National Representatives on 27 October 2014; Draft amending the Law on the Direct Participation of Citizens in State Power and Local Self-government, No 554-01-65, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a Group of People's Representatives on 18 February 2015; Draft Amendment and Supplement of the Law on the Direct Participation of Citizens in the State Government and Local Government, No 554-01-65, submitted by Mariana Georgieva Todorov and Group of People's Representatives on 1 April 2015; Law amending and Supplement to the Law on the Law on the Direct Participation of the Government and Local Government in the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Governments Act No 55. At its meeting held on 27 May 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government of all six colleagues I have listed so far. The meeting was attended by Mr. Petko Petkov, Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr. Alexander Stefanov, State Expert at the Ministry of Justice and Ms. Mariana Hristova from the Temporary Public Councils of Bulgarians abroad. On behalf of the importers, the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government, No 454-01-21, was presented by Mr. Volen Siderov. The bill provides for the right to vote in a national and local referendum to have citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria who have acquired primary education. It is also proposed the introduction of a mandatory vote in the production of a referendum for all citizens who have the right to vote. Regarding the bill, negative opinions were received from the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Education and Science. There are arguments that the requirement for educational censure as a condition for participation in a referendum is contrary to the provision of art. 42, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. In relation to the proposal to introduce mandatory voting in a local or national referendum, a violation of art. 10 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, under which the referendum is produced on the basis of the principles of common and equal voting rights. On behalf of the importers, the Law amending the Law on the Direct Participation of Citizens in State Power and Local Self-government, No 554-01-37 was presented by Mr. Volen Siderov. The bill provides for the abolition of the ban on holding a referendum on issues governed by international treaties concluded by the Republic of Bulgaria after their ratification. On behalf of the importers, the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on direct participation of citizens in the state government and local self-government, No 554-01-65, submitted by Mariana Georgieva Todorova and a group of MPs, was presented by Ms. Mariana Todorova. There was a positive opinion from the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Bulgaria in support of the proposals. Ms. Todorova noted that the current law is restrictive and restricts voters to express their will. With the Bill, importers propose the number of signatures needed for a proposal to initiate a referendum to be reduced from 200 thousand to 150 thousand, and the number of signatures for mandatory national consultation to be reduced from 500 thousand to 300 thousand, thus giving the right to real and equal participation of the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria in state power and local self-government and increasing the possibility of network self-organization of citizens on the ground. There is a legal possibility that the proposal, subject to the referendum, should be accepted if no less than 40 per cent plus one vote by the citizens with electoral rights and no less than 50 per cent plus one vote for questions under art. 153 of the Constitution and if more than half of the voters who participated in the referendum have voted with the vote. It proposes lowering the threshold for holding a local referendum and adopting the proposed proposal if no less than 40 per cent and one vote from those eligible for voting in the municipal council elections were participated in a local referendum. Mrs. Todorova pointed out that the reduction of the quorum for validity corresponds to a number of European practices. On behalf of the importers, the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government, No 554-01-72, submitted by Petar Vladislavov and a group of MPs, was presented by the National Representative Dimitar Delchev. A positive opinion has been received by the Ministry of Justice in support of the proposals made. Mr. Delchev noted that the thresholds for initiating a national and local referendum, as well as the thresholds for validity, are unduly high and should be reduced by the number of signatures needed for a proposal to initiate a referendum, to be reduced from 200 thousand to 150 thousand, and the number of signatures for mandatory national consultation should be reduced from 500 thousand to 300 thousand. With regard to the threshold for validity, it is proposed that the referendum be considered valid if more than half of the citizens with electoral rights who have the right to vote for elections to the National Assembly have participated in it. The requirement for the content of the signatures is amended by providing that only the place and street on which the person lives are to be present, dropping the requirement to fill in a permanent address, as the filling of personal data affects the participants in the subscription. The Bill provides for a local referendum to be produced on a proposal from one tenth of municipal councillors, as well as a reduction of the threshold for holding a local referendum and acceptance of the proposal made if more than half of the citizens with electoral rights who are entitled to vote for local government bodies have participated in it. On behalf of the importers, the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government, No 554-01-99, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs, was presented by the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The Bill provides for a waiver of the condition for producing a referendum only on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, thus extending the circle of citizens with electoral rights. A short and reasonable one-month period shall be provided for the removal of identified non-compliances of the signature. Mr. Kirilov pointed out that the proposals made enable the simultaneous production of national referendums and elections, combining in one date two forms of democracy will increase the activity of participation of citizens in the political process and will allow optimal use of public resources. It is introduced the possibility that parties, coalitions of parties and initiative committees can register in support of the issues of the referendum and of an alternative position. The discussion was attended by the MPs Hristian Mitev, Chetin Kazak, Yavor Notev, Dimitar Delchev, Lachezar Nikiforov, Svilen Ivanov and Danail Kirilov. In the course of the discussion Mr. Christian Mitev expressed his and Mr. Emil Dimitrov his support for five of the submitted bills, noting that the proposed changes in them will solve a large part of the controversial moments in the current Law for direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government. With regard to the Draft Law No 554-01-37, submitted by the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs, Mr. Mitev noted the inability to support the same by arguing that no referendum should be produced on matters already regulated in contracts concluded by the Republic of Bulgaria, ratified in the established order, promulgated and entered into force for the Republic of Bulgaria. Mr. Petko Petkov confirmed the negative opinion of the Ministry of Justice regarding Law No 454-01-21, submitted by the National Representative. Volen Siderov and a group of MPs, about the introduction of an educational center for those who voted in referendums. Mr. Chetin Kazak expressed support only for the Bill submitted by the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs, noting the need for precision. With regard to the other bills, Mr. Kazak expressed his opinion that so imported, part of the bills are unconstitutional in nature and will not be supported by it, and another part is unacceptable in their content. Mr. Yavor Notev expressed his opinion in support of all submitted bills. Mr. Dimitar Delchev expressed his support for the bills, which offer a reduction in the number of signatures to initiate referendums. Mr. Lachezar Nikiforov pointed out that he would support all the bills, with the exception of Law No 554-01-37, submitted by the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs, because he said it is unconstitutional in its nature. Mr. Danail Kirilov noted that he would refrain from supporting bills with No. 454-01-21 and No. 554-01-37, submitted by the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs, as they contradict the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Regarding the other four bills, he expressed his principled support for the projects, with regard to some of them pointing out the need for precision. Ms. Mariana Hristova, as a representative of the Interim Public Councils of Bulgarians abroad, expressed her support for the Draft Law No 554-01-99, submitted by the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs, pointing out that with the proposed change in art. 9, para. 1 of the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government will be given the opportunity to produce a national referendum on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and abroad, which will lead to an extension of the circle of citizens with electoral rights outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Following the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs: - with 4 votes...... 2 votes against..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - with 6 votes....... 1 votes against.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - with 2 votes....... 2 votes against.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - with 8 votes....... 1 vote against.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - with 9 votes....... 1 votes against.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - with 11 votes in favour, with no votes against the House and 1 vote abstention, he proposed to the National Assembly to support the Law amending and supplementing the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government, No 554-01-99, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 22 May 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u3	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. We are now to hear the Commission's reports on interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. Here you are, Mrs. Marinska. I call for a summary of the reports. Otherwise, we won't have enough time to hear just the reports.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u4	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government, No 454-01-22, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. At its meeting held on 29 January 2015, the Commission on Interaction with NGOs and Citizens' Complaints discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government, No 454-01-22, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by the MP Ilian Todorov. The proposed reasons for the draft proposal are to reduce the number of signatures needed to submit a proposal for the production of a national referendum; increase the time limits for the procedure for submitting proposals for a referendum and shorten the time limits for initiating a repeat referendum; abolish the ban on holding a referendum on issues governed by international treaties concluded by the Republic of Bulgaria after their ratification; a deadline is introduced which obliges the President of the National Assembly to move the file with a proposal for a referendum to DG GRA. According to the bill submitted by the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs, opinions were received from the Minister of Justice, Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio. The opinion expressed by the Minister of Justice is that the amendment of the Law should be made as a result of a broad discussion in society in order to seek the broadest possible support and agreement on the issues of principle. The opinion of the Bulgarian National Television is that the current legal framework for the participation of public media in such information campaigns is guaranteed not only by the Law for direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government, but also by the Election Code. The Bulgarian National Radio has no objection to the texts so proposed for a change in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 4 and 5. In the course of the discussion, the Members of the Commission expressed the opinion that the current legislation regarding the larger number of signatures needed for the holding of a national referendum ensures to a sufficiently high extent the public importance of the relevant case. On the basis of the discussion and after the vote, the Commission on the interaction with non-governmental organizations and citizens' complaints, without the votes for the public, with 7 votes against the government and 10 votes abstentions, proposed that the National Assembly not adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government, No 454-01-22, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. The next bill: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on direct participation of citizens in government and local self-government, No 454-01-21, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. At its meeting on 29 January 2015, the Commission on Interaction with NGOs and Citizens' Complaints discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government, No 454-01-21, submitted by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. The meeting was attended by the People's Representative Ilian Todorov on behalf of the importer, Mr. Alexander Stefanov. The Deputy Minister of Education and Science and Mrs. Vanya Kastreva took part in the meeting. On behalf of the importer The bill was presented by the MP Mr. Ilian Todorov. The Bill proposes that the right to vote in a local or national referendum be subject to the requirement that the citizen should have a primary education at the date of a referendum. The reasons state that lack of basic education is a prerequisite for ignorance of government, the principles of democracy and the importance of political parties' activities. It is also proposed the introduction of a mandatory vote on a local or national referendum for all citizens who have the right to vote. Under the bill submitted by the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs have received opinions from the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Education and Science. They state that the basic constitutional principle of equality of citizens before the Law is violated. By introducing an education-based ban, citizens are put at a disadvantage depending on the degree of their education. It should be borne in mind that, under the Constitution, the right to education is referred to as a fundamental right. With regard to the proposal to introduce a mandatory vote on a local or national referendum for all citizens who have that right, it should be borne in mind that there is a single response to the degree of compliance of this proposal with the Constitution. In the subsequent discussion, the MPs expressed their views that the introduction of educational center and compulsory voting contradict texts of the basic Law....................................... the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria........................................ 6, para. 2. The proposal for the introduction of an educational price is completely unfounded and discriminatory. Following the vote, the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints, without votes, with 13 votes in favour of abstentions and 2 votes, proposed that the National Assembly should not adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government, No 454-01-21, submitted by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. ♪ The next ♪ ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government, No 554-01-65, submitted by Mariana Georgieva Todorova and a group of MPs on 1 April 2015. At its regular meeting held on 7 May 2015, the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints discussed the project under review. On behalf of the importer The bill was presented by the MP Mariana Todorova. The reason of the importer was noted that since 1878 four national consultations were held in Bulgaria, of which only one in the democratic period of the country, and an attempt to conduct 11 ones that did not take place for an immediate or procedural reason. This shows that the current Law has significant problems that limit voters to express their will. The high legal thresholds for the number of citizens to support the request for a referendum in order to organise it and the number of those who have to participate in it in order to be valid effectively block the application of the Law. After careful analysis of the meaning of the direct participation of citizens in government, the possibility of real access to a referendum and also in view of the experience and conclusions of the consultations held in Bulgaria, it is more than necessary to amend the Act in force in order to give the right to real and equal participation of the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria in the state power and local self-government. The importer proposes reducing the number of signatures needed for a proposal to initiate a referendum to be reduced from 200,000 to 150,000, making it significantly easier for citizens to initiate a referendum. By reducing the number of signatures for mandatory national consultation of 500 000 to 300 000, the possibility of self-organization of citizens is increased repeatedly without having to support them by party organizations, as the current number of signatures is only possible for major political parties. The importer proposes that a referendum be recognised as valid if 40% plus 1 of the citizens with electoral rights have voted in it, instead of the current requirement of the Law, under which the referendum is valid if they have participated no less than the number of voters in the last elections for MPs. Under the bill submitted by the National Representative Mariana Todorova and a group of MPs, an opinion was received by the Minister of Justice. It states that the submitted bill contains proposals for changes that should be supported in principle. The Ministry draws attention that the proposed new values for the number of signatures are also high, given the short period for their collection and the large number of personal data. The ministry supports its thesis by arguing with the application of direct democracy in Switzerland, where 50 000 citizens can initiate a referendum, with signatures being collected for a period of three months. Regarding the quorum for the validity of the referendums, the Ministry quoted the recommendation of the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe, according to which either a quorum for validity should not be envisaged at all, or it should be fixed to a low threshold of about 25%. According to the Ministry, the proposed changes in thresholds will not lead to civil activity and a particular effect on direct democracy. The Public Council of the Commission on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints has delivered its opinion, supported by more than 150 organisations, which generally supports the need for amendments to the Law by proposing the following proposals for amendments to the Law on the direct participation of citizens in government and local self-government: Change in art. 9, para. 1 of the Law on the direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government by dropping the expression on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and allowing the participation of citizens located outside the territory of the country to be included by opening sections outside embassies abroad; - Reduction of the quorum requirement for participation in the referendums to 20% of voters; - Reduce the requirement to collect a certain number of signatures for the exercise of a citizens' initiative for a referendum to reduce to 100 thousand and 50 thousand for the non-binding initiative, for a local referendum to 1% of the number of voters in the municipality, district or town hall for a binding initiative and to 0,5% for a non-binding one. In the subsequent discussion, the MPs expressed their opinion that they support the proposals for amendments to the Bill. In the speeches they expressed their willingness to submit the proposed texts for editorials on the specific texts. Following a vote, the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints with 12 Voices................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government, No 554-01-72, submitted by Petar Vladislavov Slavov and a group of MPs on 8 April 2015. At its regular meeting held on 7 May 2015, the Commission on Interaction with NGOs and Citizens' Complaints discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government submitted by Petar Vladislavov and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by the National Representative Willi Lilkov on behalf of the importer, Atanas Slavov and a representative of the Ministry of Justice. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by the MP Vili Lilkov. The reasons for the proposed Draft were set out that the thresholds for initiating a referendum, national and local, as well as the thresholds for validity, were unduly high. The proposed changes are in para. 1 of art. 10, t. 5 the number..200 thousand...................................................................................................................... The 10th number is to be replaced by 300,000. With regard to the threshold for validity, it is envisaged that the referendum should be considered valid if more than half of the citizens with electoral rights who have the right to vote in elections for the National Assembly have participated in it. In the current text of the Law there is the possibility of producing a national referendum on a proposal of not less than one fifth of the municipal councils in the country. The Bill provides that this number will be reduced to one tenth. A proposal to initiate a local referendum, under the current law, can make a fifth of the municipal councillors, but not less than three. The suggestion is that the number should be reduced to one tenth. These changes will increase the possibility of producing referendums in the country. The reasons presented to the Bill were that it was necessary to reduce the required personal data when collecting the petition for holding a referendum in order to avoid abuse of personal data and thus encourage citizens' activity to participate in the signatures. It is proposed that when collecting signatures, personal data should be restricted only to a locality and street, respectively area, neighborhood and block, but not to require an exact address. Another major problem, which can be avoided with the proposed changes, is the termination of a referendum initiative following the termination of the mandate of the National Assembly. The present Bill provides for the newly elected National Assembly to complete the procedure launched in the previous National Assembly. Under the bill submitted by the national representative Petar Vladislavov Slavov and a group of MPs received an opinion from the Minister of Justice, expressing principle support for the changes tabled. The analysis made on the implementation of the current Law shows that the higher requirement for number of signatures prevents referendums and stimulates more abuse of personal data. With regard to the proposal to reduce the quorum for the validity of the referendum of 50% of the electoral corps, the standards of the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe should be taken into account, according to which the introduction of the quorum has a generally negative effect on direct democracy, because instead of stimulating civil participation, it actually stimulates boycott and non-participation. The recommendation adopted by the Venice Commission is either not to provide for a quorum of validity at all and, in the case of such a recommendation, to be fixed to a low threshold of about 25%. In its opinion, the Public Council of the Commission supports the opinion presented in principle and proposes the following proposals for amendments to the Law on the direct participation of citizens in state power and in local self-government: - Extension of the deadline for collecting signatures in support of a national or local referendum up to six months, which does not, however, exclude an earlier conclusion of the process and the deposit of signatures; - Inability on the part of the National Assembly or municipal councils to reformulate or edit the issue of the Initiative Committee when a citizens' initiative for a referendum is implemented through a petition; - Relief of the requirements for the provision of personal data in direct participation in signatures for civic initiatives and referendums - not to require UNN but only a date of birth; - Provide the possibility of collecting signatures online; - Inclusion of a new section in the Law concerning the information campaign in order to ensure conditions and prerequisites for a wide public debate, transparency and equality of views and - Introduction of an opportunity for a real legislative citizens' initiative. During the discussion, the Members of the Commission expressed their opinion that in the current legislation regarding national and local referendums a change is needed. In their speeches, they supported the proposed changes to the proposed bill. On the basis of the discussion and after a vote, the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints with 12 Voices................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Marinska. We now proceed to the presentation of the bills on behalf of their importers. The three Bills of Ataka with importer Mr. Siderov and a group of MPs will be presented by Mr. Siderov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, first of all, I am pleased that amendments to the Law on the direct participation of citizens in the state power are being dealt with, because now the law in force is practically blocking the real referendums, the consultation of the people. We all know that, and it was about time to make repairs. This, of course, which I am not satisfied with, is the opinions of the two committees that we have just heard, in which our proposals to me and my colleagues from "Attack" are rejected as a whole. Although in the discussion in the Commission, I personally tabled in one of the committees, my colleague Todorov was in the other, it was that some of these proposals were accepted, others were not, but were generally rejected. That is why I turn to you in advance with advice and a call for you if there is anything in the proposals that we from "Attack" suggest that you do not agree with, then vote for......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There's a lot of talk about direct democracy. There is a lot of talk about the fact that society is now disinterested, apathetic, that it does not want to participate in elections. Yeah, he doesn't want to take part in an election because he doesn't see the point, he doesn't see his presence. If people start to see that they have a direct bearing on the laws, that they can directly influence the change of laws, I am convinced that the interest in politics and the political participation of society will be increased, even more effective than by compulsory voting or by imposing sanctions and so on. The important thing is for the Bulgarian people to see that they can directly influence the way they are in Switzerland. In some of the exhibitions was referred to as an example the state of Switzerland and I therefore start with the number of signatures. Switzerland is almost as much as Bulgaria as population. It takes only 50,000 to initiate a referendum. The signature. In Bulgaria, 500 thousand are needed, with UNN. That has to change. I am glad that the other proposals are in this direction as well. The difference between our proposal and that of the other importers is in the number of signatures. We propose the mandatory number of signatures to be of 200 thousand, as it is now needed to enter the National Assembly and be considered, at 50 thousand, and from 500 thousand to 200 thousand. We believe that this is realistic and the collection of this number signatures is now becoming real and possible. In addition, the requirement for NGN should be dropped. An address may be provided and thus the signature may be valid. We're also making a change. I don't know, Madam President, I'm looking at all the proposals together because they're in three parts, but let's not do three exhibitions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u7	In general, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u8	We're also setting a deadline. This is a major omission by lawmakers who have now passed the current law. At the moment, there is no time limit within which the President of the National Assembly is obliged to move the petition to the City. We introduce such a deadline because otherwise, in practice, a petition can be collected and stand unlimited time in the Presidency of the National Assembly. We also want an increase in the time limit for the signatures to be collected. The current period of three months is insufficient, as I repeat, in Bulgaria are currently very difficult to collect signatures, people do not want to give their NGN. That is why we propose an increase in the period within which to collect the petition for consultation with the people. I'm getting to the point where it turns out to be controversial. One of them concerns education. We heard the opinions of both committees just now. There was also an opinion of the Ministry of Justice in the Legal Commission and it said that it would be a violation of the Constitution to require basic education from those involved in the referendum. We believe that this is not a violation of the Constitution, because in its article. 53, para. 2 is clearly said: "Education up to 16 years is mandatory. " Since education is mandatory under the Constitution up to 16 years of age, it is assumed that by this age a person will acquire primary education. The opposite means that we assume that in 16 years the students will repeat, for example, three times and will not gain education. In fact, the opinion of the Ministry of Education states precisely that the constitutional obligation was by age, but not educational value. What does that mean? To me, it's a Jesuit tangle, but behind it lies that the official authority's opinion of the Ministry encourages repetition, so to speak. They encourage those who cannot or do not want to gain primary education by 16 years. Is that the kind of society we want?! Are we encouraging illiterate society, not educated and literate?! Here in the last few days and weeks, there has been a lot of talk about the integration of a specific group into our society. This integration can only happen with education. When we propose that primary education should be mandatory in order to participate in a referendum, and it could also be applied to the Election Code at all, this should not be contested, but rather should be supported by the other parliamentary groups. But we see that the opinions of both committees and the Ministry are negative. I advise you, however, to think about this, as the constitutional requirement of up to 16 years of compulsory education does not conflict with having a basic education. You're supposed to get him. The other contentious moment is an amendment which eliminates the ban on raising issues affecting international treaties already ratified. We believe that this is a restriction, as the sovereign of power the Bulgarian people should have the right to rule on international treaties, even if they have already been concluded. When the people are not asked, as was not asked, for example, whether we should be members of NATO or not, we believe that this is an neglect of the people's will. We're fixing this pass by asking for art. 9, para. 4 of the Law on direct participation of citizens to be repealed and thus to waive the restriction, as we believe it is anti-constitutional. I know that lawyers here will say that international treaties are above domestic laws, but it would be good to have a discussion on this issue.................... whether they really stand, whether the people really have the right to rule on already concluded contracts. Some contracts are concluded in the dark, honourable Members. Some contracts are concluded by lobbyists, for example, or by governments, for which public opinion is then negative. Don't we have the right to correct them?! I think we're right. The other amendments we propose are related to the coverage of referendum topics. You know that referendums are not held in new times, except for one for Belene. But what did the practice show? The practice has shown that people are not fully acquainted with the topic of the referendum. We therefore introduce an amendment which obliges BNR and BNT to include in their programme specialized programmes on the topic of referendum and thus to get acquainted with society, to be prepared when going to vote and not to be broadcast or manipulated in one direction or another. I remember very well that Belene had incredible speculations on the subject, had incredible influences on public opinion in an incorrect way. Actually, there was no objective information.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u9	You will have more opportunity in the debate, Mr. Siderov, as the minutes are up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u10	Yeah. I think these are the main amendments that we offer to your attention. My call to you is to support them. Then at second reading, if you do not agree with something, you can point by point to reject what you do not agree with. Thank you. [[Private applause by Ataka.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u11	Thank you. We will now hear the bill with importer Mariana Todorova and a group of MPs. Mrs. Todorova will introduce us to this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u12	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We should not be afraid to empower citizens with more rights so that they effectively exercise direct democracy. Even the Constitution provides for a guarantee of the people's power. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 3 says: "No part of the people, political party or other organization, state institution or individual can take advantage of the realization of the people's belongings. That is, state institutions, including Parliament, cannot restrict citizens' right to participate directly in the country's governance, but, on the contrary, must create conditions for the full exercise of that right. We generally say that there is a level playing field between direct and representative democracy, but it is through the bodies of representative democracy that lay down the rules under which the referendum is held. In 137 years since the Liberation only 4 national referendums have been held, one of which is in the latest history of Bulgaria. During this time, 11 initiatives have dropped out on procedural or conceptual reasons, which means there is a deficit in the exercise of direct democracy. We at ABB believe that we need to take a step towards this tool to become more working. The current Law is not effective, as it is quite restrictive in two respects: first of all the number of people who support the signatures for holding a referendum, and second of all the participants in the vote, because under the current legislation, the success of the referendum is linked to those who voted in the last national elections and turnout. But that's quite real, because once the turnout could be 68%, the other time it could be 50. 40%. This presupposes different referendums to have different burdens. It is said that by binding to the vote in national elections there is greater representativeness. I do not agree, as the voter turnout of national elections is a function of interest in elections. It could be a criminal vote, it could be an assessment of the economic situation or political governance, so this is not a guarantee of representativeness for me. Therefore, our proposal is the threshold for validity and legitimacy of the referendums to be 40% plus 1 of the voting rights on the electoral lists for the National Assembly, and for a local referendum of 40% plus 1 of the lists for municipal councillors. These changes aim to achieve clarity, predictability and stability in the conduct of the referendums, so the rules and criteria are the same each time, and not to be relevant to voter turnout. This is done in view of the stability of the system, as it is better to be fixed and not each time depend on the different levels. I'm in a hurry here to answer why exactly 40% plus 1. In European practice there are different trends, different binding to different activities. In most countries, the threshold is more conservative than 50% of those eligible for voting. That's how it is in Italy, Portugal, Poland. Among the low thresholds are Slovenia, 20%, in Denmark, 30%, as well as in other Scandinavian countries. As already mentioned, there is no threshold in Switzerland. Speaking and meeting with various non-governmental organisations, they insist that this quorum be dropped, as it is believed to be quite restrictive, but in view of being legitimate and representative, we offer a smoother democratization of the reduction of the threshold for validity and therefore we offer 40%. These 40% of those eligible for voting in Bulgaria are roughly 2 million. Seven hundred and sixty thousand. citizens. If this is a very successful outcome of presidential elections, and if the President is considered a person who represents the interests of the entire nation, it is not a problem for us to see that this is the European Court of Justice legitimate for the elections. We have chosen a slightly higher threshold because we want to align the criteria for a national and local referendum to be 40% plus 1 of the voting rights in both cases. There are many debates about whether society is mature, whether it can judge and rule on many of the topics. That is why we often hear in the comments that referendums are a kind of nuclear bomb, that citizens cannot make an informed decision. However, it has been shown that the lower the threshold for legitimacy of a referendum, the more support is being mobilised for........................................ the arguments given. In other words, a full debate is born and a full decision is finally made. Except for the validity of the referendums, we propose only for issues concerning amendments to the Constitution, as they are also voted by a qualified majority in the National Assembly. Therefore, in this case alone, we propose that the referendum be valid if it has been voted on by 50% plus 1 of those entitled to vote. Our other proposals concern the signatures for holding a referendum. We propose that the amount should be reduced from 500 000 to 300 000, as we believe that this initiative will become more accessible not only to major political parties, but also to civil organisations that will be able to self-organise and benefit from this initiative. With regard to the proposal for an initiative of the National Assembly, we also propose that the petition be reduced from 200,000 to 150,000. These are our proposals. I appeal, above all, to support the lower threshold to show people that we are not afraid of their pronouncement, of their choice, that we respect direct democracy. Thank you. [[Private applause from ABB.]] PRESENT CECCA TSACHEVA: We will now hear the fifth draft of Mr. Petar Slavov and a group of MPs. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, in a nutshell, a large part of the arguments are why the thresholds for initiating a referendum and for its validity should be reduced. Colleague Todorova of the ABC justified it quite well. I'm not gonna say it again. I share these views. What we have done in addition to these proposals from the Reformation bloc concerns first of all the possibility that the next National Assembly to complete a referendum started by a previous National Assembly or the so-called "Continuity," what is currently lacking in the Law and which is perhaps the reason that in the coming days we will be debating the referendum on the choice of reform which, you know, was failed by the previous National Assembly and was not held. That's first. Secondly, I will focus on the changes that we have proposed in terms of how to collect signatures. At the moment, these signatures require all possible personal data that a person can imagine and which, of course, often bothers people, and it is not justified to legally collect these data. People can identify themselves well enough by three names, U.N.N.N. and, for example, only the locality where they live, possibly and the street, but not the block, number and so on. That's our other offer. We think that, by easing this procedure, we will encourage citizens to be more active in collecting signatures and initiating a referendum, of course, will also be more relaxed for their personal data. I also hope that there will be no attempts at abuse under the pretext that if someone has not written their apartment in the block and the neighborhood, their signature will be considered invalid, as there were cases in the previous National Assembly during the mandate of Oresharski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u14	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Now it's Mr. Kirilov with the last bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u15	Thank you, Madam President. The main highlights in the bill that we have offered to your attention are the following: We propose to abolish the territorial restriction for holding a referendum, that is to say that Bulgarians abroad can also participate in holding and holding a referendum. This corresponds to the demands, wishes and attitude of Bulgarians abroad. We propose to specify the fulfilment of the legal requirements where a non-compliance of the file is found. This is because of imperfections in the current regime and because of the evidence that this order can be counterproductive in view of our experience with previous initiatives. In case other general elections are produced in the calendar year, we propose that a referendum should be combined with the other type of general elections. In this regard, we also specify the interaction in holding a referendum, together with local elections and we have proposed to assign competence to municipal electoral committees. The last more substantial proposal concerns the commitment and attitude of political parties on issues related to the attention of citizens, given the possibility that political parties may be an entity to register and participate with a position in the consultation of citizens. We believe that this is the more honest position, as political parties are legitimate, a legal representative of citizens in the implementation of public power. We rely on your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u16	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. We have heard the presentation of the four bills on behalf of their importers. The debate is open. Mr. Lutvi Mestan will be the first to take part in it. You have the floor, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in view of the very broad point of view, I am even tempted to use the expression'sweetly' broad political agreement on the submitted bills, we felt that it is useful for the debate to take the first step because we will present our reservations on the submitted bills. With the exception of the Bill submitted by GERB, which proposes extending the right of Bulgarian citizens to participate in referendums, the right of voters abroad to participate in referendums will not be supported by the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. There is no doubt that the urgent entry of the amendments on the agenda coincides with the President's initiative to put three issues in a referendum. And that is why we will present the reservations of the DPS Parliamentary Group on the draft laws through the prism of the analysis of the Head of State's initiative, Madam President, and therefore I ask you not to be tempted to comment on me that through this analysis I would deviate from the main topic of the debates today. In the end, it's all about a referendum. There is nothing more natural than to evaluate the bills through the prism of a specific initiative for holding a referendum. A few general considerations. There is no doubt that the direct inquiry very often labeled democracy itself, because the democracy of the procedure is a direct inquiry to the people, it seems that it cannot be questioned. Yet the apparent democracy of a procedure is not an absolute condition for achieving a democratic result. It is no accident that the Bulgarian experience in holding referendums is more with a negative sign. Through direct consultation with the people, honourable Members, totalitarian regimes have also been established, totalitarian constitutions have been adopted. Through the seeming democraticness of the procedure, the people say, and we take into account the implementation of non-democratic ideas and pushes. In this sense, if you accept the principle as unconditional because it is the result of a referendum, ergo is absolutely democratic and undeniable, why should we question the Communist Constitution adopted with nearly 100% participation of Bulgarian citizens in the poll? Of course, I could make a retrospect and unsuccessful referendums from the newer history of Bulgaria. I am talking about the history of the transition, and thank God, because if these referendums had happened, today Bulgaria would have had another historical destiny. In 1999, if a referendum had to take the decision to give an air corridor to the NATO Air Force, Bulgaria would not have received an invitation to join NATO because the result was predictable, clear. That is why we say our second most important consideration. It should not be overreacted with referendums, because very often the result of them follows the conjuncture of dominant moods in society. But not always the moods of the day, not always the emotion of the day are in line with the strategic goals of the Bulgarian state, with the strategic Bulgarian national interest I ask: did you put the right, centre and left I am talking about the system parties that Bulgaria's strategic interest after the transition from totalitarianism to democratic civil society was related precisely to the implementation of the country's membership in NATO and in the European Union? No doubt this is the strategic interest of Bulgaria. However, if the politicians of the Thirty-eighth National Assembly then managed the majority of the ODS, with Prime Minister Ivan Kostov, had not taken their responsibility, but had hidden behind the referendum and decided after holding a referendum to give an air corridor to the NATO Air Force, you know that 80 percent of the Bulgarian citizens, visible from all sociological surveys, would say "ne." With this, we did not become a member of NATO. There is negative experience in Europe as well. It was the referendums in the Netherlands and France that failed a unique idea for the European Union to have its common Constitution. I'll be tempted to give the example with Crimea. Crimea was annexed after a referendum. Is this result democratic? If you apply the principle absolutely, you will have to say yes, but we say no. Once again: the only criterion for the democraticness of a procedure is the achievement of a democratic result. The moods of the day do not always lead to a democratic result. And that's why it's political responsibility. I don't oppose the people's will. The question is not whether referendums should be held or not. The issue is the precise selection of topics, the question is that, through referendums, political parties should not run away from their responsibility and not hide behind the back of the sovereign. One more thing needs to be considered, and this is the main risk associated with referendums. When representative democracy makes its decisions, the responsibility for the wrong decisions is very clear to the majority responsible, and to parties that have supported one or the other wrong decision. And here are the social vents. The wrong person loses the next election, political forces come, who will correct the wrong decision. The political process will follow the logic of the country's strategic national interest. If it's not just a political mistake, it's a crime, there's a court for the law-givers. However, when we talk about the referendums, I mostly address the lawyers, the Presidents of the National Assembly, you will have to agree that the whole-built Bulgarian people are facing as a single political entity. Then whose responsibility is it for the wrong decision? The 1999 decision would have been wrong. Yes, the sovereign is not wrong, and that is why there is no one responsible for the results of the referendum, the social outlet of the serious consequences of a wrong decision is lost. The people can't be punished, the people can't be called for responsibility. And yet we ask the question of responsibility. It belongs to those who would initiate a referendum that would give the wrong result in view of the country's strategic national interest. Let's go back to Bulgaria. Who needs to be asked questions today, whose answers, given the dominant moods, and in this case I will also say passions, are clear. We argue that on all three issues of mandatory vote, majority vote and e-voting, the result of the referendum will be positive. Far from it, however, we are not convinced that it will be right. Then who needs to be asked questions whose answers are clear? What are the real motives for submitting the proposal for a referendum? Political experience teaches us not only to look at the writings but also the unwritten motives. We will, of course, be honored to comment on the written motives. Regarding the mandatory vote, we are told that it will increase voter turnout. Excuse me, activity is a function of the free will of Bulgarian citizens. High turnout by force is not activity. It's coercion! Straight-up duress! Such an approach not only will not correct the curvature of the political process, not only will it not cure the plagues of the political system, but will deepen these ulcers, because it will lead to an even greater distortion of the same process. If any voter turnout in Bulgaria seems to be low, I am ready to argue with him because against the real number of voters the turnout in Bulgaria is not only high, it has the highest comparative values within the European Union. We are reporting 50 percent voter turnout, colleagues, compared to 7 million voters, but compared to 5 million real voters, this is an extremely high turnout. However, if we think it is low, we ask whose responsibility is the unvoked citizens, or our politicians, because we have failed to gain their trust? Then why are we turning the responsibility around? Why punish the voters, why force them to give us a higher representation to enter this room? Let us reform ourselves, let us become more attractive and then we will enjoy a much higher turnout. The example of Sarnitsa should be self-sufficient about 100% turnout. There's a cause, there's emotion, there's a real motive! Real alternatives as candidates, as political platforms. Since we have brought things to the point that a significant part of the Bulgarian society does not see its representation in any of the political forces, we will now force them, they do not want to vote, even with hatred, with disgust and disgust. Excuse me, it's not only not liberal, it has nothing to do with our understanding of democracy. Because it's ready to replicate, let me do a douche prep. Imagine in a Burgas village on a runout to appear candidates on the Patriotic Front and on the "Attack." You're gonna force a DPS voter to vote for one of them?! He will be forced by law! That's exactly what he's after! And second, if somewhere else a candidate of the DPS and one of the coalition partners of the Reformation Block appear to run away, though this is unlikely [[single applause from DPS]] You will force the MPs of Ataka and the Patriotic Front to vote for one of them? Guys, it's not serious! Do not forget one more thing: that by introducing a lower threshold of mandatory challenge of a referendum and especially with the mandatory nature of the referendum, fellow lawyers, you are setting a new subject not only of the legislative initiative, but a new subject of the adoption of the Law, because the subsequent act of parliament is purely formal. He is now in a regime of obligation to respect the outcome of the referendum, whether it is in line with the country's strategic objectives or not. I know what is at the heart of the idea of introducing a mandatory vote and this is the unwritten motive with which this referendum was initiated. This is the absolutely deceptive thesis that the votes for the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are a constant and, in this sense, the representation of the DPS in parliament whether it will enter with 25, 30 or 38 MPs is a function of the variable and the variable is the turnout. Wrong thesis! Track the vote curve for the DPS! It moves from 279 thousand votes in 1994 to 600,000 votes in 2009. The difference is times! In addition, those who make these wrong calculations will indeed have their hopes smoldered. But if that is the motive, I do not want to imagine that the Head of State is filing a referendum on his own for the mandatory vote, sharing this dark-headed push of the political forces that do not hide that this is their actual motive to support the mandatory vote. You're gonna stay fooled. That's what time will tell you. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I have the feeling that the importer and the supporters have the clear awareness that to Bulgarian citizens today's reality does not seem very joyful and this is an undisputed fact. Political frustration is replaced by belief in the messiahs. Unfortunately, the magical resources of the Persian messiahs have already been exhausted because they have never been available. Faith in the Persian messiahs is dead and an attempt is made to replace it with something else, with the magical power of the megaids changes in the Constitution, referendums, on the principle of the poet, who had said:... and since there is nothing, I will feed you with the vera, not the believe, but the truth, because it is from the Pirin region that life will come better than a song, better than a spring day. No, life will not come better than a song and better than a spring day! Or if it happens, it won't happen because of the referendum, but if we do our job if we reform ourselves and increase turnout. I'm graduating. Today, those who initiate a referendum do not even ask the people, they express a position. We heard the address last night. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] There is no such question. The importer asks for an answer for both the mandatory vote and the majority system and the electronic vote. For the e-vote, we will say "yes" under certain guarantees that mechanisms for guaranteeing the vote will be developed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u18	Time's up, Mr. Mestan. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u19	I graduated, Madame Chairman. Once again: it is an illusion that by reforming the electoral system, the political system can be reformed. There are quality systems politically based on proportional vote and those of majority. It's a matter of policy quality and politics. The other is an illusion - another illusion that we feed the Bulgarian people. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u20	For the first line, Mr. Slavcho Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Winston Churchill had said that the democratic system was imperfect, but there is no better invented than it has ever been, and the strongest weapon of this system is the referendum. I agree with the previous one: yes, the referendum is perverted, but it is perverted in totalitarian systems. And the example he gave was incorrect because it was from these particular totalitarian systems. He spoke of the Constitution, which was voted in 1971, but it was voted under a totalitarian regime and under dictatorship. Then the referendum is perverted and acquires other qualities. But I will give another example: the most democratic state proven in the world, with the most democratic institutions, is called Switzerland. There are almost all important issues about its structure and its governance being made referendums. Let us not forget our Bulgarian Constitution. It is very clear there: The entire government is derived from the people. Let us not be bigger prophets than the Bulgarian people themselves and let us give as often as possible the opportunity for the Bulgarian people to take matters important to the state. As an old Roman maxim says: "Vox populi "Vox dei! So the thesis that has just expressed itself for 20 minutes, essentially in its very essence, in its genesis is wrong. The more possible it is for the people to be given a referendum, the better and no one can be angry with the will of the people. I repeat, we are now a democratic state, not a dictatorship. Thank you. PRESENT CECCA TSACHEVA: Second line? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u22	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Mestan, I have three comments on your speech. You mentioned about the electoral lists that it wasn't really the number of people who voted. Make it clear from this tribune that you want to clear the electoral lists. Let's do this thing and then see what the real activity is - whether it's small or large. Do it, we'll support you! [[DPS lines.]] You have said several times why this referendum should be held. We ask the people if they want a mandatory vote, we will follow their will. I think it's the right thing to do. You also mentioned a new subject. Who is this new subject? We're talking about the people again. What's wrong with listening to the people and the sovereign what he tells us to do what we're told? [[DPS lines.]] I think that's why we are elected to Parliament to listen to the will of the people and if he wants something, we should follow him. In principle, I feel that we cannot restrict people's right to vote on compulsory voting. Everyone should decide whether to vote or not, but the situation in Bulgaria requires such a mandatory vote. I personally would support it if there is a mandatory vote for an entire election cycle, but in principle it is a democratic right and everyone has to decide whether to vote or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u23	Third line? Here you go, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u24	I will not refer to this long speech for the preliminary dialogue, for the most part a dialogue with the President absent from the House was concluded. My opinion of the current president is known to the public, I will not affect this part. My remark refers to this part of the speech of the Chairman of the Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which dealt with the question of whether it is good to ask the people or not; whether this is sometimes contrary to the strategic interests of the state, or whether it is. From his statement, we learned that it is not good to ask the people every time. My question, then, is it okay for the people to ask themselves when they elect a National Assembly? Is this National Assembly a good choice for example? Because I'd put him on audit, I'd say he's the wrong choice. If we question at all the choice of the people, the people and divide it into a choice in a referendum that can be wrong and a choice for a National Assembly, which is always infallible, then we apply double standards. So my line and my question is: when is the people wrong and when is they right? When choosing a National Assembly, I have not heard anyone say: "This is the wrong choice" or "It is contrary to the country's strategic interests." I would say that at the moment this Chamber of the National Assembly, elected so, is contrary to the strategic interests of our country, but what to do here it is the National Assembly, we accept it, we experience it. However, if we have to ask the people whether or not to be in NATO, it was bad because it is contrary to strategic interests! I think the people should be asked about that, too. He should also be asked about the air corridor that was mentioned. I then actively participated in public events against all this bombing of a neighbouring country and I cannot imagine how Bulgaria's strategic interest allowed to be bombed, no matter where, churches, homes, hospitals as they were. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] We can't apply double standards once the people's choice is good, once the bad.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u25	It's a hole, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Siderov, we are opposed to reopening the issue of NATO. This choice is made. I think this is a strategically correct choice for the country, but you don't worry you will have the opportunity to ask about it as well, and you will most likely get a certain konncture of prevailing moods and with a positive result. And this will be your responsibility, colleagues from the Reformation bloc and GERB. You will give this opportunity to Volen Siderov to ask about NATO as well, I warn on behalf of the DPS Parliamentary Group. [[Applause from DPS.]] Otherwise, Mr. Siderov, you know we're talking about the huge problem of direct democracy interaction. We don't have time to go into the depths of analysis today why, when representative democracy appears. I don't want to bring things back to Athens' democracy, where it was possible, because there were about 200 participants in a general meeting there as well. Not to mention the experience of direct democracy. As far as Mr. Ananiev's reply is concerned, the electoral lists are real, these are Bulgarian citizens. I take note of the turnout among those available in the country because of the 6 million. Five hundred thousand. Bulgarian citizens with electoral rights abroad are 1 million. Five hundred thousand. They should be on the lists because, if they come, they will be able to vote, but if we calculate the activity against those who are here, because not all citizens abroad are given unobstructed access to the polls, as sections are only found in diplomatic representations, so we have an unrealistic percentage of activity. This activity isn't 50. You cannot clear the electoral lists by real Bulgarian citizens, with real electoral rights just because they are abroad. As far as the Patriot Front fellow's line goes, I have a feeling he didn't understand the statement. There is no way to oppose the position of the DPS on the right of the people to rule. The people shall also be pronounced when electing a National Assembly. Of course there should be referendums. The question is on what topics and for what purposes is pure or unclean, the political elite is hiding behind the back of the people. That's the big question. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u27	Do other MPs want to participate in the discussion? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Today we are discussing at first reading several bills concerning the referendum or the direct consultation of the people, who by voting must express their views on an important state issue. I really stress the word 'important'. When it came to important state issues and to consult the people, the Bulgarian Socialist Party had its important responsible and state position. And it's not my own opinion, it's confirmed by at least two historical facts, by two events. The first is the initiative and the participation of BSP in the Bill for direct participation of citizens in state and local authorities, as well as the production of the first national referendum concerning the future of Bulgarian energy, namely the issue of the construction of the nuclear power plant. These irrefutable historical facts give the role of BSP today as the main expressor and guardian of politics and philosophy of direct democracy. Today, we need to raise the issue of participation in direct democracy and the objectives that are achieved through it and its separation from representative democracy. Today, there are no statesmen here, but we are dealing with what they have created - the maiming of this Law with the principle of commitment to the referendum with the number of voters in the last parliamentary elections - a principle which was also defended by Mr. Parvanov. I hope that this genies of colleagues from the ABB and their parliamentary group, as importers of one of the bills, which reevaluates this principle, are not dictated only by coalition policy, populism, but to be an expression of an actual sense of direct democracy. It is obvious that the GERB Bill aims to support the presidential initiative, but legislation created and passed to raise only the rating of any politician is not good and difficult to find stability in the future development of public relations. That is why today the BSP, like our parliamentary group, is once again called upon to protect the highest value of a parliamentary republic, a pluralist system, namely the right of a sovereign to express his free opinion and to demand its implementation, when it comes to it, I repeat, for important state issues which are relevant to the development of our society as free, independent, fair and social. Indeed, for the issues initiated by the President, although this is not the issue today, we must first answer how important they are, how much they contribute to the development of our society, namely as a free independent, fair and social one. An informed vote must indeed be taken on these issues, which will obviously take place despite the opinion and opinion of colleagues from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, the opinion and opinion of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria. Then Bulgarian citizens and our society will take a truly informed, truly dignified choice so that we can develop as a rule of law, a Member State of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? You have the floor, Mr. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Popov! I take the opportunity to make a reply about your speech. Firstly, I would like to say that our proposal for a change in the Law on the referendum is not a genies, it is evolution, because always, even President Parvanov, who you are quoting, has helped hold referendums, and this referendum, which was held for Belene, was with his active participation. I believe that evolution has always existed with us and will exist, and where there is no evolution, there is hardness, but it is not found in our party, but in others.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u31	Thank you, Mr. Kuchukov. Are there any other lines? I won't. Mr. Popov, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will not question whether this position is evolution or genesis, whether it is a revolution within the ABB, but I really hope that this evolution is dictated, as I mentioned in my statement, by the real sense of direct democracy and not by the support of the ruling coalition and the questions asked by Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. For a statement is the word of the People's Representative Christian Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, it has become clear from both the reports read and from the opinions of the importers and from the discussion which has developed so far that the Act in force on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government is imperfect, with its imperfections being found in several groups of issues. The first group of questions are related to the required number of signatures in order to initiate a national, respectively local, referendum and part of the draft laws of the colleague Petar Slavov and a group of MPs, and Mariana Todorova and a group of MPs, as well as Volen Siderov and a group of peoples representatives, are looking for a solution to this issue. Of course, we will support them, as this is indeed a problem in collecting signatures to initiate a referendum. IMRO and NFSB, which make up the coalition, are the initiators of such a referendum on the membership of the Republic of Turkey in the European Union, so that we have directly collected signatures and know what are the difficulties in initiating a referendum, precisely with the collection of the required number, so that the referendum can be voted in the National Assembly and then produced accordingly. The second main issue is the issue of recognising the results of the referendum, where the current Law puts an overwhelming obstacle to the requirement of validity for Bulgarian citizens, as they voted in previous parliamentary elections, a condition which clearly currently leads to the fact that we have a dead text in the Law. Almost every referendum that is produced under these conditions will end with only one result, which will be declared invalid. In this way the idea of direct democracy, laid down in the Bulgarian Constitution, is virtually depreciated. As regards the bill of Volen Siderov and a group of MPs, which provides for a referendum to be initiated regarding international treaties that have been ratified and entered into force for the Republic of Bulgaria, we believe that this bill is Mr. Siderov's third draft law, contrary to the principle of international law: "Pacta sunt servanda." Once we have a treaty that has been ratified, entered into force for the Republic of Bulgaria, it cannot be corrected as content in a national referendum. Moreover, this proposal is also contained in the second submitted bill, so I see no point in repeating it in a separate bill. This proposal, anyway, already exists, so this bill will not be supported by us. We will support the draft legislation tabled by the honourable President of the Legal Commission, Mr. Kirilov, which clears some procedural issues related to the production of the referendum, introduces the possibility that the municipal electoral commission will also be a committee to produce the referendum when we have produced at the same time a national referendum and elections for local authorities. As for Mr. Siderov's first Draft Law, which provides for mandatory voting and educational censure, we also state our support for him not only because we are supporters and as the main point of our Programme is the mandatory vote, but also because an educational value for a referendum may develop a discussion in the direction that unlike the elections for authorities, the educational censure in the referendum is important for making an informed choice. Each of us, when he appears before the voters in an election campaign, can trust him in the way he exposes the ideas. Even in the way it looks, he can inspire trust and only on this basis to get to the vote. In the referendum, however, we cannot rely solely on the personal qualities of the candidate. In the referendum, the person should have at least primary education, that is, it should be so literate that he can read the question or questions that are asked in the referendum itself. How else do we expect an illiterate person to be able to rule on the issue, and how valid would such a vote be? If we have a small percentage of such voters, this will lead to a distortion of the results of the referendum accordingly. So it should be thought, or at the very least, to discuss this topic, because the opposite would mean that in a number of people who cannot even read their question, we will have a completely distorted result at the end of the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u35	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Dear colleagues, you have the floor for lines. There aren't any. Any other MPs for a statement? Here you go, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like, first of all, to return the conversation and discussion to the main topic, to the essence of today's discussion. We are discussing amendments to the Law for consultation with the people or the referendum, put simply. This does not mean that we are eliminating representative democracy because I have heard such concerns in some of the speakers. In no way does facilitating the consultation of the people end representative democracy. She stays, continues to act the same way she is now. Through these amendments, which we propose on both our part and the other parliamentary groups, we are actually unblocking the current law, which is virtually non-functioning. You know that it is virtually impossible to hold a referendum under the current law, and this possibility must not be excluded. The possibility of asking the people on important issues for the country should not be excluded. What are the important questions? Here is the beginning of a slightly more Jesuit discussion. We just heard a very long speech. If I had to formulate it, to summarize it, it was on the subject of Elite and mass. Yes, this topic has existed since the civilization of elite and mass. The elite has always sought to make decisions and apply them as far away and as secret as possible from the table, from the people. This is a tendencies that arise in the elite at the moment when it becomes elite, when it sees that it can accept decisions, sign contracts, adopt laws, and in its hands is concentrated extremely great power. That is why there is the principle of balance, the people, who with their vision and opinion to land, if they get dizzy in the elite, land it and thus balance solutions that can be wrong. From the speech of one of the speakers we have heard here, the question was whether a consultation with the people could not get a wrong decision. Of course it's possible. I am not saying that the majority of people are always equally informed and, as has been said, do not make their decision under the influence of emotion. Isn't one a combination of reason and emotion?! We can't rule out emotion from human activity. My next question is: is there no possibility of error in the decisions of the elite? Of course there is. I'll set an example in history. The example relates to the obstruction that we have just heard against our proposal to vote on international treaties that have been concluded. Yes, it can be said that this is contrary to international norms, but it is not contrary to the true strategic interests of the country. We are witnesses, and in history, there are examples when what has been called secret negotiation has led to national catastrophes. Those who know history know very well that in 1911 an amendment was voted in the Constitution and it enabled the monarch then to negotiate outside the knowledge of the National Assembly without informing it, meaning to conduct a policy indoors. So what's going on? Well, it was the first national disaster in 1913. Was the elite then less self-confidence than the current elite? No, he also had the self-esteem that governs, that he was given to manage, that he always made the right decisions, that they were strategic. Was it then when Bulgaria decided in 1915 to join the Central Forces, causing the second national disaster and the New York Treaty, that the elite did not think that this was the strategic interest for the country? Of course we'll go to them, they're our partners and so on. Now it seems the same "NATO" is our strategic partner and our interest is there. And if tomorrow, God forbid, there was a national disaster and it was a wrong decision, who would be in charge?! Here it was said about responsibilities. The responsibilities were paid in elections. But elections are kind of a referendum, aren't they?! We see that in elections people are retreating more and less people want to vote. We are now discussing how to get them to vote on whether with fines, whether with any tax preferences. This, however, is an artificial increase in activity. The natural rise in voting activity will come if people see themselves interested if they see part of making politics within themselves. They don't look like them now. They now say: "You, somewhere, decide something, and we don't have a say. " - You say: "Okay, vote! So what if I vote?! I'm not changing anything!..this dialogue has been heard by you and you must have participated many times in it. How do we change that? In my opinion, this is an important public task: how do we raise public, voter turnout? Only if we encourage the public's consultation. We can not become Switzerland and surely not become Switzerland, but take something from the Swiss example so that, on really important issues, people feel asked and respected. Then they will gradually see that they are involved in making important decisions for the country, rather than leaving this only in the hands of an elite, who, in their words, many times deviates from the right path. They're right to think that. This balance we're looking for right now, this balance we're dealing with with with these adjustments. Again: this is the first reading. Let's approve all repairs. Then, at a second reading, to be precise, but now let us not reject the proposals that "Attack" proposes in both committees were rejected. In my opinion, there was not enough analysis and comment. There was no analysis, no opinions were expressed, and on the principle that this parliamentary group is importing it on this principle. Let us now break this principle and accept the proposals offered by our parliamentary group and other importers. In this way, we want to show that we want to consult the people, and we do not worry about popular opinion. That would be a good sign from the National Assembly. I am sure that he will increase confidence in politicians, which is now very, very low. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. Do you have any lines, fellow Members? I won't. Any other speeches? Mrs. Maya Manolova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u38	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! BSP has proven in its history that it is about the wide participation of citizens in government and local government. Confirmation of this is the fact that the first Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government, the first law on referendums was proposed precisely by the BSP and adopted in the Fortyth National Assembly, in which the BSP was the largest parliamentary group. Of course, this Law, as the first attempt to settle this matter, suffers from serious imperfections, has been mutilated to a large extent in its adoption due to the lack of sufficient parliamentary majority and sufficient support from all parliamentary groups to support the broad introduction of referendums in our country's government. However, I do not agree with the assessments that the Law on referendums makes it impossible to hold them, because at least BSP was once again the first party to hold the first national referendum after collecting an unprecedented signature on its size, with over 700 thousand. the signature of Bulgarian citizens, which grew into the first national referendum in our newest history! However, as the organizers of a petition and as organizers of a referendum, we cannot disagree that some of the conditions that act in the Law are excessively restrictive and therefore we will support four of the submitted bills, the reduction of the number of signatures required to provoke a national referendum and the threshold of its validity. Moreover, we will submit our proposals between first and second reading to reduce both the number of signatures and the conditions for validity of local referendums, because the local referendum is one of the most effective forms for the participation of citizens in local government and local self-government. There is no dispute that many of the important issues for local communities should be resolved precisely by consulting citizens through local referendums. So you have our full support for reducing the thresholds and other improvements in the submitted bills. Since for part of the parliamentary groups, which are importers of bills and so enthusiastically supporting the idea of holding more referendums, to ease the conditions under them, this is a position which is stated for the first time, we suspect that this is even clear to all MPs, that part of the parliamentary groups submit draft laws or will support a reduction of the thresholds with a simple, political conjunctive goal related to the referendum, the proposal for which was submitted by President Plevneliev literally yesterday. In this regard, I would like to warn the MPs that there is no way that the rules of the game can change during a game. We can't change the rules in the middle of the first half, increase the players from 11 to 15 or do another reorganization because that's what one team would use. So all the referendums that have been launched at this time, both national and local, there is no way, such are the rules of democracy and the rule of law, should continue in the current order. That's parliamentary practice. Since most of the speakers so far have put to comment the issues raised by President Plevneliev, with reason, because this is the upcoming referendum on the will of the majority, which will be held together with the local elections, and this is one of the reasons why the ruling majority should put the referendum laws on the table at this very moment. I will refrain from commenting on the issues proposed by President Plevneliev, but I would like to ask the MPs in this House: is President Plevneliev obliged to comply with the laws and should President Plevneliev, when proposing to the MPs a national referendum, comply with the current Law on referendums? Does President Plevneliev, like any other ordinary Bulgarian citizen, have to comply with the current Law? If there is a MP who believes the president is above the law, I suppose he will state it in his reply to my speech. Why am I saying this? Because by submitting his proposal for holding a national referendum on 3 June, with the same questions already rejected by the National Assembly, President Plevneliev violates the Law on referendums! The Act in force on referendums in art. 12, para. 9 makes it clear that a new petition, a new proposal for a referendum can be made one year after the decision of the National Assembly, which rejected the proposal. That is, after the National Assembly rejected President Plevneliev's proposal on 17 June last year with three similar questions, if the President respects the Bulgarian laws, he should wait until June 18th and then submit the exact same proposal again. So if Plevneliev wants the MPs to support his proposal, including the MPs from our parliamentary group, to be so kind as to withdraw the proposal for holding a referendum and submit it on June 18th, respecting the current Bulgarian law, complying with the current Law on referendums! Otherwise, this whole legislate exercise, including today in plenary, has proved to be pointless to change in the Law on referendums. Since even the President does not comply with the Law on such an important topic as the initiation of a national referendum, what is left for the other Bulgarian citizens? So again, I call on Plevneliev to withdraw the referendum proposal, his lawyers to read the Law and, on June 18th, after the one-year period of rejecting his proposal a year ago, to be so kind if he still supports this idea, to submit it. Then the MPs will look at it, we will say our arguments for and against and I suppose that we will even support at least two of the questions he has proposed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u39	Thank you, dear Mrs. Manolova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will ask very simply: should Mrs. Manolova comply with the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly? We are currently discussing several first-reading bills, we are not currently discussing the President's initiative. I don't even officially see what's going on in the D.C. so we can discuss it. So it seems to me that Mrs. Manolova can abide by the Rules, there will be debates on the other subject, and now we have to focus on what is on our agenda. However, as far as the things said here are concerned, I am glad that Mrs. Manolova takes it as a recognition on behalf of the BSP that the referendum, which was initiated by over 700 thousand. Bulgarian citizens with a signature were then purposefully failed by the BSP and the majority around the BSP Coalition "Golden Finger." This is how I accept it and thank you for this speech. It was nice to hear you really ruined that referendum.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u41	Any other lines? I won't. Mrs. Manolova, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u42	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Slavov, I expected that, in replicating me, you will answer the question I asked, namely: should President Plevneliev comply with the Law, or is President Plevneliev free to disregard the current Bulgarian legislation? That's the question. And answer me: why, if for Bulgarian citizens, including importers of petitions for a referendum, is there an obligation one year after their proposal is rejected, not to submit the same signature, the President is above the Law and without waiting for the one-year deadline, on 3 June submitted his proposal?! Since you read the letter and the comma, answer me this question. Regarding the infringement of the Rules, excuse me, the return to the discussion of previous referendums and the asking of such absurd questions is also not very much in the framework of the Rules. But I will answer you who tried to ruin the referendum on Belene the parliamentary majority that edited the issue in a way that crippled it! You've changed the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u43	Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u44	Even more so, then this majority made the circus after it had 700 thousand. the signature of Bulgarian citizens, 48 MPs to bring another issue, which is on the same subject and which will be imposed on the issue of the 700 thousand Bulgarian citizens! In fact, people answered the question of 48 GERB MPs, who, after having submitted a question after voting on the issue of a referendum, after having had to be for the referendum, as it was on their proposal, then voted against This schizophrenia that then developed in the parliamentary majority [[Shouting from GERB: "Eee! "]] I couldn't help but confuse people. But in my opinion, when one is speaking from this platform, one must cook, including Mr. Slavov, one must read what happened to this referendum, how it was discussed, how it was edited! In this regard, in order to make it easier for you, honourable Mr. Slavov, honourable Members, I am showing you the parliamentary transcription of 17 June 2014! [[Shows it.]] Point one and only at this extraordinary session of parliament is a decision on a proposal for a national referendum tabled by the President of the Republic of Bulgaria and on a proposal for a national referendum tabled by the Initiative Committee! On 17 June a year ago, parliament rejected Plevneliev's proposal for a referendum on electoral legislation. Plevneliev had to wait for June 17th [[the President signals that time has run out]] and if he wanted to comply with the Law and receive support from the people's representation, to submit the request with similar three questions on June 18th! That's the problem!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u45	The weather, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u46	Why change the law if even the president doesn't respect it? [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u47	Are there any other speeches? [[Noise and lines.]] Just to remind you that we have enough legislation to discuss six, and we should not deviate from the President's proposals. The discussion hasn't started yet.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u48	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! We will support the Bill submitted by us, by ABB and the third proposal, which is by colleagues from GERB. Several extremely manipulative statements were said by this tribune, which are not true. First, we were told just now that it was almost good practice during the game not to change the rules, there was no such thing! And, you know, talking about new MPs who haven't looked at what's going on in this room for years, I'd accept it, but I'm witnessing how these same people introduced an 8 percent barrier to coalitions two months before the election, when it was profitable for them. The same people who are now pretending to be Democrats and saying how they never changed the rules of the game during the first half, and I see that those who claimed to have been such Democrats started to leave the Chamber by reminding them of that fact. Next, another prominent democrat from this tribune said that with these reliefs that we are now accepting and allowing for lower thresholds and easier procedures to have referendums more often and to be valid, it is almost tomorrow that they will ask us about NATO and as we would then do. The Law clearly states that under existing international treaties, again, we cannot have referendums under existing international treaties. Similarly, there can be no referendums on tax matters. This is another manipulative and false statement, because, see, the problem is that when you can't tell yourself the real motives that you don't want a referendum, you don't believe in the procedure, you start looking for fictional motives to hide behind, because you can't tell the public the real reason, and it's this: you just don't believe that. No parties that have excluded their preferential elected MPs have quickly excluded them, are now talking about majority voting, referendums, believe in such a system. That's impossible. There are other parties that are about to exclude their preferential elected MP. Of course they won't support the idea of more majority in the electoral system. But in the end, the most important thing is that we are far from the local elections now, so the thesis of how almost the match started, the first half is over and here some people are trying to change the rules is absolutely false, sorry! If you just don't believe in referendums, you don't want people to make referendums, to participate, to answer questions, if that's your problem, it's yours and it's not solved because there are other people who are obviously the majority in this room now who want to give the public the opportunity to have referendums, to be successful and to be on key issues that concern the Bulgarian society. Colleagues, we from the Reformation Block will support these three proposals, which allow more participation of citizens in referendums, consultations to resolve the key issues of Bulgarian society in a democratic way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Do you have any lines, fellow Members? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. Please, the Quaestors, invite your fellow Members to the Chamber. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government, No 454-01-21, submitted by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. The Committee on Legal Affairs is of the opinion not to support the Bill. Please vote. They voted 136 MPs: 18, against 77, abstention 41. The bill hasn't been passed. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government, No 454-01-22, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. The Committee on Legal Affairs proposes to the National Assembly to support the bill in the first vote. Please vote. They voted 141 MPs: 45, against 39, abstention 57. The bill is not supported by a first vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government, No 554-01-37, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 18 February 2015. The Committee on Legal Affairs suggests that the National Assembly should not support the Bill. Please vote. They voted 144 MPs: 9 against 79, abstention 56. The bill was not adopted in the first vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on direct participation of citizens in government and local self-government, No 554-01-65, submitted by Mariana Georgieva Todorova and a group of MPs on 1 April 2015. The Committee on Legal Affairs proposes to the National Assembly to support the bill in the first vote. Please vote. They voted 132 MPs: 87, against 20, abstention 25. The bill was passed in the first vote. [[Applause from ABB.]] Come on in, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u50	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The result of the vote has shown some hesitation in plenary, so I propose a re-vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u51	It's a re-vote. As long as he's hesitating, someone hasn't been able to vote. They voted 113 MPs: 60, against 20, abstention 33. The bill was not adopted in the first vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on direct participation of citizens in government and local self-government, No 554-01-72, submitted by Petar Vladislavov Slavov and a group of MPs on 8 April 2015. The opinion of the Legal Commission is that it proposes to the National Assembly to support the bill in the first vote. Please vote. They voted 109 MPs: 43, against 20, abstention 46. The bill was not adopted in the first vote. Come in for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm asking for a re-vote. Some of the colleagues could not vote, others hesitated, so revoting. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u53	Revoting procedure, please. They voted 103 MPs: 41, against 21, abstention 41. The bill was not adopted in the first vote. I am now putting to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on direct participation of citizens in government and local self-government, No 554-01-99, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 22 May 2015. The Committee on Legal Affairs proposes to the National Assembly to support the bill in the first vote. Please vote, honourable Members. They voted 120 MPs: 96, against 5, abstention 19. The bill was passed in the first vote. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Don't worry, I won't ask for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u55	There's no way.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u56	One extension, colleagues. Yesterday we voted to extend the deadline on the proposals for amendment and supplement to the Law on Structure in the territory, but in the shorthand for the one Draft Law there is an incorrect record of something else, so please, on the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure to extend by three weeks the deadline for proposals between the two readings under the Law on Construction in the Area, vv. No 554-01-29, submitted on 11 February 2015 by Petar Slavov and a group of MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u57	You want the maximum term?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u58	Yes, maximum deadline, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u59	Thank you. Please, honourable Members, vote on the proposal made by MP Petar Slavov. Cancel the vote! [[Noise and lines.]] It's 11.29. I'm calling a 30-minute recess. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u60	Honourable Members, we shall continue the sitting with: THE SECOND READING OF THE LAW FOR DELIVERING AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR HEALTH RESPONSE. We're at §1 now. Yesterday the MPs Hassan Ademov, Maya Manolova and Dimitar Bajraktarov spoke. Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u61	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! This text suggests that the National Health Insurance Fund will now purchase and not pay for the medical services. We suggested that this text be dropped. What are our motives for this? Health insurance is the collection of sickness insurance contributions by insured persons, citizens, in a insurance institution such as the National Health Insurance Fund. In the event of a need for treatment, the insurance provider shall pay for this treatment to the insured persons. In this case, the National Health Insurance Fund does not purchase a certain service but pays for it. In the event of certain insurance risks, the service received by the insured person shall be paid. The service is not purchased because no change of ownership is made with its use, but is paid for a quality service. If the National Health Insurance Fund will become an active participant in the health services market, it is logical to look for a lower price. With this, however, I believe that we are endangering the quality of the service they will use and receive the health-insured citizens. With the fact that the National Health Insurance Fund, based on the market principle, can become a good player in this market, it will not protect the interests of patients and health insurance. On the contrary, I believe that it will not fulfil its main function by law. The right thing to do is to have competition between medical institutions and to have this competition on the ground of quality health services, the National Health Insurance Fund to determine the exact criteria and follow the choice of the patient. The proposed changes to the Health Insurance Act, specifically with these texts according to the reasons, are aimed at establishing a mechanism for the role and functions of the National Health Insurance Fund. The role of the Cashier is on behalf of its depositors to select the best parameters, the best conditions and to conclude contracts under these conditions. That's the philosophical reason. The purely formal reason that the Minister of Health shared in the Commission is to overcome negative caselaw in this regard. There were clear judgments in which the court referred to that, after writing a letter of payment, it meant that you should pay. That's a quote. There are many performers of black activities who have condemned the Cassata, so she has to pay. Whether they were right or wrong is a separate matter. This is what guarantees the quality, according to Minister Moskov. I absolutely disagree with those motives. After all, when it matters whether we have payment or purchase, after we have received a service, we have accepted it with a document and have accepted it as quality, the payment obligation is a fact. There's no court that doesn't confirm that. So there's no way these motives could be accepted. Where an invoice is issued, it must be paid. Last but not least, I would like to say that we do not accept this change, as we believe that it is contrary to art. 6, para. 1 of the Health Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u62	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovallisky. Are there any lines? I won't. The people's representative, Jevdet Chakarov, has the floor for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u63	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! First of all, I would like to address the honourable Members and, in particular, the doctors, in order to assess very carefully things before we have made a final decision on this case, because there will be very serious changes and consequences with the decision that we would take, namely the serious deformation that such a decision would lead to. The proposal to replace the principle for the NHIF to pay, with a new principle, to buy medical services, above all contrary to the principles on which insurance systems operate. The insurance system does not purchase services but pays for them when certain insurance risks or events occur. This is not a commercial, but an insurance system and it cannot be purchased for a service on behalf of the insured if no event has occurred. The argument that the costs would thus be reduced, such as the Cashier would not only be the payer of a reported activity on the basis of well-formed documents, but would purchase on behalf of health-insured persons for their benefit medical activities is, to put it mildly, untenable. If there is no insurance event, what will the Health Insurance Fund purchase on behalf of the insured? Or if a social security event has occurred, will the Cashier determine how to treat the person? Is she going to decide what medical activity and whom to buy it from? This is contrary to the principles on which NHIF and social security systems were established. I'd say that's a very serious absurd. What does it mean for the NHIF to become a passive payer of the services carried out as an active participant in the health services market, and not only to spend the funds collected for health insurance, but to actively plan, negotiate and purchase for health insured persons the medical activities offered by medical institutions?! I strongly stress this one more time, contrary to the principles of the social security system. Treatment is required when a person gets sick and needs medical attention. What will the Cashier buy before the illness or the insurance event occurs?! Where is this market? How did he develop before he formulated himself and gave way to such a hypothetical situation? This also distorts the functioning of the system in other respects, in view of the fact that not the patient, after being provided, will have the right to choose the medical establishment and the teams in which to treat it, and the Casa will say in which medical facilities and in what way to do so. This is by no means right! There is a violation of the rights of all of us as patients! That's not the right approach. What the Cashier should do in this case is to strengthen control from the preliminary studies that are done for all of us as patients, then.. about the diagnosis, how the treatment is carried out, that is to say to have an extremely active control and effective activity to follow this up so that payment can be made on this basis. We of our political power and I, as a doctor, insist that this be preserved. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Cashier is not a commercial but a insurance company. We cannot change fundamental principles and then wonder how it will function again. I believe that in this case, it is not fully refined as to what consequences this would lead to. I stress, the Cashier is not a commercial, but a insurance company. In view of this, I appeal to all my colleagues and, above all, to doctors, for a very sensible attitude when we are going to vote on these texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u64	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. - What's the line? I won't. The people's representative Emil Raynov has the floor for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u65	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! BSP left Bulgaria very strongly will not support this change. It is usually said: What is it that confuses us so much about the exchange of the word "pay" with "buying"? Well, it confuses us because it would be simpler to write a new Health Insurance Act, to finance health care, than this law after nearly 90 changes again and to turn it upside down again. What's going on here? Dear colleagues, I do not underestimate at all that you are aware of the system, but I am obliged for a last time to warn: each one of us is provided, pays health contributions, the Casa on our behalf must pay the service performed to the medical establishment, which we have chosen by our own criteria and where the medical service has been provided to us. He's got a contract with the Cashier. When there's talk of the Cashier having to, see who to make out with, who not to make out with... We've passed the first step of the medical establishment issued license. There all the authorities of the Ministry go, do checks, issue the license to the medical establishment, that is, it certify that it has the appropriate equipment, the relevant personnel, it has absolutely everything to provide quality medical care. Well, I'm opening up a clamp: it turns out that today they're checking, they're giving a license, they have everything they need; after two weeks they're checking and it turns out that this particular hospital footage is gone, the apparatus is gone. But if these are bad practices, let's get rid of them. It is going to the next level "The Cashier enters into a contract with the relevant medical establishment again on the basis of a permit for activity, again to a house of certificates of colleagues that work there, schedules of the respective colleagues are requested, the presence of the relevant equipment is requested and we do nothing there. Once we go to another level: The cashier will determine by unknown criteria who he will make a contract with and with whom he does not have. Where did that economic right of the patient who had a choice go, the patient after whom the money went, to choose which hospital to be treated, but the Cassata? Personally, I am worried about the context and the next amendments to the Bill, where something even more frightening is being asked: the holder of the Cashier. That's a topic we'll talk about further. But isn't there a danger that the Cashier will become a tool not for politics, but for bad practices? Is there a guarantee? How will the Cashier judge me as a patient where to go and how to heal? All this, honourable Members, shows something very simple: that at the moment the management of the Ministry and the management of the Casa cannot cope with the management of the health insurance institution. And because they can't handle management, they resort to something very bad, something that I thought had been forgotten for many years, a administrative control mechanism that, to think, is still some kind of control, but it's a very bad mechanism. I'm going back further: for the first time this year, hospital budgets have been signed. And when the minister speaks here, you see that the state was the bad owner, I would like to remind you that the bad owner for eight months has been the minister. He's the owner of these hospitals. Does he know what is happening in these hospitals that the state was the bad owner? Somehow we neglect what happens in hospitals, where there's one at a time, two on board members. Somehow we're not looking, and we're reassigning the Cassata to do what the Minister hasn't done yet. Personally, we're not going to support him, and because it changes a lot of things, it's a bad comparison, but I feel like someone's playing with matches in a gunpowder warehouse. Honourable Members, do not support this decision. I see that colleagues from GERB shyly, as always, smile. I notice that neither one of them wishes to take any attitude either for the sake of either, nor against, but not to stand in a false position, that when the gunpowder warehouse goes off, you won't be able to bear it either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u66	Thank you, dear Mr. Raynov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u67	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before going to the vote, I am making a procedural proposal for admission to the hall of the Deputy Minister of Health Boyko Penkov, of Ludmila Vasileva, Director of the Directorate, of Nadezhda Brankovska General Legal Consult.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u68	Please vote on the proposal made by the MP Daniela Daritkova. Vote 99: MPs: 95, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite the faces to the hall. We're going to vote on § 1. First we vote on the proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov. The Commission does not support the proposal. Please vote. They voted 99 MPs: 23, against 58, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of MP Emil Raynov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 108 MPs: 22, against 61, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the text of the importer for § 1, which is supported by the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: 79, against 23, abstention 1. The text of the Commission for § 1 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u69	Under § 2 there is a proposal from the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov § 2 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the National Representative Emil Raynov and a group of MPs: The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports the Commission's text on § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u70	Here you go, Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen! In addition to the main change in Paragraph 2, I would call it a sign change in the Health Insurance Act in seven more paragraphs. With this will most likely remain in the annals of Bulgarian healthcare current minister. We were hoping for a builder model at least on health care, if not a complete demonopolision, and this model is difficult for me to define what it will look like when the universal package of services divide it with the proposals in this Draft for amendment and supplement of the SCI to a basic and additional package. This is actually this fundamental change. So far, on the basis of 8% contributions, every Bulgarian citizen provided received a universal package of medical services covering all diseases. That was NHIF's commitment. This package is currently divided into two, as safe and timely treatment will have only on the basic package, and on the supplementary package, as follows, I will further say. This idea will make Bulgarian healthcare more inaccessible, more expensive, especially given the cost of administration. We also see lobbying texts here, and even a corrupt charge. There will also be discrimination on diagnoses, according to our analysis. We predict the following problems. First of all, we still don't know what the scope of the two packages will be. They will be determined by order, notice, of the Minister of Health. This is once again a concentration of power, as there are other texts in this Law. With this vote, we will provide, as some journalists have said, in his hands an empty check with which he will manage patients' fates and nearly 4 billion health expenditure. Perhaps these packages have not been published on purpose yet so as not to blow this bill up in advance. Secondly, correct insurance will be damaged, will be deprived of everything they pay for if they do not suffer from socially significant diseases. The system doesn't have trust anyway, I don't know exactly what's going to happen. Perhaps, at least that is the way to think and it is rational to think, employers and self-employed can lower their remuneration to the minimum possible values. The alternatives to the supplementary package will be as follows: either you pay cash to be treated immediately, or you pay a private health insurance fund. This is our allusion of lobbying in this direction. You can be admitted immediately, but by cheating with more resourceful administrators. If they take you on another clinical path, you can rearrange someone, but I suppose that everyone knows how to do it except benevolently and by an administrator, or a doctor who gets the corresponding amount of compensation. You can go to another hospital where the limit hasn't been exhausted, but that will certainly mean that the choice has been violated. I turn to the final, again within the framework of this Bill, to the MPs from GERB. Dear colleagues, to my question two weeks ago, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov answered: "Let's give another 10-15 days of time to Minister Moskov. I note that this change is fundamental, some called it not reformation, but distortion of the model. You also have a solidarity responsibility with the importer of these texts. It seems that you have given the Sector a concession of the Reformation Bloc in the face of Minister Moskov. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Allow me just one last sentence. If we see these protests now, they're just the trailer. The real film will be seen after the adoption of this Bill and especially after the adoption of the proposed Law on Medical Institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u72	Thank you, dear Mr. Kardzhaliev. - What's the line? I won't. For speech the people representative Georgi Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! § 2 refers to the basics. I think it is fundamental, although these changes are mentioned in another seven-eight paragraphs, I will start from § 2. What's the current situation? The National Health Insurance Fund covers a basic package, which includes the treatment of all diseases. There is no way to accept, without serious concerns, the separation of this package of health services for payment from the Cashier to a basic and additional. Obviously, Minister, in the Bill this is the main ambition for reform in Bulgarian healthcare. This is obviously the new model of health care in Bulgaria. The Bulgarian citizen against the same health insurance from now on to receive a smaller volume of services. That, of course, sounds a little like a joke. But let's talk about this with the changes proposed in Paragraph 2. It is of the utmost public importance that both my and my fellow importers propose that this paragraph be dismissed. Arguments as many as you want are in number, but the main ones are: the reasons why the separation of health services guaranteed by the budget of the Health Fund into a basic and additional package are not specified; there is no information on the effect that is expected to be achieved with the proposed changes. I hope at least you and the importers will expect that it will be positive, positive and for those insured and only then for the financial stability of the Casa. Another argument: there is no information on the expected financial and, above all, public results. Another argument: In the draft the idea of the two packages is not developed; there is no draft regulation or other document with the vision of the Minister of Health, which will regulate health services in both packages and the conditions for their use by the mandatory insured persons; it is not clear whether they will be financed by the Health Insurance Fund or the patient. All this needs to be made an assessment of the effect of the proposed changes in order to be able to navigate to support or not, this proposal. These packages are not presented and are not at all clear as packages of the disease and there is no clarity of any methodological basis for this separation and criteria for including or not including medical activities. Incomprehensible to me, and not only to me, what will guarantee, in fact, the insurance in the Health Insurance Fund, the initial and the additional package, or just the basic package? If the intentions are in the main package to include and pay only heavy or, as has become popular, socially significant diseases, or those leading to disability, this completely replaces the principle of access, equal treatment and coverage with health care to the mandatory insured persons. It may turn out that a significant contingent of Bulgarians will be left without health care and will actually pay their health insurance and will not receive one. A basic principle in structuring the current main package of activities guaranteed in the budget of the Casa was to contain sufficient coverage, volume and quality medical activities to solve a health problem. Another argument: leaves of waiting will be formed. If this is the health reform, believe me, this will be difficult to accept and bear by the Bulgarian society, and also by the medical specialists. I am very afraid that in many cases this waiting list can become a death sentence and this death sentence weighs on the conscience of the doctor who, believe me, will be forced to decide and choose who to be treated and who to be on the waiting list and not to be treated or with delayed treatment. Once again, I am expressing suspicions that are about to become reality if the House votes for this proposal and is accepted. My suspicions are that health-insured individuals against their money they pay will receive less health services than they have received so far and more and more difficult to obtain. I believe that the changes proposed by § 2 are insufficiently motivated and create an opportunity to limit access to health services, even to persons who are regularly and in good faith. Again, as in the first vote of the Bill, I will ask and it will still be rhetorical: is this the reform you are proposing? And again I would remind you that in the Bulgarian dictionary the meaning of the word "reform" is.... is............. to introduce something new or something better. What could be better for the Bulgarians with this proposal? Health reform should lead to better health care and an extension of the scope of the healthcare services, not to limiting and narrowing them. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I appeal to you to support our proposal to dismiss § 2, as well as the other paragraphs in which this matter is addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u74	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I won't. The Minister has asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u75	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll take the floor on that. Indeed, I would rather follow the discussion, because a lot of time in the Commission is very thorough, very detailed with each text, with every possible doubt of the MPs, we have considered the texts because the bill is important. This is one of the main changes proposed by the government in the draft amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act. This is the place to say once again, because the motives have been repeatedly set out and I take occasion from the speakers. To the question: is this reform, is this the goal and so on? You know, I understand what you're saying in the DPS and in the BSP, because I've read the programming documents of these parties, where for the purposes of the reform, a change of the insurance model, a change of the hospital model, the hospital model, you name it. These are not goals, these are funds, colleagues. I understand that this is an important confusion, but it is time to make it clear to everyone that these are means of achieving a goal. The meaning, the aim of this and the subsequent health bills is another, and it is the only one to which the healthcare system can be subject to improvement of individual and, respectively, as a nation, health indicators. This is enshrined in the objectives of this government, and each of the things listed in this Law and in the subsequent ones are the means to achieve them. What's the situation right now? Every year after that, if you take the last ten years back, if you want to, return as much as you want, and as public spending, i.e. through the Solidar Fund through the Health Insurance Fund, and as an out of pocket, that is, payments from our pocket, we Bulgarians pay more and more for health care. In ten years, this has grown to over 3 billion just as public payments, and so much has grown as payments that people take out of their pockets. If the system, the method of payment, the structure of the system was good, this trend had to show the same trend in improving our health performance as individuals and as a nation, respectively. Except the painting is the exact opposite. The costs are geometrically increased from year to year, and the health performance of the nation is deteriorating compared to the average European indicators. That is, we are paying more and more, and we are getting as a result, not as a number of declared services, paid, unpaid and so on, and as a result on our health we are getting a worse result. This is clearly statistically measurable compared to the statistics on mortality, disability, life expectancy, life expectancy in health compared to any European country. I'm not talking about the old, rich democracies here, I'm talking about the whole of Europe 27, but about the countries of our rug. They pulled on the health of their citizens compared to us. These are the clear facts, and no one will argue with that. When we see this thing, you as MPs must ask the government to oppose this trend. The contradiction on the logical path, whether a person is a doctor or not, looks like this: we identify the causes of these creepy health indicators because they are really creepy in the Commission we presented them and I think that every political force has agreed to this. Isn't that right, Mr. Ademov? [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] No. I am seeking consent because it has been declared in the Commission, and to people it seems something else. Identify the culprits. This is again clear, objective and transparent medical statistics. Once you identify the groups of diseases that lead to 92-95% in each of the years to these health indicators - child mortality, duration of life in a disease much more than the average European of the Bulgarians, early mortality, morbidity and mortality in each of the age groups, including active gross domestic product producing, when you identify them, you have to ask the government to oppose this, to these causes, i.e. to concentrate financial, human and infrastructure resources on them. This is the meaning of forming the main package of the Cashier. The diseases, of which as a nation we individually suffer, die much more, sometimes in comparison with the average European or the small European, must be met with politics. Politics is not to say that it is fine, the policy is to identify the problem and intercept it. The meeting is done in this way by revalued and guaranteeing every Bulgarian citizen, regardless of his social status, poor, rich or very rich, Mr. Ademov, that only against his health insurance, i.e. against the obligation to be insured, he will receive the full treatment set against these diseases. It's called politics. This is called intercepting a real problem with real actions. That's the goal and the concept. The false thesis again quotes the pre-spokesmen each receive everything, and secure and timely treatment for everything, I quote just given arguments. Do you really want to get out of this room and ask the first three people you meet is that true what you're saying about the system now? The other day, I had the opportunity in some interview to say that we talked to the Chairman of the Health Commission. The reform will be successful when my, her, the directors of large hospitals phones stop calling by people with power, with opportunities or with the possibility of a public debate to provide them with what you believe is provided to every Bulgarian citizen at the moment. Because what is valid for the MP, for the top journalist or for the very rich person is not valid for the average Bulgarian citizen. Because the fact that he was provided with everything against all diseases and it was safe and timely is a lie. That's just not the case right now. And regardless of whether you are suffering from a disease that, after two months, will lead you to permanent disability, to death or not, you are obliged to pay practically anywhere, whether you are legally sick through lists, to every Bulgarian clinic, which by law the National Fund does not pay, regardless of whether you will die from this disease, if you have or have no money to pay back, or black, because the real value of this thing is not what it should be, the Bulgarian citizen essentially pays for everything. Well, with the formation of the basic package, the government offers the following contract: for socially significant diseases, those who shape the health suffering of the nation, form 95% of the causes of this health suffering. Our health insurance will be the only commitment we need to have. Things will be valued, things will be fit and functional, and equipment secured, so Bulgarian citizens, once again I say, whether they are rich or poor, will not pay for it and there will be optimal treatment for them. This is the idea of the main package of the Cashier. There's a lack of knowledge of the regulations here, you know? I don't want to get into the details, but because I'm not going to take the floor very often, I'll say there was a concentration of power in the minister who was going to determine the basic and the additional package. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment the so-called General Package of the Cashier, against which everyone received everything free of charge, securely and in a timely manner, I quote again, it is with the Minister's regulation. This is Act No. 40 at the moment. Every former minister has done so and this has not been a concentration of power, but now it will become a concentration of power because something has not saved you. The structures that you have built have made their funding in such a way that they do not refer to the patient, but relate to their business plan, will have to undergo a change. You don't like it, do you? The question is whether he likes the Bulgarian citizens, i.e. different concentration and different powers of the minister, the government does not have in this regard. They're the same as before. However, the government wants to have priorities, to have a policy and to say to the Bulgarian citizens: Against these priorities we are raising the resource that we have. It was a very interesting thesis that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms was hoping for a builder model, but essentially the building model, that is, the additional package of the Casa, with which we allow Bulgarian citizens to use for a real reason an additional fund, was called lobbying in the next sentence. At some point, hope for something becomes lobbying when the government proposes it. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Interesting logic! I can talk more. Madam President, I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u76	Ten minutes on this issue, we're not getting anywhere. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, this is the text that some call the guide of the reform, but my concern is, I want you to hear this, Mr. Minister, before you leave, [[M Minister Petar Moskov goes to the MPs from the Reformation Bloc]] This nail can at some point become a nail in the coffin of health insurance. Now I'm going to try to argue why I'm saying these not particularly facial words, including me. I'd like to begin with your account of the fact that the status quo is currently not satisfying anyone. The story, Mr. Minister, that the current situation does not satisfy anyone, that the Health Insurance Fund, as stated in the Law, pays all the services, of course, that it is inconclusive, but the re-story that you want to present to us that from now on in the implementation of health objectives there are guarantees that what enters the basic package will be at 100 per cent paid is even less convincing. First, an empty check. There is no regulation to define those diseases, even though they are clear. At this point, they're gone. There's no price. What do you think is the reason why, within the framework of the basic package, priorities are not defined on the basis of the implementation of health objectives and that these clinical pathways are not normally financed? Is there a reason?! The only reason is political will. If you have such political will, you say: The main priority package is the diseases from which you suffer, as you said, the Bulgarian citizens, finance these clinical pathways at 100 percent and the issue is closed. Why do you want to hear at the moment if the Bulgarian citizens are satisfied with the current situation and at the same time do you not want to hear from what you are proposing? [[Reply from Minister Petar Moskov.]] I didn't defend, and I never did, unlike you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u78	Please do not enter into direct dialogue with each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, you were the man who claimed that the National Health Insurance Fund should be closed and the National Insurance Institute should have a base package with building packages. You have the right to evolution in thinking, and we don't. Is that how I understand it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u80	Evolve.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u81	I mean, you admit what I just said. Mr. Minister, I want to tell you something that is extremely important. In order for any insurance system to function normally in order for it to meet public expectations, there must be confidence in it, firstly, and secondly, there must be solidarity, because with this project you are crushing solidarity. His Majesty, or as the chancellor's name is there years ago, Otto von Bismarck, if he hears what you're doing right now, he will surely turn in his grave. Be sure of that! Because without solidarity, there is no insurance model. Solidarity is thus breaking down. You claim that it should be paid only for socially significant diseases. Given that there is one funding body, given that there is no real competition between medical institutions, given that everyone pays the same insurance contribution, where will one get a hundred percent of free help, as you call it, and the rest will be forced to provide additionally in health funds, to pay cash or not, where does this difference come from? Does the insurance model apply to both packages, or does it only apply to the base package? These are the questions that have no answers. That is why our Parliamentary Group will not support this text. Not because we are against reform and against changes in the system. We in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms have proposed the most radical options for changing the system. We haven't met any support! We got our vote of voters based on what we did and what we didn't do. Please, from now on, do not use expressions of the kind of support the status quo, you have agreed, you have not agreed. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u82	Any lines to Mr. Ademov? I won't. Ms. Karayancheva's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u83	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister! In view of the fact that the moratorium that we have adopted in the National Assembly for the export of wood expires, and since the Commission already has a report on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests, I propose that a change in the agenda of the plenary session for tomorrow's first item be this Draft. Please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u84	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put the motion to vote on the first vote of the bill for amendment and supplement of the Forest Act, which is included in the programme for this week, to be the first item tomorrow. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion is accepted. The word is Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! In fact, I have taken the floor because I think there are several things on this important bill which, as shown in the plenary, will be accepted for two months. That's how I see the pace we're walking, but that's the reality. In fact, I think it is right for you to know a little more about this change, which is really important, a fundamental one, to dispel the speculations that have been made by the negotiators, because, honourable Members, the bill itself is extremely bound within the individual members. A little while ago, the speaker said there was no regulation. Well, colleagues, how can there be a regulation that has never been a major and additional package? However, the honourable Members who are trying to insinuate these nonsense to you if they had read § 11. 45, para. 2 They would have seen that there was provision for the provision of a regulation with the relevant criteria. Moreover, in order to avoid any manipulations that are being referred to here, on a proposal from the Patriotic Front, a deadline has also been introduced for this regulation to be amended once a year. Yes, in some very serious debates were adopted these texts, which were attended by both the Bulgarian Medical Union and patient organizations and many other medical organizations. What's interesting? The interesting thing is that all of these previous colleagues of mine know perfectly well that it is from the Bulgarian Medical Union that these regulations and the negotiations on them take place within 3 months. The talks and the negotiations for all of this take place for 3 months!? That's about why the regulation's gone. She's gone because the law hasn't been passed. Secondly, I feel that some colleagues are living in some other reality. On 30 March, I said this in public, I shared it with the Minister publicly, I carried out a simple inspection at the Urology Clinic at Pirogov. [[Noise, laughter on the left.]] When I say "inspection," I mean some kind of my own citizen alert check. [[Laughter]] It must be very funny to you, but I remind you that in art. 137 of the Rules of this National Assembly, which you voted on, and you, the people's representative has the right to receive any kind of information from state, municipal institutions and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u86	But not to do inspections.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u87	Which is in connection with his duties.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u88	As a lawmaker.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u89	As a lawmaker. And because we created the Health Insurance Act, so that I could see how things really are in practice, early at 6:00 a.m. I went to see how the so-called non-waiting reception took place, but a planing reception took place. Because there is no such thing as waiting. There is a concept of a planing reception. The operations are planned in advance, a date is set and on this date people from all over Bulgaria go to the magnificent specialists in this Urology Clinic. I have to tell you that that day, by some coincidence or accident, we ran into Mrs Cornelia Ninova, who said she had no words and couldn't speak, because what happened just took her, figuratively speaking, both mind and word. The woman said her father was accepted and so on. In fact, this is an indicator of the healthcare system in force under the old Law. At 6:00 a.m., 20 mothers with children at a year's age stood on their feet because there was no organization established under the current Law. None! Moreover, many of these mothers have told me that they have to make some kind of payment on some mysterious roads, because it is under the current Law that this unregulated payment is being made under the table so that they can receive the health services.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u90	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u91	This amendment is important. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Madam President. This amendment is important, it is necessary and is bound by the following articles of the Law. So who likes it and who doesn't like it, the truth is that someone is trying to keep the current status quo that drains the casa.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u92	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. First line here, Professor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u93	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Bayraktarov, I'm going to join the nonsense that was just said, and I'm going to make you a brief explanation. The regulation is a regulation issued by the Minister of Health. What you've heard from the Medical Association that you've been negotiating for three years is the National Framework Treaty. These are two very different things that have nothing to do with it. At least the National Framework Treaty has nothing to do with what we're now referring to the regulation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u94	Second line, Mr. Abu Melih. Are you giving up? You're for speaking. Is there a second line? I won't. Mr. Bajraktarov. Colleagues, I invite you to return to the editorials and proposals under § 2. There are enough paragraphs and everything we have to say about the health care system, we will find its place, but please stick to the specific editorials of § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Kuchukov, thank you very much for the line. You very correctly said that the regulation was a regulation. You're absolutely right. If you'd listened to me carefully, you'd have heard what I said. But since you obviously didn't listen carefully to me, I'm still going to repeat to make this regulation under art. 45, para. 2, p. 2 must be passed the relevant Law, which we are currently voting on at second reading. For this simple reason, there is no regulation in which a basic and additional package is included, since such a miracle does not exist under the current Law. I hope you understand that part. In the second part, since you have allowed yourself to distort my words, I will again repeat that there are also shorthands, you can check them out. I have not said that negotiations are under way for 3 years. I have said plainly and clearly, because these were public talks held in the Commission, and some of you were also present in informal discussions with the Minister's team, which is precisely why we have set a deadline of 31 October, which you voted on in the Commission. That's what you voted for.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u96	I voted against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u97	I'm talking about Mr. Kuchukov, not you. So I said that there are 3 months of conversations, and I suppose that colleagues from the Bulgarian Medical Union, your colleagues, have been honest in what they have shared with us because we have shared their speeches so that the Law can be active and working. So don't twist my words, listen carefully, and it's a little late for you to teach me what's legal and what's legal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u98	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u99	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u100	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, with all due respect to the medical system in this Chamber, I feel that in every paragraph the speeches are the same and are repeated. So you will have the opportunity to express your opinion on the next one. I therefore propose that you put an end to the debate on this paragraph to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u101	It's not serious! Why are you avoiding...?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u102	Inverse opinion Mr. Ermenkov. [[Relations between MPs from GERB and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u103	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! We are currently discussing perhaps the most important point in the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Health Insurance Act, and I think it is good to clarify our positions here, because there is no point in talking or not talking about this. It is a question of whether we are going to share the health care of basic and additional patients and patients with basic and additional patients associated with someone, or whether we are going to have a single health care for everyone. I beg you very much, at least to those who have signed up until the time of the termination of my speech, to be given the floor, and not to allow such proposals at all when it comes to health care, when it comes to each of us, to be crushed by the power of the majority of the will of the people's representatives, the voice of the opposition and of civil society. Thank you. I'm making a counteroffer of what Mr. Mihov did.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u104	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. I shall put to the vote the motion to put an end to the debate under § 2. They voted 114 MPs: for 76, against 35, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov to drop § 2, which is identical with the proposal of the MP Emil Raynov and a group of MPs to drop § 2. We are voting on the proposal of Members of Parliament to drop § 2, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 124 MPs: 33, against 69, abstention 22. The proposals have not been accepted. I put the Commission's proposal to vote in favour of the text of the importer for § 2. We are voting on § 2 by importer, supported by the Commission. They voted 122 MPs: 91, against 26, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u105	According to § 3 there is a proposal from the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov, § 3 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the National Representative Emil Raynov and a group of Members of the National Assembly will be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u106	Are there any Members of Parliament wishing to take part in § 3? Mr. Raynov, Mr. Chakarov, then Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I see the carelessness of the parliamentary group of GERB. [[Noise and lines from SG to GERB.]] Everything is clear, everything is great, we stop the speeches, and this is something that all Bulgarian citizens look at, because they are very excited about. Mr. Minister, it's been a pleasure reading even our election program. I hope not as a student in front of an exam.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u108	Mr. Raynov, we are not in the hypothesis of parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u109	I see that not like the students you missed...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u110	We are discussing the Commission's report on second reading. To the MPs, answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u111	Not as a student, but you missed the first sentence that the purpose of any change is better health for Bulgarian citizens. Mr. Minister, with this division of the package in which you have put only the two definitions; where nothing has been written from the meaningful fairy tale that you have told that there will be on the packages; there is nothing in the Law as a definition of what will be in the basic package, what will be in the supplementary package; the bill was not accompanied by a financial analysis of what and how will happen, who, what and where will it pay; there was no famous requirement for any administrative action to assess the impact. Minister, are you sure that this change will really improve the quality of healthcare in Bulgaria?! [[Affirmative nod by Minister Petar Moskov.]] You're sure! You're probably familiar with what came out of the World Bank's Drift data. It is recorded, and I quote, colleagues: Every year 4% of Bulgarian citizens become poor, fall below the poverty threshold due to payments in the health sector. Are you sure that with this change, by which we will already determine diseases and patients who will have to wait and pay back, we will not increase this percentage of impoverished Bulgarian citizens, to continue the division of Bulgarian citizens to those who are able to afford health contributions and those who do not have such an opportunity? You're bringing division even to those who, conscientiously since the dawn of health reform, have paid their dues. You are dividing between those whose diseases will fall into the basic package and will immediately gain access to the health system, and those who, due to the unfortunate fact that their disease is in the second package, will have to wait and are conscientious paying agents. Mr. Minister, you continue to separate society! You asked the question if one of us could go outside and ask the citizens. We go around every year asking questions. What people say is by no means satisfactory. Mr. Minister, you should be worried that we continue to speak only from the opposition here, even those who should support you, I exclude my colleague from the Patriotic Front, although we appreciate his efforts, but this cannot break the silence from the other part of the Chamber by GERB, from your reformers. You're comforting them, but if I were you, I'd be worried if none of them spoke up in defence of what we're doing. However, colleagues are aware that what you are bringing in, Mr. Minister, is an enormous insanity! Once again, think about what the result of what you are proposing will be. We will not support this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u112	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Chakarov has a say in this.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u113	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Minister, there is only one thing I would agree with you about the statement you have just made, namely that the system is currently not functioning well. I'm a surgeon doctor, and I go to the clinic almost every Monday. And that Monday I was there. It's obvious that the coworkers are upset. You know that very well. You pointed out what is the financial framework with which healthcare is currently available in Bulgaria. Despite the contribution of the people, which equals 47%, the system does not function well. Unfortunately, neither doctors nor patients are satisfied. Naturally, all this implies that, honourable Members, there should be reforms in the system. However, what you represent as a reform does not in any way correspond to the content to be reform. It was said by colleagues. The separation of the medical services package violates a basic principle.... the solidarity and equality of patients. At the risk of repeating myself, I will say a few more words in this respect. We're all paying 8% health insurance right now. So far, at one or another extent of covering the clinical pathways, everyone has access to everything. I would like to address both colleagues from GERB and from the Reformation Bloc, to all those who support these changes: from the moment of the vote, to the entry into force of the Law on the other side of a huge package, which you pointed out, as colleagues said, can be 100% covered by the clinical pathways, they will be again with access to medical activities and services. But there will be one part of the population that will pay for their insurance and will not have this access, but will be redirected to waiting lists. The next alternative is to pay out of your pocket or through additional insurance or insurance to receive medical care. Unfortunately, here's a huge inequality. That is, today, with the proposal you are making before the National Assembly, when considering this Draft at second reading, we will adopt restrictions on your fellow citizens who regularly pay their health insurance. By going to the hospital, he will be told: "You are not in this package, this diagnosis is not included and you will not receive medical work and service. The question was correctly raised as to whether an analysis was drawn up to be presented to the Committee on Health and to the whole public at public discussions. Unfortunately, there are no such estimates. The biggest question is: how would this change affect the entire healthcare system? We've never received that answer before. The answer you and your colleagues in the Reformation Block are giving is that this will guarantee at least the basic package! Your argument is lack of money. You contradicted yourself earlier that this is a finding of the World Bank in the report announced these days that Bulgaria... [[Noise in the room.]] May I have everyone's attention, please? ...is the worst health performance in the European Union! And citizens are taking up 47% of the cost of the sector out of our pocket. The World Bank's assessment in this report is that the money in our country is allocated to healthcare is not so little, but it is unacceptable the personal costs of citizens! With what we are doing, we will demotivate a large part of our fellow citizens to pay their health insurance in view of the fact that one part will receive access to treatment, services, activities, and those who do not fall within the package that you are talking about... In addition, waiting lists, the transfer through additional payment, the colleagues have already said, unfortunately, will create a corrupt environment that is unacceptable and should not be. We put our colleagues in a very delicate situation and position. In what way will they assess whether one patient should be on the waiting list and the other should be accepted and treated, albeit with another diagnosis, with acrobatics? This isn't right for everyone... [[the President signals that time has run out]] in view of the state of health. This division is unacceptable to us. I appeal to my fellow Members once again, honourable Members, all very responsible and consciously to approach the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u114	First line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Chakarov, you just confirmed my words. You have even set an example for a global organization that has evaluated all of what is happening and what is really the worst health care. Except I picked up a line on another occasion. You commented on a large group of people who are making health insurance contributions and cannot have access to a health service. However, you missed a convenient mention of each other, a much, much larger group of people who do not contribute any contributions, but have full access to health services! Moreover, this much, much larger group of people who do not have any contribution to the health insurance system receives expert instructions from party plants on how to circumvent the Law not only in relation to the health insurance system, not only in relation to the Law on Device in the Area, not only in relation to the Law on Civil Registration, not to keep ordering them that, while I arrange them, I can also receive the title of the Professor. [[Happy tidings.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u116	There's no danger of that!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u117	So be more objective when you make such heartbreaking speeches, because the big problem is draining the Cassata from people, first of all, who have no participation and no contribution to this Casa, and, secondly, benefit from all the benefits of the so-called Solidar model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u118	Second line? A hole, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u119	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Bayraktarov, our position is undoubtedly the same on the state of health. The problem that you're referring to in this case is ahead of us. We all know about it, but if we let ourselves discuss this topic... Yes, this is a serious problem that has been discussed, many measures have been taken and our political power has a clear position on this case. A moment ago, I was referring to the higher collection rate and there would be no demitivation by our fellow citizens for the contribution of health insurance. At the same time, Mr. Bajraktarov, you know that in the legislation, even recently in the Committee on Health, we have examined that all citizens have the right to access and should be treated in medical institutions in all emergencies. So let's not move the center. Now we're talking about reform. It is obvious that the health condition is not colorful, there is something to do and how to do. But what is being proposed here today is not reform, it is not what will improve the system. There are no estimates, no analysis based on which to present facts to us by the Ministry of Health, by the Minister, so that we can all be convinced that what is voted on is so! On the contrary, we see and are very worried about what will happen. As my colleague Kardzhaliev said just now, the problems are yet to begin after these texts are adopted and are in force, the relevant legal provisions are in place something of which we are expressing not only concern today, but we are ready to discuss all this. There must be, if necessary, a non-party consensus, to see, to conduct a real, actual, genuine healthcare reform so that it functions in an adequate manner and meets the needs of all of us. And no more World Bank reports on the health profile of the population in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u120	Mr. Secretary, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u121	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Two speculations first that there will be people who will have to pay. There's no such thing. The aim of the extra package is also to lighten the money that is currently going under the table and walking like cash. Cash payment between a patient and a hospital or a doctor will be gone! That's another difference. If anyone's in pain, I'm sorry too. Speculation of why there were no diseases listed in the main package. I say again, and currently Decree No 40 is issued by the Minister. This year, the Minister of Health, after consulting, of course, with the Doctor's Union, with the word organizations, with the Cassata, submitted to Ordinance 40, i.e. in the Casa package, new clinical pathways, they were related to children's healthcare, to children's cardiology. Do you think that such operational activity could be the subject of a law that then, at first and second reading, passes through parliament?! Really?! And third, miracles never stop raining! Bulgarian Socialists refer to the World Bank. Let's say what is the main argument of the World Bank when they say that there should be a change in Bulgarian healthcare.. Inefficient spending of the funds, bad way of financing the system! That's what we're changing with this Law! Only us, the government doesn't need the World Bank to tell us that. As a result of this concept of government reforms, the European Commission, which is also not the main reason, but it is somehow a fact because you started listening to the authorities, downloaded two of the four recommendations to Bulgaria on healthcare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u122	There is a statement written by Mr. Tasco Ermenkov, by Mr. Abu Melih, by Mr. Kuchukov, I think these are the people who made a statement. And so is Mr. Turnovallisky. Mr. Ermenkov had on the previous text, we ended it and he couldn't speak. Let's hear it for him. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u123	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! We've heard a lot of doctors here, let's hear some of the patients, Mr. Mihov. I'm sorry, but if you think health care is only in the hands of doctors...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u124	Please speak on the report and on the texts, do not engage in dialogue with each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u125	All right, Madame Chairman. Thank you. You've been kind enough to give me your word. I won't abuse you. Mr. Minister, on the occasion of the dropout of... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u126	Not to Mr. Minister! Tomorrow at the control of Mr. Minister! Now the second reading report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u127	May I continue?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u128	Maybe, of course, but on the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u129	It's right on the report, and because the Minister said just now, so I'm addressing him as well as my colleagues. And there's hardly any dispute here about what the purpose of health care is. And we all know that it has to be quality and accessible. And we're all talking about this being the case. And we all agree that today is not the case. And that's true, but you're asking with what's currently being proposed in this Bill, if it's going to get any better because... [[GERB lines.]] Madam President, very much please make comments to the Members of the National Assembly if they do not behave properly...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u130	I am making a remark first, common to the Members of the National Assembly. The next one will be named.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u131	In fact, the Minister yesterday made a comparison of health care with gambling and what is currently being offered with dropping the basic package. We no longer have only a comparison of gambling and health benefits, and we already have the way it will function, because, colleagues, what is offered with a basic and additional package is like being obliged to all of us to play the Toto 2 and to pay all our tickets, but some will withdraw the so-called pay ticket and will go to be treated on the basic package, and the others will pray that we do not get that ticket or that luck that is said the package and wonder if they will treat us, when they will treat us, who will pay it and how they will pay it. And I ask: where is social? Where is the accessibility of healthcare? Who will determine the winners and who will determine the losers? And what's more, we're introducing something scarier here than the Toto 2. Those who want to withdraw the ticket with the extra hospital package will also have to pay for it. Besides paying the ticket, they'll pay for the treatment, the reward, so to speak. This will not be the way it operates and finances the activity to happen. And not to mention that after they drop out of the extra and the main package, by doing them in two, we will also move on to the game in hospitals: there is a "no" here. There's a place here for you to be admitted, and here you're gonna be on some waiting list until the time comes for you to be admitted. Colleagues, health care isn't gambling. And I ask you, colleagues of GERB, to also take attitude and at least make it clear to the public that you do not want to have debates on the subject, at least what opinion you have on the issue. Because you keep quiet, but you're trying to crush the debate so that things go quietly under the rug and people don't know what they're talking about. And I address you with the words of Martin Luther King: A darkness cannot drive away another darkness, only the light can do it! Whether you want to be a Diogenes of Bulgarian healthcare and bring light and order into it, or want to become a Herostrat to burn it. Thank you for your attention. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u132	- What's the line? First line, Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, I agree with the analogy with the Toto 2 but there is another episode that is scarier. It concerns doctors because they will actually assume with their conscience the obligation, the commitment, the burden to decide who is on the main list, who is on the additional list, or if not the one to be treated immediately on the supplementary list and who can get on the waiting list. With criteria and regulations, the Minister of Health can rehabilitate formally, in the event of a possible violation, do not give yourself, a death case, the doctor himself, but who will take responsibility for his conscience, for the sleepless nights that await him if a possible patient does not immediately enter for treatment on the supplementary list and something bad happens to his health and his life? That's why I don't accept the thesis, just that it's the Toto 2 that it's gambling. It's a burden, Mr. Ermenkov, and the medical system. It's undeservedly burdening them. This division of the package undeservedly burdens the conscience of the Bulgarian doctor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u134	Second line, Mr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues! Mr. Ermenkov, you have indeed not read the World Bank report, which some people have also shown that they have not read it, where it continues to write about this division of society. It continues to say that in times like today's poorest people, 40% of them cannot buy the drugs, 10% of them refuse to go to preventive examinations, and several percent refuse to participate in the health insurance model. Well, with this separation of packages, are you sure that we will improve something in Bulgarian healthcare? Are you sure that all the quality criteria, all these health indicators, on which even the World Bank recognises that things are not going well, I open a clamp, it was the main speaker when the reform in Bulgaria was started, and at the moment it is even terrified of the results of this reform. So, Mr. Ermenkov, the situation is really dramatic and in the health aspect of the patients, by the doctors with this responsibility to decide who today, now and immediately, who tomorrow, with all the consequences and the enormous danger of being read in the media the next day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u136	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u137	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kardzhaliev, I understand the burden of doctors, but let the doctors express them from the stands. I'm expressing my concerns as a patient, otherwise you're absolutely right. You are absolutely right that any separation and subjectivization of objective processes leads to the possibility of error and then that one who has a conscience cannot live peacefully with his conscience. You're right. You're right, and I'm asking, if a pneumonia happens to be an immensely important disease, and it gets put on the extra list of options for home treatment, it turns into a heart attack pneumonia, from personal experience I'm talking about, who will bear the responsibility for being returned to home treatment and died at home from the so-called "white heart disease" with this splitting of packages into extra and major ones? Mr. Raynov, I haven't read the report because it's neither in my professional nor in any district, and I say again, I'm speaking as a person who goes to hospitals, standing in the queues. I just went to give blood, too. Yeah, you're right, but with what we're offering here, things aren't solved. On the contrary, they are deepening. We will continue to pay, besides what is health insurance, we will pay for extra packages, we will also pay for them to accept us somewhere, because otherwise we will either die of pain or something else, we will develop corruption and if we are not in the first place in terms of health per capita, and let alone by quality that we are last safe, we will beat any records after that. [[Noise and lines.]] Therefore, I will say once again: colleagues, it is very easy to shout so sneakyly from a place on the occasion of those who are speaking. You'd better take a public attitude here and tell us what your attitude is, because otherwise you'll take it really meanly, sneakyly, it'll happen, but we'll all suffer from it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u138	To speak, there is Mr. Abu Melih.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I see that the theme of the packages is the main and additional, stir up passions, but in the end, especially to the left, these are the consequences of the monopoly of the Health Insurance Fund. A monopoly position can be very good for a monopoly, but at the same time it can be the means to kill him. Because for many years the Health Insurance Fund is alone and alone, we have all wanted everything from her and only her. Who gets what they want, who gets what they want as treatment, new techniques, methodologies, and so on, we want the Health Insurance Fund to pay for it. You know very well, by raising the number of the assortment, you should also raise the price, but in our case there was no such thing. The health care fund's assortment was going up every year, but the price was still the same, and the moment came where the weight just had to be reduced. Understand it, nothing more, nothing less. About the basic and the extra package. The basic package, the doctors know very well that whoever has a heart attack will immediately go to the hospital and there will be no problem. The one who wakes up with a pimple on his left cheek will have to wait a while, is not life-threatening, nor is it a problem. There are these techniques. These are the techniques of poor economies. It's not the best solution, because there's a problem. As the gentlemen of the DPS said, the problem is how will the doctor decide the second he's alone in the cabinet with the patient, what diagnosis to write him to reroute him to the extra package, or write him a false diagnosis to the main package. That's the problem with this system. In principle this will lead to, you can say, the first slow steps for the beginning of the demonopolization of the Casa, because you will see that many of these Bulgarians you mentioned, who paid 3 billion extra, or as in the World Bank report, 47% is paid from the pocket instead of giving them under the table, will go and make insurance or other funds and so on. Things are gonna come together on their own, but it just doesn't have to be politicized. Once again, the Dutch who have the best health care system, what they have said: "As long as politicians interfere with health care, there will never be a fix. " - Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u140	Any lines to Mr. Abu Melih? I won't. Mr. Kuchukov for a statement. This is the last statement on this text so far. I invite the Members of the House to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u141	Dear Madam President, dear colleagues, Mr Minister! The text on the division of packages into two main and additional ones said a lot of opinions, some of which were purely political. I will not dwell on the political side of the issue, but I will dwell on the health care. Unfortunately, all these debates were caused by the ambiguity of what a major package meant. Yes, it is said that 85 to 95%, as the Minister said today, of the diseases that cause disability and mortality will be included in it. The question arose: and what remains with the remaining five percent? For example, a rare disease that can be very severe and lead to 100% disability and mortality is unlikely to enter these 95% because it accounts for 0.01% of the diseases that relate to and determine disability and mortality. [[Noise and lines.]] Where do the sick go with these diseases? True, it's a small percentage, but they're also sick, they also lead to disability. It wasn't about getting the package ready. I agree that the package as a regulation by the Minister cannot be prepared before the Law, but more clarity could be introduced as to what these packages would include, what are the principles, because there are only two words in the Law: basic and additional, nothing more. [[Noise and lines.]] With regard to the supplementary package, the criteria for it are only financial. At least I didn't see any other criteria. If they are only financial, then you shouldn't talk and give examples with other countries where there are waiting lists, because there are criteria for forming waiting leaves, we all know there are others. [[Noise and lines.]] The additional criteria raise several questions, if they are not only financial criteria. How do we explain to regular health insurance that they'll wait for treatment until...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u142	I can't hear anything. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u143	Please take down the noise in the Chamber because there are MPs following the debate and not listening to the speaker.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u144	How do we explain that they have to wait while others who are uninsured will immediately receive medical care because there is this possibility? Secondly, how will it be explained to hospitals that have sufficient capacity to serve the sick, if the criteria are not only financial, that they should remain with this spare capacity and that the sick should wait? I understand that it is all about the financial resources and the purpose of the Ministry is to streamline the financial costs. It is true that much is being devoted to healthcare, which is constantly growing, and it is also true that quality is not improving. However, I am afraid that in this way of dividing the packages, rationalization will only be directed at people who pay their health contributions regularly. In another bill, which is now being discussed, there is already talk of rationalising the use of health funds in medical institutions. I would say that this is a way to influence it, but at the moment in the Health Fund package I do not see any step towards interrupting the inefficient use of the common financial resource of health care. In this sense, I repeat again, for me the main reason for the difficult discussions is that there is no clarity on these packages, there is no clarity on the principles on which they were created, not specific data.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u145	Any lines to Mr. Kuchukov? I won't. The minister wants two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u146	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Once again, let us recall the discussions in the Commission, the long and public discussions. The meaning of the basic and additional package is not financial and is not saving money. Yes, you are! The point is: concentration where political effort must intercept the real problem. Otherwise, if we talk about the fact that the planning reception in the additional package, that is, not at the moment of any suffering, is a problem, and again we return to the general consensus in this House that the goal is better health performance of each individual and of the nation, then, I so like to take an example from where this works. I mean, whoever makes a car, let's ask him how he did it, not us in the yard. So in countries like the Netherlands, as Mr Abu Melih, England, France, Scandinavian countries, Sweden, are countries that devote many and many billions to health care. There's a farmyard of medical diseases there, clearly stated, without any politicians fearing people for whom there is a clearly guaranteed delayed reception. They've been working like this for decades with a planned admission for certain diseases. Not according to the ability of any system to absorb them, but according to the medical need. And you see, against the backdrop of this scary work, which was going to happen in Bulgaria, their health indicators are flying up, and we with daily, continuous, instant, secure and absolutely free reception have brought it to this ravine, in which we melt as a nation and in which our children die twice as likely as the Europeans.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u147	Are there any other MPs wishing to speak under § 3? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov - § 3 to drop out. Identical is the proposal of the MPs Emil Raynov and a group of MPs for dropping § 3. I shall put to the vote in general those proposals which the Commission does not support. They voted 129 MPs: 35 against 69, abstention 25. The proposals have not been accepted. I put the Commission's proposal to vote in favour of the text of the importer for § 3. We are voting § 3 supported by the Commission. They voted 136 MPs: for 101, against 27, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Procedure Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u148	Madam President, honourable Members! Due to the importance of the bill, we see that it generates an awful lot of interest and speeches, I propose that tomorrow after the first point that we adopted the Law on Forests, we continue with this Bill and during parliamentary control, instead of parliamentary control, until 14.00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u149	What do you mean? We have a delay in parliamentary control!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u150	Mr. Merdjanov's proposal back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u151	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I am making a reverse procedural proposal. It is true that this bill is important, but the Conference of Presidents has offered your attention the weekly programme that has been endorsed. No less important are the current issues during parliamentary control. Now that we've caught up, it's good to do our job. I'm asking you very much to take that into account. Our constituents await the ministers' answers on important issues for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u152	Isn't health care important?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u153	We can have an emergency meeting on Tuesday. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made tomorrow to be dedicated entirely to legislative activity, specifically under this bill, by 14.00. Please vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u154	You kept that law here for a month, and now you're in a hurry!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u155	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u156	How is that not true?! I'll prove it to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u157	They voted 132 MPs: 78, against 40, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. There's a re-vote procedure. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u158	Madam President, honourable Members! I propose a re-vote because you probably didn't understand that we had the opportunity to make this proposal if you hadn't accepted the request to continue today the working day until the adoption of the Law as more important.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u159	There are committee meetings!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u160	There's parliamentary control tomorrow! What is more important about committees or control?! It's up to you. I suggest you re-vote with the alternative to continue until the adoption of the Law today.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u161	These are two different procedures. There's a valid proposal for re-voting. Colleagues, there are Saturdays, Sundays, Mondays, Tuesdays an opportunity for extraordinary meetings, all day for parliamentary control. We don't have a problem. We are revising the proposal for tomorrow's plenary day, dedicated entirely to legislative activity, until 2:00 p.m. This is how the proposal was made. Vote 124 MPs: 77 against 36, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u162	According to § 4, there is a proposal of the MP Georgi Kyuchukov and a group of MPs in § 4, item 4. 1 to eliminate the envisaged changes in art. 13, para. 1. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov and Dzhevdet Chakarov - § 4 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Emil Raynov and a group of Members of Parliament - § 4 shall be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u163	You should speak up, because we don't know what you've offered us.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u164	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is apparent from the vote that the Committee on Health could not decide on the support of the text of the importer for § 4. With all the responsibility of the political power that I represent and which is a mandate carrier, I would like to say that, after long discussions and debates, we also have the consent of the Minister of Health, to preserve the current situation of the structure of the Casa Supervisory Board, that is, the overwhelming presence of the non-state quota. This is an opinion agreed and adopted on a proposal by the MPs from the political party GERB in the Forty-first National Assembly. In this sense, I propose that the House support the proposals of the MPs from the ABB, from Coalition BSP left Bulgaria, from the DPS and to remove the text of the importer, while preserving the superiority of the representatives of employers, of the insured and of the patients in the management of the casata, because this corresponds...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u165	They don't prevail.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u166	They're dominating.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u167	Yes, because we are talking about five representatives of employers, insured and patients and four representatives of the state. This is the structure of the Cashier's Supervisory Board right now. This also corresponds to the financial contribution of the different categories to the Supervisory Board of the Cashier. With this, I hope that there will be no debate by the Members of the National Assembly, to move quickly towards the vote on this text, because I believe that this can indeed be achieved unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u168	Let me just say what I understand, Mrs. Daritkova. We have three groups of proposals from MPs to reject § 4. The Commission shall hold a vote, does not achieve a majority, does not support the text of the importer, which means that the text of the importer is rejected. In this situation, the proposal of the Members of the National Assembly who have proposed the same is respected. Got it. The word is Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u169	Thank you, Madam President. I think it would have been right if you'd said how many votes this vote was going on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u170	My information is eight to eight.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u171	That's right. Thank you. Eight to eight votes, colleagues. By the way, I absolutely want to say to you that we from the Patriotic Front will not support the proposals of the DPS and I will now explain to you why. Because it is about a body which, in the opinion of the Bulgarian Medical Association, which I consulted with them, is basically an inactive body. It's the so-called Oversight. Now look at the situation with this Oversight. The same Oversight, colleagues, can't even get together now and make any decision. They're looking for each other on phones, and I don't know what they are, because, you see, most of these people seem to be having other problems. It is for this reason that we at the Patriotic Front supported the proposed increase in the quota of the state, because the state will still be able to carry out a real action of a working body, which, by the way, if I have to be even more comprehensive, is absolutely unnecessary. This organ is parasitic. It does no work, it does not work, but at the same time performs other functions which, I can safely say, serve corrupt practices. It was for this reason that it was such a serious battle so that these corrupt practices could be maintained by lobbying and serving the interests of hospitals. I told you, for a reason, that I have a list of hospital budgets in my purse, in which during the Commission's discussion, this scheme shined out how for certain hospitals budgets are cosmic, and for others are, naturally, insufficient so that they can enter into obligations and those with space budgets can carry out political orders and especially when it comes to performing public ones. I'll give you an example. Yeah, I'll give you an example. Just a few months ago, a contract was made for the delivery of surgical sutures. Five thousand leva cost this supply from a known supplier to the two most reputable companies producing such a consumer. He was turned down because he wasn't one of your people and then this delivery, in the opinion and on the documents that this man provided to me, was made worth 60 thousand. lv. Twelve times on top! This is the difference, and that is why, colleagues, we have supported 8 people to have an advantage in this supervisory authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u172	Thank you. I hope there aren't any lines so we can close this paragraph by 2:00. But I understand there are lines. We're done with the line and line procedure, and we're done with the meeting. For the first line, Mr. Kardzhaliev. The minister has two minutes and the meeting is over today. It's not extended time, we're just following procedure. For the second line, Mr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u173	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear Mr. Bayraktarov! At this very moment I was encouraged not because of the appeal to the MPs only by GERB, on my part, but because it dominates the mind, at least sporadically from time to time, considering such texts that this text will be rejected, as the Committee on Health had done, and in the end the public character of this institution will remain. I strongly disagree that this organ was parasitic. Only a leik in this area, which has recently and indeterminately read, can say that. You are deprecating, speaking this way and eliminating the NHIF Supervisory Board, the health insurance model itself, the Health Insurance Fund itself. This is why, Mr. Bajraktarov, once again I will tell you something I told you a few months ago: I am trying to stay away from this stand, especially when I am not competent. I'm following a principle. He is this: if what you say does not improve silence, keep quiet! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u174	For the second line, Mr. Raynov. Colleagues, I remind you that there is no proposal from MPs or from the Commission report in support of the importer's text. EMIL RAINOV (BSP LB): The specific line to Mr. Bayraktarov. In such statements that the management body of NHIF is woven with corruption, Mr. Bayraktarov, if you have any data, I think you should hand them over to the right place. It would be interesting for us to meet you, too. It doesn't sound serious to throw such accusations around here. So be a little more specific.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u175	For a third line... [[Noise and lines.]] Give us a chance to hear from Mr. Ermenkov to complete the debate on this statement. Third line for Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u176	Mr. Bayraktarov, I am surprised at your moderation in defending the interests of the state. I suggest that at the next convenient time you propose that the Health Insurance Fund become a paying agency with the Ministry. Then 100% will be guaranteed by the state what happens.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u177	The hole is Mr. Bayraktarov. The financiers in the room heard about payment and started calling.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u178	Thank you, Madam President. As you know, in this room, the only competent authorities are the DPS. However, two and a half months ago, I called on the media to pay attention to the so-called beggars, and today we see the result of how the beggars are rich and drain the social funds. Okay. This is about the competence that you with your greasy voice always rubbing. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] As for Mr. Ermenkov's proposal...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u179	Please, just a little more patience! Colleagues, you're not letting me stray for a second and not follow the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u180	Mr. Ermenkov, we at the Patriotic Front have made a much better and much more working proposal and I hope it will be supported. And this working proposal is a demonopolist of the Health Insurance Fund. [[Single applause from DPS.]] That's the working decision. I hope one day you'll support him. When this thing happens, we're not gonna have these debates at all. As for Dr. Raynov's line: Dr. Raynov, according to art. 208, from the Code of Criminal Procedure, when there is evidence of crimes committed, in this case draining of the Health Insurance Fund, the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office receives the legal basis for self-sessing. As a journalist, author and host of a broadcast, I have repeatedly delivered such data, proven in a firm way in the transmission. You can take a look at them. Of course, I've done the right thing, but then somehow the institutions didn't work. And I've said it not once or twice from this very tribune in this very room. That's the truth. I cannot force the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office to go and investigate. As at the moment I cannot force the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office and Minister Tomislav Donchev to go to measure the way from the city of Rudozem to...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u181	First reminder, you deviate from the topic, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u182	...to see it's not 1563 meters. Yes, I'm sorry, Madam President, I'm just setting an example.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u183	The minister wants two minutes. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u184	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The purpose, the purpose of this text proposed by the government, was and continues to be one: if you as MPs have delegated to the operational authorities of the government, the operational management of the Casa to go to the implementation of certain objectives, in certain financial parameters, then you must delegate the possibility of controlling the decisions to this government, and to this operational management. I was part of all these discussions with trade unions, employers and patient organizations. The truth, no matter who, how, or what it offends. You, Dr. Raynov, perhaps as the former chairman of the supervision of the Casa, were offended by Mr. Bayraktarov, but I assure you that neither you nor I, but not in front of the cameras, will say that the situation in the Casa is good, that there is no corruption there, that it is possible that what happens in hospitals can happen without different levels, and in the Casa to close their eyes or to do so... [[Heckling]] Please, please...! [[Heckling]] That is, if we have a common understanding that the way of managing the Cashier and holding responsibility at the moment are not good, we need to change that thing.............................I am ready for further talks, but in this way things could not remain. We've had these conversations with the industry. The industry, by the way, agrees that representatives of the pharmaceutical industry who sell the Casa Pills may not be part of the supervision of the Casa, but they are. And now, at the moment, we will leave them for some more time, but please, let us close this debate, because it is both employers' and trade union, and a patient's issue of clarity that we are giving ourselves a really very short time to ensure that the supervision of the Casa, which actually makes the decisions, which actually determines the policy of the Casa, which gives or does not allow for a solution that protects finances or gives patients opportunities to change. Because what is currently is not good and is not working, and if it was, there wouldn't be 400 million updates every year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-04.u185	Colleagues, this is the end of today's plenary day. Tomorrow we continue a regular plenary session. Point one: First reading of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests. After that, we return to the Second Reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act by 14.00 p.m. According to the decision adopted by the National Assembly today there will be no parliamentary control. Thank you. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
