ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] First, let me introduce you to the messages that came in. On 3 December 2015, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2020. No 502-00-69 at the National Assembly was received a Report on the implementation of the Plan for preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018 for the period August 2015 adopted by Decision No 949 of the Council of Ministers of 2015. The material was provided to the parliamentary groups and to the Chairs of Standing Committees. On 3 December 2015 the National Assembly was presented, adopted by the Plenipotentiary Session of the Economic and Social Council, an opinion on the topic: the Corporate Social Responsibility "Achievement and Challenge." This opinion builds on the analysis developed and adopted in 2009 by the Economic and Social Council on the same topic. The material is provided to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Assembly received materials from the National Statistical Institute containing results from statistical surveys for gross domestic product in the third quarter of 2015. supposed data; labour productivity, employed persons and time spent in the third quarter of 2015 For the purpose of this Decision, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in accordance with Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Here you are, Mr. Velchev. A statement on behalf of the GERB Parliamentary Group. The word is the Vice-President of the group. "The People's Representative Krasimir Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues! Today, the world marks the International Human Rights Day. On December 10, 1948, the United Nations General Assembly adopted a Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which describes for the first time the rights of any ordinary person. It declares all people equal by rights and free by birth. The declaration is translated into 375 languages and dialect and is considered an informal Constitution guaranteeing human rights. The need for such a document to point to fundamental human rights is felt most strongly after the discovery of the crimes against humanity committed by the Nazis during World War II. The UN has decided to draw up a declaration stating all fundamental human rights. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights has created universal standards of conduct across the world from civil, political and social rights. Two years after its adoption, the date 10 December became the International Human Rights Day. This year, marking 70 years since the end of World War II, 70 years since the creation of the UN and UNESCO and 60 years since Bulgaria's accession to the UN, it is particularly necessary to emphasise the role and importance of the first human rights protection document, which later became the basis of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The protection of the rights and freedoms of each individual and anti-discrimination policy are a top priority of the European Union. The Republic of Bulgaria as a member of the European Union actively opposes xenophobia, racial discrimination, religious intolerance, hate language and other modern forms of discrimination. There is nothing more dangerous for a society, especially today, than intolerance and intolerance, than hatred for different thinking people, for different ethnicities, religions and cultures. Now, in the context of an enhanced migration process, our country can serve as an example of ethnic tolerance. For many years Bulgarians, Turks, Roma, Armenians, Jews, Greeks and others coexist in peace and understanding in Bulgaria. Among the various religions there is respect and acceptance of the rich variety of cultures and traditions, each religion enriches our society with its precious virtues. More than ever, we need to be united against extremism, xenophobia and racism, and irreconcilable to the withdrawal of basic and inalienable human right to life. This is not only a moral duty but also a political and legal need. The state policy of the Republic of Bulgaria in the field of human rights is aimed at ensuring equality for all Bulgarian citizens, regardless of their ethnicity, religion or sexual orientation, equal rights and opportunities of women and men, protection of the rights of the child and vulnerable groups in the Bulgarian society, continuation of the integration processes of the Roma population and its active involvement in public life. The protection and respect for human rights is and must be shared care and responsibility not only at all levels of government, but also of all citizens. This requires knowledge and respect for the rights guaranteed by our Constitution and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. If we want to live in a peaceful and peaceful world, we must be solidarity and uncompromising and react to every case of human rights violations. Today draws attention to the importance and intransigence of universal principles enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights "Human dignity, freedom, equality, brotherhood." It is also an occasion to declare our will and conviction to respect human rights as a path to agreement, security and peace................. something that we all need. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u3	We're continuing with our work schedule. The next item is: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY COMMISSION ON THE REQUESTS OF THE GRAND PROCURER OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, TO GIVE RESPONSIBILITIES TO REFUNSE INDICATORS AGAINST A VOLEN KIKOLOV, A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE IN THE 43th PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. The importer is Tsetska Tsacheva, Chairman of the National Assembly. Allow me to read you the draft decision. "Project" DECISION on the establishment of a Temporary Commission on the Demands of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria in order to give permissions to arouse criminal prosecutions against Volen Nikolov Siderov, MP in the 43rd National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. Art. 1 and 3 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 35 in relation to Art. 9, para. 2, p. Art. 3 and Art. 134, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He established a Temporary Commission with the task of examining whether there was sufficient evidence of committed crimes of general character according to the demands of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria on 30 November 2015 with the following. No 527-00-9 and n.e.c. No 527-00-10, for granting permissions to excite criminal prosecutions against the MP Volen Nikolov Siderov. 2. The Commission shall submit a report on its activities containing separate opinions and separate draft decisions on requests made by the Prosecutor General. 3. The Commission shall consist of 17 Members of the Parliament of two Members of the Parliament from each Parliamentary Group and one Member of Parliament who shall not be members of a Parliamentary Group. 4. Composition of the Commission: Chairman: Dimitar Glauchev Members: Desislava Atanasova, Chavdar Georgiev, Atanas Zafirov, Chetin Kazak, Hamid Hamid, Antony Trenchev, Grozdan Karadzhov, Hristian Mitev, Emil Dimitgrove, Stefan Kenov, Georgi Kovachev, Yavor Notev, Ilian Todorov, Svetoslav Belemezov, Lachezar Nikiforov, Anna Barakova. 5. The temporary committee shall be elected for a period of 7 days. Before I open the debates, I would like to introduce you to the two consecutive Chairmanial Councils that the Members were aware that they would proceed in the same way as the Prosecutor General's previous requests. At the last Conference of Presidents yesterday, colleagues were acquainted with the draft decision Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. Here you go, Mr. Notev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of Parliament, we are about to implement a procedure that is already close to and familiar to us regarding the activity of the Prosecutor General in using his powers to address the National Assembly with requests for waiver of the parliamentary immunity. He also finds this necessary with regard to cases that date back to 2011. The next case is from 2013. These are the events that initiated the prosecution to make such a request to the National Assembly. With regard to the Commission's proposed agenda and its powers, the tasks to be put forward by this decision, I have a proposal to supplement the agenda with which it needs to deal. I am based on the fact that the fact of all MPs is known. We, on the occasion of a request from the Attorney General, have taken a decision to grant permission to the Prosecutor's Office to oblige the two MPs whose immunity has been examined in this Chamber. It is also known that the Bulgarian court of two institutions as a competent institution subsequently declared the detention of the two MPs illegal. There is a judicial act that constitutes a basis for seeking liability for illegal acts which directly affect the rights of Bulgarian citizens... the Members of the National Assembly whose immunity has been lifted. I do not find that the National Assembly, as an institution that has given permission and made this procedure possible, should remain silent in the context of the developments. I therefore propose that the committee, which we will set up, and it is in the same composition by the same Members of Parliament, should it have the task of considering the further course of the procedure initiated by a decision in this House, to assess our action, was it right of our decision, was it justified, and was it right to adopt, so as to make possible illegal acts of other institutions? Because we're at the beginning, we're at the bottom of something that we at Ataka warned about. In view of this, I have a proposal to include an item on the agenda for a report by the President of the future committee on the further course of the procedures that we have agreed to be carried out and to propose a draft proposal to the National Representation to repeal the decision to give consent to the detention of the two MPs. Not that this is going to put things back and make any practical sense, but purely morally we have no right to stand in a position that makes us side with the institutions that break the law. It is not right and it is not convincing to pretend that such a thing does not happen. In fact, I take occasion from the practice of the Constitutional Court, which, by its decision of 1993, pronounces that such an act is within the competence of the National Assembly, is, respectively, sanctioned by the Constitutional Court. We are talking about the annulment of a decision of the National Assembly, which gives consent to detain the people's representative Andrey Lukanov. Subsequently, following the implementation of the entire detention and enforcement procedure of a decision by the Assembly, respectively with the power of the Prosecutor's Office, the National Assembly in its law, as the Constitutional Court has said, has issued another decision to revoke the consent given. I think we are facing the hypothesis of admitting our mistake, investigating the grounds and reporting why it was admitted and repealing the act that is contrary to the laws of the country. I am making a formal proposal to include in the tasks and objectives of the Temporary Commission the examination of this case with the authorisation given by the Court of Justice as unlawful.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u5	Do you propose this as a separate point or do we move it to the Project Decision?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u6	You reported a draft decision containing two points.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u7	There are five points in the Project Decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u8	I'm talking about the starting points for examining the two demands of the Attorney General. I propose that we put it as a first point, because it will be basic for the study and the report on this Commission's work so far. Let's go from our mistakes so we don't have to repeat them: "1." Report by the President of the Commission on the work done so far by the Temporary Commission on the demands of the Prosecutor General for the detention of the two MPs. [[Reply from "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u9	Don't call from the gym! - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. The proposal made by the National Representative Yavor Notev comes out of the scope of the draft decision presented to us by the President of the National Assembly Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva, so I will not put him to the vote. I shall put the submitted draft decision to the vote. They voted 133 MPs: 119, against 10, abstention 4. The draft decision has been adopted. Negative vote, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u10	Guys, what did we just do?! We said, "Let's go again." The Attorney General wanted Siderov's immunity, and we're still telling him how we're gonna give him Siderov's immunity. We've assigned a committee to do this. Good for you! Achievers! Bravo! Bravo! [[Noise and shouting from GERB.]] What did you do? Do you realize that here in this room, you are acting in an outrageous way. The Attorney General wants something, we say: because the Attorney General is very nice, very honest, very orderly, let's give him this. What's the Attorney General doing? He's holding MPs non-horse! Illegal! Protocol: Sofia City Court: President Veselina Stavreva, Prosecutor-General Dimitar Petrov, who was appointed for us, naturally. What the Sofia City Court says: "The detention of Siderov and Chukolov is illegal. Respects the request made by lawyers and warrants the unlawful detention of the two defendants.. Volen Nikolov Siderov and Desislav Slavov Chukolov. Sofia Court of Appeal: President Nevena Grozeva. What's he saying? In this case, the prosecution's request for detention is not correct. He also says: "The Upper is contrary to any legal logic. This is where we vote, this kind of thing. The fact that it's against the law, that the prosecution is living like some kind of organ that can sanction any one of us, you don't care, do you? You don't care because it's about Siderov and Chukolov. It's not about you. And this committee that you made it... Glauchev, you don't have things that should be triggered by the D.A.'s office. We've read the website. Atanasova, don't you have things that the D.A. has to do with?! We have read all the media in Bulgaria. [[Heckling]] Who, Karadjov? Who? Because it's about Siderov and Chukolov, it's very easy for you. Every single one of you will be reached by this decision. [[shows him]] of the Sofia City Court. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Then you'll see what it's about. It's very easy for you now!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u11	Your time is up, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u12	Now you're probably rubbing your hands, but one day you'll know it, and you know it from me, you know it from me: It comes back! And I'll do everything I can for that!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Chukolov. Another negative vote? Here you go, Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u14	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear colleagues, you have now become an instrument of political repression in Bulgaria. I will tell you why: the new two requests from the Prosecutor General, directed against Siderov, are nothing more than political repression. Why? When was the Attorney General elected, what year? In 2013, if I'm not mistaken, right?! In a few days we will become 2016. If Siderov broke the law in 2011, why only now does the Attorney General want his immunity? Why didn't you ask for it a year ago, two years ago, when you were appointed? Because it is clear that these actions, which are currently directed against the leader of the Attack, are nothing more than a political repression in which you are all involved. You are all involved in this political repression against the opposition! The same applies to the other request of the Prosecutor General for hooliganism, from 2013. Okay, now we are 2016. From 2013 to 2016 did the Prosecutor General sleep, or did he not do his job? The last votes, when you made this commission, this tribunal for the arrest of Siderov and Chukolov, the court of two instances said: detention is illegal. I cannot understand what your concern is, Mr. Glauchev, so he does not want in the Commission the new Commission, which is being established on the proposal of my colleague Notev, to consider why the National Assembly voted on an unlawful detention. Because all of you who voted for the arrest of Siderov and Chukolov are participating in something illegal according to the court. Is that right, or isn't it?! And I repeat: where has the Attorney General been since he was appointed to this day? Where did you sleep for two years so you didn't ask for Siderov's immunity for some crimes allegedly committed in 2011? Why wasn't he there? Why at this very moment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Todorov. Another negative vote? I won't. Moving on to item three on the agenda: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR MANAGEMENT BY THE EUROPEAN STRUCTURAL AND INVESTIGATION FUNDS. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2015, adopted at the first vote on 7 October 2015. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. The report will introduce to you the President of the Commission the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u16	The Commission's Report on Budget and Finance on the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Bill No 502-01-66, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2015, adopted at the first vote on 7 October 2015. The European Structural and Investment Funds Fund Management Facility. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Chapter 1, General. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u17	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of the Law, the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 1 and the texts of the importer for Articles 1 to 4 inclusive. The texts and names are supported by the Commission and are reflected in the report concerned. Please vote. Vote 117 MPs: 103, against 1, abstention 13. The name of the Law, Chapter 1, as well as Articles 1 to 4, including the Commission's report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u18	Article 5 "Proposition of the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 5. Art. 5. (1) Financial instruments financed by ESIS funds, except those under art. 39 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 is implemented through the Fund Fund Fund. (2) The Fund shall be established as a separate financial resource from the programmes under art. 3, para. 2 and shall be managed on the basis of a financial agreement concluded between the Head of the Managing Authority of the programme concerned and the person managing the Fund. The bank services of the person managing the Fund Fund are carried out by the Bulgarian National Bank. (3) The person managing the Fund shall be appointed by the Council of Ministers, including persons appointed by the Deputy Prime Minister or the Minister responsible for the overall organisation, coordination and control of the system of management of ESIS funds, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, the Minister of Economy, the Minister of Environment and Water and the Minister of Agriculture and Food, and persons with proven professional experience in the field of financial instruments. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 6. Chapter two: Institutional framework. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two. Section I "Accordances and bodies for management of ESIS funds'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u19	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's edited art. 5 by importer, according to its report, Articles 6 to 14; the name of Chapter Two; the name of Section I and the name of Section II. Vote 116 MPs: 97 against 4, abstention 15. Articles 5 to 14 including as well as the name of Chapter Two, Section I and Section II, according to the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u20	Under art. 15 there is a proposal from the MPs Menda Stoyanova according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 15: Art. 15. (1) The Monitoring Committee of the Partnership Agreement and the Monitoring Committee of Programmes or Programmes under art. 3, para. 2 shall consist of a chairman, members and observers with the right to an advisory vote. (2) The Committees under para.1 shall be set up and their composition shall be determined by a legislative act of the Council of Ministers, subject to the requirements of art. 5 and 48 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 and of Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Commission Regulation (EU) No 240/2014 of 7 January 2014 on the European Code of Conduct for Partnership within the European Structural and Investment Funds (OJ L 74/1 of 14 March 2014)). The regulatory act shall define the criteria and procedure for the selection of representatives of the partners under Art. 12, para.1. (3) The composition of the Management Committee for a joint action plan shall be determined by the Head of the Managing Authority of the relevant programme under art. 3, para. 2 under the conditions and in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Act under para. 2. (4) The Committees under para. 1 adopt internal rules of employment and Code of Conduct. Under art. 16 there is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 16: Art. 16. (1) The Monitoring Committee of the Partnership Agreement shall meet at least once a year. (2) The Committee for the Monitoring of Programmes or Programmes under art. 3, para. 2 shall meet at least twice a year. (3) The Committees under para. 1 and 2 shall take a decision unanimously. In cases where this is not possible, decisions shall be adopted by a majority of two thirds of the members present with voting rights. (4) The name composition of the committees under para. 1 and 2 and information on their activities and decisions taken shall be published on the website of the programme concerned and on the Single Information Portal for General Information on the implementation and management of the ESIS, hereinafter referred to as the Single Information Portal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section III and for art. 18. Under art. 19 there is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 19: Art. 19. (1) The Central Coordination Unit shall build and maintain the Single Information Portal. (2) The information to be introduced and the order for its introduction shall be determined by the act of the Council of Ministers. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 20. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section IV, as well as the text of the importer for art. Art. 21 and art. 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u21	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the edited texts of the importer for art. 15 and 19, the members of the importer of 16, 17, 18, 20, 21 and 22 as well as the names of the importer of Section III and Section IV, supported by the Commission and found their place in its report. They voted 109 MPs: 98, none, abstention 11. Articles 15 to 22 including as well as the names of Section III and Section IV of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u22	Under art. 23 there is a proposal made by the MP Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, ) (a.k.a. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 23: Art. 23. The conditions, procedures and mechanisms for the functioning of ISU as well as the requirements for the structure and content of the information entered under art. 21, para. 1 shall be determined by a legislative act of the Council of Ministers. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I. Under art. 24 there is a proposal made by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 24: Art. 24. (1) Grants shall be provided by the Head of the Managing Authority with an administrative contract or by an order where the managing authority and the beneficiary are in the same administrative structure or organisation, on the basis of approved: project proposal, project proposal for a systemic project, financial plan for a budget line. In the case of an integrated project proposal, the assistance shall be jointly provided by the managers of the management bodies of the programmes concerned. (2) The grant financial assistance for the implementation of the approach shall be provided by the bodies referred to in para. 1 on the basis of a project proposal submitted through the relevant local action group. (3) The grant financial assistance for major projects and for a joint action plan within the meaning of art. Art. 100, respectively 104 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 shall be provided by the authorities under para. 1 after a decision on a major project, a corresponding decision on a joint action plan pursuant to art. Art. 102, respectively 107 of the same regulation. (4) In the case of a combination of grants with a financial instrument, the financial support shall be provided in accordance with art. Article 37 (7) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 is replaced by the following: Under art. 25 there is a proposal made by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 25: Art. 25. (1) Grants shall be granted through: 1. selection of project proposals, including integrated project proposals and project proposals on the basis of approved community-led local development strategies, hereinafter referred to as the VOMR Strategy, as well as major projects within the meaning of art. 100 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013; 2. direct provision of a specific beneficiary. (2) In procedure by selection under para. 1, t. 1 shall not participate and grant shall not be granted to persons for whom there are circumstances of exclusion from participation in a procurement procedure under the Public Procurement Act or who have not complied with an order of the European Commission to recover the unlawful and incompatible State aid granted to them. Under art. 26 there is a proposal made by the MP Menda Stoyanova according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 26: Art. 26. (1) The Head of the Managing Authority of the Programme, respectively of the lead programme, shall establish for each procedure guidelines and/or other document setting out the conditions for the application and the conditions for the implementation of the approved projects. The documents must also comply with the requirements of art. 59, para. 2. (2) The documents under para. 1 in the part setting out the conditions for the application shall be developed by the managing authority or by a local action group for the implementation of the VMR approach in accordance with the methodology and criteria approved by the Monitoring Committee for the relevant programme used for the selection of operations and by a type model established by the order of the Deputy Prime Minister or the Minister responsible for the overall organisation, coordination and control of the ESIS fund management system. (3) The draft documents under para. 1 prior to their submission for validation, shall be agreed on compliance with the applicable State aid rules with the Minister of Finance in a line specified by him. (4) The draft documents under para. 1 in the case of selection procedure, shall be published on the website of the programme concerned and in the ISU before they are submitted for validation. The managing authority shall provide interested parties with the possibility of written objections and proposals within a reasonable period of time, which shall not be less than one week. Chapter 5 of Section II of the Administrative Procedure Code shall apply to outstanding issues relating to public discussion. (5) In the case of a procedure by direct provision, the managing authority of the programme shall send the draft documents under para. 1 of the specific beneficiaries for proposals and objections within a reasonable period, which shall not be less than one week. (6) The certified documents under para. 1 shall be published on the website of the programme concerned and in the ISAN together with the notice for the initiation of the selection procedure, respectively sent to the specific beneficiaries together with the invitation to participate in the procedure by direct delivery and shall also be published on the page and in the ISUN. (7) After the initiation of a procedure by selection of the approved documents under para. 1 in the part setting out the conditions for applying may only be amended: 1. in the event of changes in the law of the European Union and/or the Bulgarian legislation, in the policy at European and/or national level, based on a strategic document or in the programme concerned, which require bringing the documents into line with them; 2. to increase the financial resource under the procedure; 3. for extension of the deadline for submission of project proposals; the cases in which the period may be extended shall be determined by the act referred to in art. 28, para. 1, t. 1. (8) An applicant in a procedure may request clarification of the documents under para. 1 within three weeks before the expiry of the application period. The explanations shall be validated by the Head of the Managing Authority or a person authorised by him. Explanations shall be given in respect of the conditions of application, shall not contain an opinion on the quality of the project proposal and shall be binding on all candidates. (9) Explanations under para. 8 shall be reported in accordance with para. 6 within two weeks before the expiry of the application period.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u23	Please interrupt. Is there a wish to make a statement? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to make an offer for editing in art. 25, para. 1, t. 1. I would like to draw attention to you, fellow Members, what is written, as this is, after all, a law with which European funds must be controlled. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25, para. 1, t. 1 is written that: the grant financial assistance is provided by the selection of project proposals. What is the meaning of this "selection "? This means that our hoops of companies or our municipalities will be given free funding, and everyone else, so to speak, goes to the mimansa...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u25	Which member is that in? Art. 25, para. 1, t. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u26	... which, firstly, is unfair, does not comply with European legislation as well as the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Therefore, in order to avoid any possibility of doubt, creating prerequisites for abuse of office, with power in the law, the right word is................................................................................... "Through a competition, the way all procedures related to the absorption of European funds are done. Mr. Chairman, c. One after...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u27	We're replacing the word "selection" with "competence."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u28	We are replacing the selection with the competition and in the proposal made by Mrs. Menda Stoyanova in point. 2, which will most likely be accepted to be a procedure again through a contest.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u29	It's al. 2 anymore, not t. 2 a para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u30	In para. 2, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u31	A procedure through a contest.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u32	The procedure through selection is, as Mrs. Stoyanova has done, to be a procedure through competition. Everywhere to avoid making another speech, the word "selection" where it exists should be replaced by the word "competence." I hope that this will be appreciated by colleagues and will be supported, because this is still the right way and more when there is a competition procedure, we stimulate people that they will participate in honest procedures, that all conditions of competition will be met, and those people will know that they will be evaluated according to the right and fair, fair rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u33	We get it, Mr. Bayraktarov. Thank you. Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u34	Dear colleagues, I disagree with Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal. He wants us to replace the word with a competition. The competition is a form of selection. Those words are almost synonymous. I would not agree with the fact that further in the entire Law there is talk of selection, but more: in art. 29 has a whole section to provide grants through selection and there in art. 29 It says how selection is made. It is said that such selection is carried out in accordance with the following principles: fair and free competition, equality and non-discrimination, publicity and transparency, and that the selection is carried out by assessing any project proposal which includes: evaluation of administrative compliance and eligibility, technical and financial assessment, classification of approved project proposals in descending order, definition of project proposals for which funding is provided. We have an arranged order and this line, which I have just read to you, which is a very small part, as it continues to be developed in the following articles, is actually a selection through a competition between these project proposals. I ask you not to accept this proposal of Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u35	Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Petrov. National Representative Petar Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I believe that in the following chapters, there will be situations where the reporter will now excuse me, Mrs. Stoyanova, but the matter is very complicated and cannot be treated. I think we should ask Mr. Donchev to come because it really is about Regulation 1303, which must be known very well to answer. I think Mr. Bajraktarov is right, he makes his remark and needs someone competent to answer, as it is about EU funds and relations with other ministries, with other departments. It is not right to look at such a document for 15 billion. Euros, and will be governed by this Law, and not the person who imports it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you are for the doppelganger, Mr. Bayraktarov. Please invite Deputy Prime Minister Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think that colleague Peter Petrov in the form of a reply gave a precise and clear answer. All over the European legislation, as well as the regulations, and the directives use the term "the competition," I repeat: the term "the competition." We cannot replace European legislation by adapting our law to some new term. It is no coincidence that I said in my speech that everywhere the words of the selection should be replaced by the word of the competition. In Bulgarian legislation, in most of its parts, where these forms are applied, the term competition is always used. Otherwise, let's start running the Public Procurement Act with a selection if you want? If you want, we can start changing him, too. After all, the majority is in your hands, but the right approach is this. And I don't see why we should argue, instead of applying the right approach, and everything else, as set out in the Law, will remain. But the word "competence" has a very different meaning than the word "choice." The word "competence" means to set racing rules. As long as the word "team," "Dear Mrs. Stoyanova," means someone will choose. But he can pick the one he likes without having a form of racing, a form of competition and so on. That is why this is the right term for the competition. I hope you understand that, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. To speak, the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u40	Yours is an issue, we can't think!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u41	Please, please, Mr. Bayraktarov and Mrs. Stoyanova!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u42	It's not a matter of status. My fellow Members, I wouldn't mind having a philosophical debate here about the content, the civic content of the words, the selection and the competition. But there's no point in doing it. First of all, I want to tell you that this is a law of second reading. There was enough time between first and second readings in which the Commission dealt with this Law, in which all proposals could be made, and answers to all questions could be received. But this is the technical side, the procedural side of the issue. Mr. Bajraktarov here is talking about the competition involving competition and the selection is not. He makes an analogy with the Public Procurement Act, only it is not right to make such an analogy. In the Public Procurement Act a single contractor is selected as a result of a particular competition. Here, when considering the project proposals, a list of applicants shall be made and the entire list of applicants, arranged in the respective descending order as described in Section II, art. 29 et seq. in the way in which they are to be ranked, and in fact a large part of those included in the list will be approved for funding. There are cases where the amount of the programme concerned is sufficiently large, it is possible for all of this list to be classified for funding from that programme. So it is wrong here to talk about the philosophical meaning of the words selection and.. competition and to ask for replacement. Moreover, once again, I would like to explain to you that in the following articles and chapters of the Law, the way in which the evaluation of each project proposal is made is very detailed and how it is ranked in a corresponding list in descending order. So it is unacceptable for me at second reading to make such proposals that are definitely not editorial! They're absolutely not editorial! They are meaningful and substantial because they are further explained and developed in the following articles of the Law. In no way am I worried, Mr. Bayraktarov, that, you see, the word selection rules out the competition beginning. No, it does not exclude it, because those who will be ranked in the defined order will be based on criteria clearly and categorically defined in this Law. And, again, you will not be rated one, you will not win one, you can win all who satisfy the conditions if the amounts under the respective program are sufficient.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u43	Do you have any lines? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u44	Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, and now on many of the programs, not to say in all of the programs, an assessment is carried out and the so-called "exhaust" is carried out in the first place, which is carried out exactly in competitions and not at selection courses once. The second, if you introduce now the term selection, that means that a huge part of the people who have already won the projects approved for funding will simply not receive them. I will immediately give you a specific and fresh example with the so-called Young Farmer, which is unknown why the name has been changed in the movement and it is now a very complicated name, I admit that I cannot tell you this because it consists of two or three sentences, but many of these people have won, approved their projects and now probably through the selection methodology those who should not have to receive this funding will simply not receive it, although they meet all the requirements adopted, approved their projects. And instead of using these funds and going where necessary, it will turn out that we will not be able to absorb them, as happened and lost only under the Rural Development Programme, if my memory is not mistaken, over 350 million. We just lost them, we didn't get them. That's the point. This, and most importantly, when it is introduced the term "Competition" the clear administrative rules can now be laid down, not to apply for a program and wait a year, and then instead of the person receiving help, it will turn out that he has gone bankrupt because he has already drawn loans and finally someone has not selected it. I hope you understand what this is about.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. A hole, Mrs. Stoyanova?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u46	Once again, Mr. Bayraktarov, I would like to make it clear to you that the selection according to art. 29 et seq. includes exactly the point of reference you are talking about, which evaluates the relevant project proposals. And as for the other part of your reply, I would ask you still to read the Law to the fullest extent, and by reaching § 12 you will understand that the proceedings that have begun and unfinished until the entry into force of this Law are completed in the current order, which in no way threatens those project proposals which are already under way under the Young Farmer and perhaps some others in the rural programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u47	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Mr. Bayraktarov, are you convinced to withdraw your offer?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u48	No!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u49	I put to the vote a proposal made by the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov to be replaced by the word "the competition" everywhere in the Law. They voted 108 MPs: 18, against 32, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the texts of the importer for Members 23 to 26, including those edited by the Commission and found content in its report, as well as the names of Chapter 3 and Section I under the same report. Please vote. Vote 97 MPs: 85 against 1, abstention 11. Articles 23 to 26 including as well as the name of Chapter 3 and Section I under the Commission report have been adopted. For a speech on behalf of a parliamentary group, there is a popular representative Lutvi Mestan, Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. You have the floor, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, today the international community and humanity mark the International Human Rights Day. December 10th marks the day when in 1948 the UN General Assembly adopted a Universal Declaration of Human Rights, presented for the first time in 1941 as a foundation, as a philosophy by President Franklin Roosevelt in his speech on the four freedoms. Today, we need to remember these four fundamental freedoms - freedom of speech, religious freedom, freedom from poverty, and freedom from fear. This is happening in front of the Congress of the United States of America. A formal day begins after the 317th United Nations plenary session on 4 December 1950 by Resolution 423, which invites all member states to mark that day. Why does it make sense today to recall the Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted by the United Nations? What is the special meaning of this act? To the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the subject of international law is only national states, not the person with its rights. This is the first act of the United Nations to put at the heart of international law, along with national and human rights, the issue of dialecticism between the sovereignty of the national state and respect for human rights. It is no coincidence that international humanitarian thought will eventually reach such a development, which will bring out the figure of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which directly applies the European Convention on Human Rights. It is possible for national states to be condemned for the violation of human rights, despite the undeniable recognition of the sovereignty of each national state. The slogan of the 2015 International Human Rights Day is: Our rights, our freedoms. The keyword is always followed by the keyword............................................................................................ Yes, the emphasis is on the word "always" because human rights and freedoms are not for granted, not once and for all. Rights and freedoms must be maintained continuously. The question is, by whom? Of those anti-democratic, totalitarian reflexes, xenophobic, extremely nationalistic reflexes which, for a certain historical period, seem to be falling into a latent phase, but in critical situations, they are growing as we see a trend today in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, we must also point out a lot that there is still a problem with rights and freedoms in our home country, a member of the European Union, for nine years now. No other evidence is needed, it is enough to remind us that because of the violation of one of these four fundamental freedoms, freedom of speech, freedom of expression in the mother tongue, representatives of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, including the President of the Party, we are subject to sanctions by the Bulgarian state institutions and we have to address this particular Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. What needs and makes sense to say today is that rights and freedoms should be guaranteed by the laws, but they will not really be realised unless we find the dialectical link between rights and freedoms and tolerance. The law may oblige us, but we will live in true democracy when the legal guarantees for human rights and freedoms become part of our internal world, of our cultural code, when we understand the difference not as a risk, as a danger to national sovereignty and national security, but as what we need to understand our own identity. This is that third dimension of tolerance Dr. Dogan talked about in his scientific studios years ago. Today, the most serious challenge facing that liberal democracy that the fathers of the European Union have put forward is a very dangerous neo-conservative concept, which is being made an attempt to unfold in Bulgaria as well. We have been hearing strong voices lately about the dialectic link between security and freedom being destroyed, and freedom should be brought into being a victim of security as a response to the terrorist threats that come from the expansion of the Islamic State. Yes, we share the need to strengthen security systems. There is a need for more investment in the security systems of both national countries and within the European Union. But to raise the question of freedom to give in to security is ultimately darkness, the beginning of the end of modern European democracy. Today, I would like to recall Benjamin Franklin's insights into one of those thinkers who are at the heart of American democracy. Benjamin Franklin says: "Those who are willing to give up basic freedom to buy some transitional security deserve neither freedom nor security. This is exactly the mission of the liberal DPS to defend in these critical times the need for the citizens of Bulgaria, the citizens of Europe, the citizens of the world not to be faced with the choice: "Freedom or security." Bulgarian citizens, citizens of Europe are entitled to both security and freedom. We need a balance between these two principles, not the idea of security eating the idea of freedom, because this is the beginning of every tyranny that leads to millions of human victims. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u51	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, the People's Representative Krasimir Bogdanov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Today's December 10th is marked by the story of humanity's pursuit of humanism, justice and democracy. On this day in 1948, the United Nations General Assembly adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, in which for the first time in one place the rights of each person are described. That is why today, around the world, the International Human Rights Day, which was declared such by the UN two years after the adoption of the Universal Declaration, is celebrated. Human rights are that universal and inextricably related to the human essence value whose preservation, guarantee and effective protection is a fundamental mark of the state of any society. The Bulgarian society and the Bulgarian state are part of the world community and as such we should fit into it with our contribution to the creation of reliable guarantees for the protection and effective exercise of fundamental human rights and freedoms without any conventions, privileges and non-reflective restrictions. Bulgaria is one of the countries that, under international treaties, is most acutely experiencing the problems of tearing away ethnic territories, migration of hundreds of thousands of Bulgarians and leaving millions of them within foreign borders. Even though we are nearly 100 years away from these events, we continue to bear the consequences of the selfish policy of the great powers. Not for a reason responsible not only Bulgarian but also European historians continue to claim that Bulgaria is the only country in Europe that borders on itself from everywhere. More than three million Bulgarians still live today in the so-called historical Bulgarian communities....in Macedonia, Albania, Kosovo, Serbia, Romania, Ukraine, Moldova, Turkey and Greece. In many of these places they cannot freely declare their ethnicity and use their Bulgarian name. There are no Bulgarian schools in Macedonia today. In Albania and Kosovo, Bulgarians are not yet recognised as a national minority and the role of Bulgarian diplomacy is to place these issues at the highest government level. For the Bulgarians in the Western suburbs the situation has deteriorated in recent years as serious problems with the operation of free media of the Bulgarian national minority and the issue of new textbooks for the Bulgarian students are serious. In Ukraine it is practically impossible to register a Bulgarian with a name corresponding to the Bulgarian name system. In the Republic of Turkey, the Ecumenical Patriarchate has a systematic policy of oppression against the religious rights of the Bulgarian community. In Romania, for practically several years, worship has been terminated in Bulgarian. These are all questions that are waiting for their decision and the Bulgarian state must take care of the rights of our compatriots who are subjected to assimilation, leading to the constant meltdown of Bulgarian minorities in neighbouring countries, all the more so that in the way of their negotiations for EU membership some of these countries seek our support. Therefore, Bulgaria needs to meet the criteria for minorities in order to receive our support. Unfortunately, we are living in an era where globalisation and the removal of much of the restrictions on moving people from one territory into another has led to a growing threat of terrorism and aggression around the world, particularly in developed societies, which, in turn, required rethinking the issues concerning the borders of some of the generally recognised human rights and freedoms. The line between the rights of individual human individuals is very thin and rests solely on the will and consciousness of each participant in the public turnover. If a person or group of persons assume more than their inherent rights and follow the rules established by societies, there is an abuse of rights. These are the recent actions of the terrorist organization - the Islamic State - which, in addition to violating guaranteed human rights and freedoms - but unimaginably destroying values created by human civilization - is ruining the world's order. Such venomous conduct is unacceptable and criminal, and by all means it must be opposed. Noting today the International Day for Human Rights, we express our solidarity and empathy for the common global care for the protection of every human individual, of the human nature and of its inherent values and social conquests. The international community should join forces as soon as possible to deal with the evil called the Islamic State. We, the MPs of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, declare responsibly that under the powers delegated by the Bulgarian people, we will put a special focus on raising the rights of every citizen inside and outside the territory of our own homeland. At the same time, we are opposed to granting unjustified and unjustified disproportionate preferences to one group of citizens over another. Our aim is to create a basis for the real application of the principles stated in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in a way in which the principles declared as in art. 1 of it, as well as in art. 6 of the Bulgarian Constitution recognition that all people are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should treat each other in a spirit of brotherhood. By wishing for daring, creativity and humanism of all participants in the process of imposing democratic and legal principles, we invite you to a constructive approach in the name of the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria, of the Bulgarian communities abroad, of their expectations and of their future. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. Mrs. Stoyanova, please proceed with art. 27 and the next.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u54	Under art. 27 A proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports it. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 27: Art. 27. (1) The administrative acts referred to in this Chapter shall be challenged before a court under the Administrative Procedure Code, and the administrative contract shall be challenged in accordance with the procedure for contesting an individual administrative act. (2) The challenge of individual administrative acts and of administrative contracts shall not suspend their execution. The documents referred to in art. 26, para. 1 shall be challenged within the time limit laid down for the challenge of an individual administrative act. (3) The judicial review under para. 1 shall not be subject to an individual administrative act where the authority which issued it and the beneficiary are in the same administrative structure. (4) The actions in the grant proceedings shall not be self-disputed. In case of termination under art. 34, para. 4 t. 2, the decision may be contested within one week of notification under Chapter 10a, Section IV of the Administrative Procedure Code. The complaint shall not suspend the further conduct of the relevant grant procedure. (5) Administrative cases shall be dealt with and the court shall give a decision within two months and in the case of para. The second sentence of the second sentence of the 20-day period of the dispute. (6) When contesting individual administrative acts, the state fees collected for judicial proceedings shall be proportionate and shall be defined as a percentage on the material interest. (7) Budgetary organisations within the meaning of § 1, t. 5 of the Additional Provisions of the Public Finance Act are exempt from state fees. Under art. 28 A proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 28: Art. 28. (1) The Council of Ministers shall determine by legislative act: 1. detailed rules on the application of this chapter for the relevant programming period; 2. rules for coordination between the managing authorities of the programmes and the local action groups in relation to the implementation of the VMR approach for the respective programming period. (2) The Deputy Prime Minister or the Minister responsible for the overall organisation, coordination and control of the ESIS fund management system shall establish models of: a form for preliminary selection of concepts of project proposals, an application form with a project proposal, an application form with a draft proposal for a systemic project and an administrative contract form. The Minister of Finance shall establish a model financial plan for the budget line. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Articles 29, 30 and 31. Under art. 32 supposed by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 32: Art. 32. (1) The application form shall be submitted within the time limit specified in the advert, respectively in the invitation under art. 31, para. 3, which cannot be shorter than 60 days, but for infrastructure projects 90 days. The cases in which shorter periods may be applied shall be determined by the act referred to in Article 1. 28, para. 1, c. 1. (2) The application form shall contain the project proposal which shall be developed according to the requirements of the documents under art. 26, para. 1 and the documents referred to therein shall apply. Under art. 33 supposed by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 33: Art. 33. (1) The evaluation and classification of project proposals shall be carried out by a committee appointed by the Head of the Managing Authority within two weeks of the deadline for their submission. In the case of integrated project proposals, the Commission shall be appointed by the Head of the Managing Authority of the lead programme and must include representatives of the other programmes from which the grant financial assistance is granted. (2) The Commission shall evaluate and rank the project proposals within three months of its appointment and in the cases referred to in art. 30, para. 2 up to three months for each individual procedure, unless, exceptionally, the order for its appointment indicates a longer period which may not be longer than 4 months. The work of the committee shall end with an evaluation report to the Head of the Programme Managing Authority or the lead programme. (3) The structural composition and the requirements of the persons participating in the commission and the rules of its work shall be determined by the act referred to in art. 28, para. 1, t. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Under art. 34 The proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, which the Commission supports. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 34: Art. 34. (1) On the basis of the verification of administrative compliance and eligibility, the Committee on Art. 33 draw up a list of draft proposals which are not eligible for technical and financial assessment. The list shall also state the grounds for non-compliance. The list shall be published on the website of the programme concerned and in ISU, and the non-compliance shall be communicated to each of the candidates included in it in accordance with art. 61 of the Administrative Procedure Code. (2) When the check under para. 1 a lack of documents and/or other irregularities has been established, the Commission shall notify the applicant of the irregularities identified and set a reasonable time limit for their removal, which shall not be less than one week. The notification shall also contain information that the suspension of irregularities within the time limit may lead to the termination of proceedings with regard to the applicant. The removal of irregularities cannot lead to an improvement in the quality of the project proposal. (3) An applicant whose project proposal is included in the list ) (a.k.a. 1 may object in writing to the Head of the Managing Authority within one week of notification. (4) The Head of the Managing Authority shall decide on the merits of the opposition within one week of its receipt by: 1. returns the project proposal for technical and financial assessment; 2. terminates the proceedings with regard to the applicant. The Commission shall support the texts of the importer for Articles 35 and 36.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u55	Report to the end of the section.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u56	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, which the Commission supports. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 37: Art. 37. (1) Within two weeks of the approval of the evaluation report, respectively, from the submission of the evidence under art. 36, para. 2, the Head of the Managing Authority shall decide to grant grants on each project proposal included in the list under art. 35, p. 1. (2) In the case of residual financial resource, a grant may also be provided for project proposals from the list under art. 35, p. 2 in the order of their ranking. (3) The decision of the Head of the Managing Authority to grant grant financial assistance shall be subject to an administrative contract with the beneficiary in an order accordingly. The administrative contract shall contain, respectively, the order: 1. the name and seat of the addressee - beneficiary of the aid; 2. name, value, basic activities, indicators, period and deadlines for the implementation of the project for which the grant financial assistance is granted; 3. maximum amount of grant financial assistance as well as the programme, priority axis and the procedure under which it is granted; 4. Specificization of the conditions for the implementation of the project; 5. the conditions for the recovery of financial support provided in the form of recoverable aid in the cases referred to in art. 4, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 6. where applicable, information that the grant has the character of eligible State or minimum aid, with an indication of the act of the European Union under which it is granted or approved. (4) The approved project and the documents under art. 26, para 1, in the part defining the conditions of execution are an integral part of the contract, respectively, of the order. The Commission shall support the texts of the importer for art. 38, 39 and 40. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, which the Commission supports. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 41: Art. 41. (1) The selection of IMRI strategies shall be carried out by a committee appointed by the Head of the Managing Authority of the Programme responsible for the IMRI approach under the Partnership Agreement for the relevant programming period. The Committee shall take part in at least one representative of each managing body of a programme providing grants for the IMP approach. The structure of the Committee shall be determined by the act referred to in Article. 28, para. 1, t. 2. (2) The selection of IMRI strategies shall be carried out simultaneously for all ESIS funds envisaged for the purposes of the IMRI approach and on the basis of criteria approved by the Programme Monitoring Committee. (3) The selection criteria shall be published on the website of the Programme of the Managing Authority and in the ISU together with an invitation to participate in a selection procedure. Local action groups may present strategies within a period of not less than one month of publication. (4) The Committee under para. 1 evaluates and ranks the strategies presented within the term in descending order. The Head of the Managing Authority responsible for the VOMR approach shall, in consultation with the managers of the funding management bodies, approve the strategies for which ESIS funds are provided in accordance with their ranking. The decision approving a VOMN strategy shall also indicate the allocation of ESIS funds by funds and programmes. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 42.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u57	Do you have any speeches, fellow Members? Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My speech is about art. 41 and I must tell you that with this statement, I would also like to warn the importers that because of the election period in which this very important Law was introduced, and because we were busy with other political tasks, we were unable to submit our proposals in time, and between first and second reading some of them, you will see there is a word amendment on the content of the Law. It's about art. 41, para. 1 where the word "Supreme Committee" should be replaced by the word "Supreme Committee" because in the Partnership Agreement and in the Rural Development Programme for 2014 " 2020" the term "Communication" has been adopted and will then be contradicted by the documents. So perhaps once the relevant deadline has passed, we will also submit the corresponding amendment. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 41, para. 4 I propose in the second sentence...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u59	In para. 4 is still the same, is that it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u60	Yeah. The committee will come into conflict, but, again, if Mr. Donchev were here, the man could immediately react, because this thing might have another design that... Excuse me, Mrs. Stoyanova, you are concerned, but he could still decide, because the issue is really very complicated, it concerns many ministries and many governing bodies. It's about the text in art. 41, para. 4 where the Committee evaluates and rankes the strategies submitted in descending order within a time period, the Head of the Managing Authority, we are talking about the transition, in coordination with the leaders of the management bodies of the programmes, provides funding and so on. The proposal we are going to submit is to reject this recoherence, as the strategies of community-led local developments are now called the VOMR, the LAG, these strategies have already been adopted once by one committee and once they have entered, they start to disperse at ministries and at managing authorities for recoherence. And this thing at the meeting with the European experts, which took place at the "Ramada" hotel, there were many voices from the relevant experts that there would be a repeat delay in the procedures and there is no need for a second coordination of these strategies, which is envisaged. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u61	That's by the importer's text, is it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u62	Yeah. There's something there that the importer may not have had a good look at. The Law states that the local initiative groups, or as they are now called the Ministry of Education, can be registered as associations. We propose that if the National Assembly now decides, of course, to add the word "fundations." Last week I was at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and I checked there are two local initiative groups that are registered as foundations. Now this Law tells them you should re-registered as an association. Okay, but you know it's not so easy for a foundation to be broken. This is the other proposal -- it's still in the sense, not editorial, but it's missed in the Law -- it's gone. The text should be added to the text, because it already exists. Finally, in art. 42 should create a new para. 4 in support of what Bajraktarov said in the above text, which concerns Regulation 1303. The proposal is: The actions of the executive director of the local initiative group or the one for fisheries issued in connection with the evaluation of the project proposals shall be subject to appeal to the relevant management bodies of the programme on which it applied for funding. Why? Because, honourable Members, this is about those who are not familiar, about local initiative groups, about their strategies, about the way they work, and within these strategies certain distributions are adopted. There is a great danger if this text is not available that the decisions of the executives concerned can be appealed, and such a text is not in this Law. One local deribey, I speak in the bad sense of the word, one of those tenants, I'm sorry I'm passing the time, but it's important what I mean...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u63	Yeah, I'm just gonna ask you to give me the proposal in writing...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u64	Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u65	...and by what order this appeal should be.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u66	It's not editorial, it can't pass, I understand that too, and then there's no way to appeal. Some local farmer sits there and starts distributing the money, or his man appointed, and no one can contradict him. That's why we're going to submit such a proposal to see how we're going to shape it later. He's really making it difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. [[Definitions between President Dimitar Glauchev and rapporteur Menda Stoyanova.]] Mr. Petrov, did you eventually make a proposal from the stand, or did you say you were going to submit a proposal? As an editorial can only be the gain of the............................................................................................................................................................ The other cannot be editorial for the order of appeal. [[Declarations between President Dimitar Glauchev, rapporteur Menda Stoyanova and MP Petar Petrov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u68	It's not editorial, it's meaning, and we have to do it in order.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u69	So you didn't make a proposal in the proper order. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer, which have been edited by the Commission, Articles 27, 28, 33, 34, 37 and 41, the texts of the importer for Articles 29, 30, 31, 32, 35, 36, 38, 39, 40 and 42 and the name of Section II. They are all approved by the Commission and are in place in its report. We are voting for Articles 27 to 42 and the name of Section II on the Commission report. They voted 104 MPs: 91, none, abstention 13. Articles 27 to 42 of the Commission report and the name of Section II have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u70	Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 43. Under art. 44 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, which the Commission supports. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 44: Art. 44. (1) Project proposal, project proposal for a systemic project, financial plan for a budget line, major project within the meaning of art. 100 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 and a joint action plan within the meaning of art. 104 of that Regulation shall be submitted by the specific beneficiary to the relevant valuation template in the managing authorities. (2) The evaluation of a project proposal, of a major project within the meaning of art. 100 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 and of a joint action plan within the meaning of art. 104 of that Regulation shall be carried out within three months of the date of their submission or the deadline for their submission, if any, in the documents referred to in art. 26, para. 1. (3) The evaluation of a project proposal for a systemic project and a financial plan for a budget line shall be carried out within one month of the date of their submission. (4) In the event of finding irregularities, incompleteness and/or inconsistencies of the documents under para. 1 the relevant managing authority shall send to the specific beneficiary a notification of the identified irregularities, deficiencies and/or discrepancies and shall set a reasonable period of time for their removal which shall not be less than one week. The notification shall also contain information that the suspension may lead to termination of proceedings with regard to the specific beneficiary. The term under para. 2 and 3 shall cease to run until the date of their removal. (5) The assessment shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure set out in the documents referred to in art. 26, para. 1 for the procedure concerned. Under art. 45 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, which the Commission supports. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 45: Art. 45. (1) In the event of a positive outcome of the assessment, the Head of the Managing Authority shall, within one week of the completion of the assessment, decide on: 1. grant of grants for the approved project proposal; 2. provision of grants for a systematic project; 3. approval of a budget line under the conditions of the approved financial plan; 4. sending a large project within the meaning of art. 100 of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 No 1303/2013 for: (a) evaluation by independent experts according to art. 101, para. 3 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 and of notification under art. Article 102 (1) of that Regulation; (b) approval by the European Commission pursuant to art. 102 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013; (c) approval and notification to the European Commission pursuant to art. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. 5. sending of a joint action plan for approval by the European Commission in accordance with art. 107 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. (2) The decision of the Head of the Managing Authority to grant a grant under para. 1, t. 1 and 2 shall be subject to an administrative contract with the beneficiary, respectively in an order containing the props under art. 37, para. 3. The approved project and the documents under art. 26, para. 1 in the part setting out the conditions of execution shall form an integral part of the contract, respectively, of the order. (3) Paragraph 2 shall also apply to the approval of the budget line. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 46. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 47 and offers in para. 4 Finally, after the word 14, para. 3.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 48.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u71	Statements? I won't. I shall put the name of Section III to the vote, art. 43 by importer, art. 44, which is also edited by the Commission by importer, art. 45, edited by the Import Commission, Articles 46, 47, 48 by importer. The name of the Section, as well as the Articles 43 to 48, are supported by the Commission and are in place in its report. Please vote on Articles 43 to 48 including the name of Section III on the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: 88, no objection, abstention 9. Articles 43 to 48 inclusive, as well as the name of Section III on the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u72	The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four. The Commission shall support the text of the importer and of Articles 49 to 54 by importer. The Commission shall support the text on the name of Chapter 5 and Section I as well as the text of the importer as Articles 55 to 57 inclusive. Under art. 58 has a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 58: Art. 58. (1) To the extent that otherwise provided, costs shall be eligible if they have been paid within the eligibility period for the programme period concerned. In cases referred to in art. 55, para. 1, t. 2 and 3 costs shall be eligible if actions constituting a basis for their recovery have been carried out within the eligibility period. (2) Project costs shall be eligible for projects which shall be carried out only within the programme area of the respective programme under art. 3, para. 2 or under the terms of art. 70 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 where they are carried out outside the area of use. The Commission shall support the text of the importer and for art. 59.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u73	Do you have any speeches, fellow Members? I won't. I put to the vote the name of Chapter 4, the name of Chapter 5, the name of Section I and Articles 49 to 59 including, in accordance with the Commission report. Please vote. They voted 99 MPs: 90, none, abstentioned 9. The name of Chapter 4 of Chapter 5 of Section I of that Chapter 5 and Articles 49 to 59 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u74	The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II, as well as Articles 60 to 68 by importer including, as in art. 61. The Commission proposes in para. 2 Finally, after the words "al." To add.............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u75	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Section II on the Commission report, Articles 60 to 68, including by importer, as in art. 61 The Commission proposes in para. 2 Finally, after the words "al." To add............................................................................................. 3.................................................................................. Please vote. Vote 95 MPs: 87 against none, abstention 8. The name of Section II and Articles 60 to 68, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u76	The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section III and the importer's text on art. 69. Under art. 70 has a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which the Commission supports. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 70: Art. 70. (1) Financial support by ESI Funds may be cancelled in whole or in part by carrying out a financial correction on the following grounds: 1. Where, as regards the beneficiary, there is a conflict of interest within the meaning of art. 57 of Regulation (EU) No 966/2012; 2. For violation of the State aid rules within the meaning of art. 107 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union; 3. For violation of the principles of art. Art. 4, par. 8, art. 7 and 8 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013; 4. For violation of the requirement for durability of operations in cases and within the time limits laid down in art. 71 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013; 5. For the project or part thereof, no audit trail and/or analytical cost accounting in the beneficiary accounting system is available; 6. For non-compliance with information and communication measures binding on beneficiaries; 7. For non-compliance with approved indicators; 8. In the case of incidental revenue received in connection with the implementation of the project; 9. For another irregularity which constitutes a violation of the applicable law of the European Union and/or Bulgarian legislation committed by action or omission by the beneficiary, which has or would have the effect of harming ESIS funds. (2) The cases of irregularities for which financial corrections under para. 1, t. 9 shall be referred to in the Act of the Council of Ministers. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Articles 71 and 72 and under art. 73 The Commission proposes the following version: Art. 73. (1) The financial correction shall be determined on the basis and amount by a reasoned decision of the Head of the Managing Authority which approved the project. (2) Before the decision under para. 1 The managing authority shall ensure that the beneficiary is able to submit within a reasonable period of time, which shall not be less than two weeks, its written objections to the merits and extent of the financial correction carried out and, where necessary, to give evidence. (3) The decision under para. 1 shall be issued within one month of the submission of the objections under para. 2 and its reasoning necessarily discuss the evidence submitted by the beneficiary and the objections made by the beneficiary. (4) The decision under para. 1 may be appealed before a court under the Administrative Procedure Code (APC), and the provisions of art. 27, para. 3.5 to 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Articles 74, 75, 76 and 77. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Six. Under art. 78 has a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which the Commission supports. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 78: Art. 78. (1) An official in a management or control body who, in the performance of his duties guilty of breach of a period laid down in this law, shall be punished with a fine of 50 to 1000 BGN and in the event of a repeated infringement... with a fine of 100 to 2000 BGN. (2) The violations of para. 1 shall be established by acts drawn up by inspectors in the inspectorates under the Administration Act. (3) Criminal decrees shall be issued by the head of administration or organisation in whose structure the management or control body is or by a person designated by him. Under art. 79 The proposal of the National Representative Stoyanova in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 79: Art. 79. The establishment of infringements, the issuance, appeal and execution of criminal ordinances shall be carried out under the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u77	Do you have any speeches, Members of Parliament? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Section III, Articles 69-71 and 74 to 77 by importer, the edited import texts for Articles 70, 73, 78 and 79 and the name of Chapter Six. All these texts are supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 89 MPs: 84, none, abstention 5. The name of Section III, Chapter Six, and Articles 69 to 79, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u78	The Commission supports the entry into force of the Additional Provisions. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1 by proposing the following wording: ................................................................................... For the 1. "Administrative contract' is an explicit statement by the Head of the Managing Authority to provide financial support with ESIS funds, under which, with the agreement of the beneficiary, the rights and obligations for the implementation of the approved project are created for the beneficiary. The Administrative Contract shall be formed in a written agreement between the Head of the Managing Authority and the beneficiary replacing the issuing of an administrative act. 2. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 3. A project proposal is a project proposal to provide grants under two or more programmes under art. 3, para. 2, one of which is designated as the lead. 4. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. 5. The awards are financial resources awarded as remuneration following a competition by a managing authority or beneficiary of a grant; 6. "Programme area" is a concept within the meaning of art. 2, p. 7 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013; 7. "Financial instruments" is a concept within the meaning of art. 2, p. 11 of Regulation (EU) No The Commission proposes to reject § 2 as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 1. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... (1) The rules for granting grants shall also apply to the ESIS funds granted as recoverable aid, insofar as nothing else is provided for in this law. (2) When providing financial support in the form of recoverable aid in the documents referred to in art. 26, para. 1 shall also be determined and the conditions under which it is subject to full or partial recovery from the beneficiary. The Commission proposes to reject § 3 as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 1. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. (1) For prizes provided by ESIS funds competitions shall be held in compliance with the requirements for publicity, transparency and equal treatment laid down by a regulatory act of the Council of Ministers. (2) The ESIS funds for prizes shall be granted to a beneficiary under the order of Chapter Three The Commission also proposes that § 4 be rejected as para. 1 is reflected in its systematic place in § 1, para. 2 and 3 are reflected in a new § 2. The Commission proposes that § 5 be rejected as para. 1 is reflected in its systematic place in § 1 a para. 2 and 3 are reflected in a new § 3. The Commission proposes that § 6 be rejected as para. 1 is reflected in its systematic place in art. 5, para. 3 a para. 2 is reflected in a new § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u79	Let's stop here, it's going to get very complicated. Do you have any comments? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision, the wording of the importer for § 1, the rejection of § 2, as reflected in § 1, and the creation of a new § 2 with its respective content, the rejection of § 3, as it is reflected in § 1, the creation of a new § 3 with its corresponding content on the Commission report, the rejection of § 4, which is reflected in its systematic place in § 1, part thereof is reflected in a new § 2, the rejection of § 5, as it is reflected in its systematic place in § 1, and another part is reflected in the rejection of § 6, as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 5, para. 3, para. 2 is reflected in a new § 9. Please vote on all these proposals on the Commission report. Vote 84 MPs: 75, none, abstention 9. The proposals presented to you by the Parliamentary Tribune by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and reflected in the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u80	According to § 7 "Proposition of the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 4: ............................................ (1) For the Rural Development Programme, the functions of management and control bodies under this law shall be carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and by the State Fund of Agriculture. (2) For the program under para. 1 information under art. 21, para. 1 shall be introduced, collected and systematized in the Integrated Administration and Control System under Chapter 3 of the Agricultural Support Act. (3) Grant financial assistance under the programme under para. Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on support for rural development by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1698/2005 and Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financing, management and monitoring of the common agricultural policy and repealing Regulations (EEC) No No 279/98, (EC) No 814/2000, (EC) No 1290/2005 and (EC) No 485/2008, in the Agricultural Support Act or in an implementing act. (4) For the 2014-2020 programming period, the VMR approach shall not apply to settlements supported by sustainable urban development. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8 and § 9 which shall become § 5 and § 6 respectively. The Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version for § 10, which becomes § 7: .................................................... (1) This law lays down implementing measures for Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 laying down common provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund and laying down general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006. (2) The provisions of this Law shall apply subject to the requirements of the delegated and implementing acts adopted by the European Commission under Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u81	Do you have any speeches, fellow Members? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for paragraphs 7, 8, 9 and 10. Paragraph 7 becomes Paragraph 4 of the Commission's report after revision, § 8 becomes § 5, § 9 " § 6 and § 10 " § 7" after the version of the Commission's report. Please vote on paragraphs 4, 5, 6 and 7 on the Commission report. They voted 93 MPs: 83, none, abstention 10. Paragraphs 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u82	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of the division. Paragraph 11? a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... (1) Within 6 months of the entry into force of this Act, the Council of Ministers shall adopt or implement its implementing acts. (2) The regulations adopted by the Council of Ministers governing public relations which are subject to this law shall retain their effect in respect of the 2007-2013 programming period. (3) The normal acts under para. 2 shall apply until the adoption of the acts under para. 1 and for the programming period 2014-2020, in so far as they do not conflict with this law. (4) Within one month of the entry into force of this law, the Deputy Prime Minister for EU Funds and Economic Policy and the Minister of Finance shall validate the templates under art. 28, para. 2. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 9: ..................................................... The person managing the Fund shall also perform the functions of the holding fund for the financial engineering instruments under the Operational Programme "Development of the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy" and the Operational Programme "Regional development" co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund for the 2007-2013 programming period. 2013 after the expiry of the framework and financial agreements concluded between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Fund under the Jeremie initiative and between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank under the Jessica initiative. Paragraph 12 "Proposition of the People's Representative Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose an amendment to § 12 which shall become § 10: ..................................................... (1) The proceedings initiated and unfinished until the entry into force of this law shall be completed in the order so far. (2) The legal proceedings relating to complaints against statements of financial corrections of the Head of the Managing Authority shall be completed before the entry into force of this Act. 27, para. 3.5... 7.................................................................................... Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to create a new § 11: ..................................................... The money of the person managing the Fund of Funds available at the entry into force of this law is transferred to an account of the Bulgarian National Bank. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u83	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u84	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! By thanking colleagues from the Financial Commission for the support of our proposal, I take the floor to draw attention to the fact that in the reference. 27, para. 3, 5 " 7 " seems to me that there is a mistake regarding para. 3. As a matter of fact, al. 3 is an exclusion provision, and we should be heading for para. 1, where the basic rule is. I guess it's a technical mistake, since it's art. 72 was transferred systematically into art. 27. I'm making a proposal for editing in this situation, where para. 2 to read: The legal proceedings for complaints against statements of financial corrections of the Head of the Managing Authority shall be completed in accordance with art. 27, para. 1. not 3 as written, 5.. 7. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u85	Thank you. Statements? There are no other speeches. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Danail Kirilov, in § 10, para. 2, finally: Art. 27, para. 3 (to be replaced by I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 1 " and remain" "5" "7". We're replacing you. Please vote. Vote 98 MPs: 87, against 1, abstention 10. The proposal of the National Representative Daniel Kirilov is accepted. I shall put to the vote the name of the section "Transitional and final provisions'; the edited § 11 by importer which becomes § 8 in the Commission report; the creation of a new § 9 with the corresponding text on the Commission report; the edited § 12 by importer which becomes § 10 in the Commission report; the creation of a new § 11 by its corresponding content in accordance with the Commission report; and the text of the importer for § 13 which becomes § 12 in the Commission report; and § 10 was also with the editorial amendment already adopted by Daniel Kirilov. Please vote. They voted 101 MPs: 92, none, abstention 9. The name of the division of the Member State of transit and final provisions and paragraphs 8 to 12, including the Commission's report, have been adopted, and the Draft at second reading has also been adopted. Before we move on to the next item on the agenda, allow me, honourable Members, to inform you that guests up on the balcony are the representative of the Polish Senate of Jacek Vlosovic, as well as students from the Primary School of St. Kliment Ohridski. From the village of Tishevitsa, Vratsa district. Let's say hello. [[Applause.]] Thank you. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR FISHING AND AQUACULTURES. First-vote report on the Committee on Agriculture and Food. The President of the Commission has the floor of the People's Representative Rumen Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on Draft amending and supplementing the Law Fisheries and aquaculture, No 554-01-159, imported by Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs On 1 October 2015, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on November 11th 2015 at which he discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture No 554-01-159, submitted by Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs on 1 October 2015. The Commission's work was attended by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food.Desislava Taneva Minister, Vasil Grudev, Assoc. Georgi Kostov and Dr. Tsvetan Dimitrov. The bill was presented by the MP Zhivko Martinov. The Law proposes that commercial fishing in the Black Sea and the Danube may also be carried out by natural or legal persons when those persons use fishing vessels with a total length of less than 10 metres and they will not be subject to a permit for commercial fishing and the right to absorb resources from fish and other aquatic organisms. Accordingly, masters of fishing vessels below 10 metres shall be exempted from the obligation to keep a fishing logbook. They will record catch data by species and quantities on a form that they will provide twice a year in the Executive Fisheries and Aquaculture Agency. The form should be issued on the basis of a sampling plan validated by the order of the Executive Director of the Executive Fisheries and Aquaculture Agency. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food agreed to waive the obligation to register as legal persons or sole traders within the meaning of the Commercial Law of natural persons who own fishing vessels under 10 metres. As regards the second proposal, the Ministry explained that the exemption of masters of small vessels from the obligation to keep a fishing logbook should be preceded by a sampling plan drawn up on the basis of a methodology adopted by the European Commission. All Members of the Parliament agreed that the rules in force constitute an impossible financial and administrative burden for a large proportion of the owners of small fishing vessels, which should be reduced. They strongly supported the arguments expressed by the Ministry and stated that the comments of the Ministry should be taken into account and that the texts should be refined between the first and second reading of the Bill. In conclusion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 15 votes for the Fisheries and Aquaculture Act No 554-01-159, submitted by Ivan Valkov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 1 October 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. On behalf of the importers, there is the People's Representative Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Fellow MPs, the fishing fleet in Bulgaria is of the order of about three thousand fishing vessels. Of these, about 90% are fishing vessels under 10 meters. These are the fishing boats. The catch provided by these vessels is for the addition of the family budget, mainly for its own needs, thus preserving the bit and tradition of this ancient activity. All regulations of the European Union, as well as the statements of the European constitutions in this regard, give priority to catches by these fishing vessels below 10 metres. The proposal made concerns fishing boats, not using daily fishing logbooks, for which several years ago it was agreed to be completed, as this greatly aggravates the work of fishermen. We believe it is unnecessary paperwork, which is why we have made this proposal. It is agreed with all fishing groups. It is no accident that MPs from the Black Sea region and from the Danube River stand behind it. As you can see, this proposal is unanimously supported by the committee responsible for this Law. I call on you to vote for this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u89	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. I'm opening the debate. An application for a statement was made by the national representative Dimitar Bajraktarov of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Valkov, the group of the Patriotic Front will support the bill. We believe that it will put an end to the many-year torments of the Bulgarian fishermen to put it simply. Moreover, this centuries-old tradition will remain. You have expressed this position very precisely and correctly in the Opinion. We'll support her. I want to make a slight analogue and a reference, because we will expect the same support to preserve the tradition in terms of production for the own needs of homemade brandy. There's almost no difference. I hope that, when the Bill we have introduced, the Law on excises and tax warehouses will also be supported, because we must support the Bulgarian tradition and that on the basis of which many cities have been created on the Bulgarian Black Sea coast. On the basis of the fishermen was created the city of Burgas and Aheloy, but not to list them all. We will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u91	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Danev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! BSP left Bulgaria will support the Bill with some conventions. Everything my colleague said before me is true. The idea of colleague Valkov and the group of MPs to bring this amendment to the Law we consider useful and therefore we have supported it in the Commission. The concerns we expressed at the Commission meeting, which were supported by the statement of the Minister for Agriculture and Food, is that, in approving these changes, we can create an opportunity for sanctions by the European Commission with regard to some of the amendments adopted in the Law, namely, what do we do with the proposal? Indeed, 90% of vessels are not vessels, but boats fishing for their own use and not commercial fishing. The proposal for a change to not issue permits for this type of fishing boats and the acquisition of the right to provide resources from fish and other aquatic organisms is justified. In this case, if there is no permit, what kind of hunting would these boats be doing? Therefore, between first and second readings, it is necessary, in our view, to introduce such an amendment, which should regulate and create order in those individuals who are engaged in such fishing, an order should be carried out to enable these fishermen and boats not to violate European requirements. The second thing is the relief that we made at first reading, the captains of these boats not to keep fishing logbooks, but to keep a form based on approved Methodology, on a sampling plan by the European Commission. This form should be approved by the Executive Agency..... and According to the proposal, this form has to be presented to the Executive Agency..... and aquaculture................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The methodology requires that such samples be kept on a monthly basis, a form which, between first and second readings, may also have to undergo a change. That is why BSP left Bulgaria states that between first and second readings, if these changes are not made, perhaps we will refrain from the support, although this change was set in our election program, in our election campaign. That is why we supported at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u93	Thank you, Mr. Danev. - What's the line? I won't. Is there anyone else who would like to make another statement? Mr. Zhelev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the profession of the fisherman is a romantic profession perhaps one of the most romantic professions and one of the least profitable. There is no reason for the song to be sung about my poor fisherman and there is not a single song for a rich fisherman. In recent years, fish resources have been reduced significantly. Fisheries has already ceased to be a profession that can feed families and become more of a hobby. The project is quite timely and that it is really necessary to present the forms not once every six months, but monthly is only a detail that we will remove between first and second readings. Let us make sure that we do not burden the few remaining people who are engaged in this ancient and wonderful profession and deprive our Black Sea coast of romance. Another point is that the problem is not small boats up to ten metres, but large fishing vessels, which, despite the ban, use bottom trawls, destroy the primer, hatchles, caviar and thus compromise in the future the fish resource which is already too poor in the Black Sea. I call on you to support the Law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u95	Thank you, Mr. Zhelev. For speech the folk representative from BSP left Bulgaria Mr. Petar Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u96	Colleagues, I would very briefly like to give the opinion of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, as we are also solving a business climate problem with this Law. We absolutely support him. An injustice from a few years ago you remember the ongoing debates that we had on the topic "Casing apparatus in a fishing boat." That's what this is about. Three years in a row, we made a moratorium on time limits. Thank you to the colleagues who brought it in. It's the first step, it's just a ZID to free fishermen from this shit. She can't have a boat four or five metres in length with a fishing captain, a cash register, a diary, freezers up to four degrees of cooling, a navigation system and all that shit. Many years ago, this mistake was made, and the Romanians made it. The largest fishing fleets in Europe are: first "Portugal," second "Bulgaria," third "Romania." You see, this is absurd. However, the next step is very important. By the middle of the year, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Agency had to draw up a new law. For certain purely administrative reasons, I do not say who is guilty, who is wrong, who is right, the agency split into two, part of it remained in Sofia, part went to Burgas. As you can see, we have no law so far. From the Economic Commission we have spoken with colleague Rumen Hristov, with the minister, we are promised as soon as possible, at the beginning of the year to have a law, as this ZID does not solve the problems. We support the Law and we will vote. In order not to miss the quorum, I suggest we proceed immediately to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u97	I accept your statement as a statement. I have to ask, are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other MPs who wish to speak? I won't. We're closing the debate. I put to the vote at first reading Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, No 554-01-159, submitted by Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs on 1 October 2015. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. [[Applause.]] Go ahead, Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of Parliament, I am making a procedural proposal to reduce the deadline for submission of proposals between the first and second votes to three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u99	I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Ivan Valkov to reduce the deadline for submitting a proposal to three days. Vote 88 MPs: 86 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, there are only two minutes left until the time for our regular rest. I'm calling a break until 12:00. [[After the break]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u100	Honourable Members, we are continuing the plenary session. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. The next item on the agenda is: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR TERRITORY TERRITORY ASSISTANCE [[General draft, on the basis of the laws adopted in the first vote on 28 May 2015 with importers Petar Slavov and a group of MPs, as well as the bill submitted on 11 February 2015 and the Council of Ministers on 28 April 2015]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm The report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government will introduce us to the people's representative Irena Kotseva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u101	Proposal from the National Representative Nayden Zelenogorski: The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 2: "2." A new para is being created. 5 with the following content: The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works shall adopt regulations for the appointment, organisation and work of the expert councils under paragraph 1. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 2 a comma is finally placed and added as well as representatives of professional organizations in the field of planning, investment design and construction.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u102	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Nayden Zelenogorski in his unsupported part of the item. 2, as presented to you by the rapporteur. Vote 68 MPs: for 7, against 4, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 2, together with its corresponding content, in accordance with the Commission's report. Vote 71 MPs: 66, none, abstention 5. The Commission's proposal to establish § 2 with its content, in accordance with the Commission's report, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u103	Proposal by the National Representative Alexander Nenkov, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15, para. 6 the word "the Order" is replaced by "the Act" and the words "the issuance" are replaced by "the issuance."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u104	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 3 together with its content, in accordance with the Commission's report. Vote 75 MPs: for 72, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u105	Proposal by the National Representative Alexander Nenkov, which is generally supported under the heading. 1. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 2............................................... Seven is canceled. The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 the words "Societal infrastructure objects', "public property', "green areas', "green areas', and the common networks and facilities of the technical infrastructure' shall be replaced by "green system objects', "social and technical infrastructure'; "public property'.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u106	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal made by the MP Alexander Nenkov, which is not supported by the committee at its second point. They voted 71 MPs: for 3, against 7, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 4 with its respective content, in accordance with the Commission's report. 70 MPs voted: 67, none, abstention 3. Paragraph 4 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u107	There is a proposal from the MP Nayden Zelenogorski. The proposal under point 1 has been withdrawn. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. In Article In a building in floor property mode, the necessary parking spaces shall be provided with the investment project in: 1. parking garage with the status of an independent site in the building, or 2. parking garage with status of common part in the building, or 3. separate parking spaces with the status of belonging to the respective individual sites in the building.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u108	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 5, with its content, in accordance with the report on the same. Vote 80 MPs: 78 against 1, abstention 1. Paragraph 5 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u109	There is a proposal from the MP Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Nayden Zelenogorski. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38 the following amendments and additions are 1. In para. 5 the words "Securities and premises" shall be replaced by "Securities"; the word "residential" shall be deleted; the words "in case" shall be replaced by "supplied" provided that the requirements of art. 185, para. 1, t. 2 - 4 and a sentence second is created: "If these conditions are not available, the requirements of art. 185, para. 2 and 3. 2. The creation of para. 10: (b) Exemptions from the provision under para. 9 shall be permitted by the authority to issue the building permit under the conditions of art. 43, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u110	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 6 with its respective content, in accordance with the Commission's report. Vote 84 MPs: for 83, against no, abstention 1. Paragraph 6 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u111	There is a proposal from the MP Nayden Zelenogorski. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the Where the regulated plot of land is a common part of the building of a floor property, the necessary parking spaces can also be provided in the free yard area by allocating the use of part of the yard of the general assembly of the floor owners, subject to the regulations for the minimum mandatory landscaped yard area. When the land on which the residential building is built does not have the status of a common part under art. 38, para.1 of the Property Act, parking is provided by allocating the use on this part of the free yard area which is not necessary for the use of the building as intended.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u112	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 7 in accordance with its report. They voted 83 MPs: 80 against 1, abstention 2. Paragraph 7 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u113	There is a proposal from the MP Nayden Zelenogorski. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 8. ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 48,
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u114	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 8, together with its content, in accordance with the Commission's report. They voted 83 MPs: 81, none, abstention 2. The proposal to create a new § 8 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u115	There is a proposal from the MP Dora Yankova, Kircho Karagyozov and Manol Genov: In § 3 is created t. 3: "3." A sentence third is created: The State shall provide the necessary financial resources for the performance of the functions of the body under art. 225a, para. 1 under the enforcement of the waiver orders. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Nayden Zelenogorski. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... Article 53a is amended as follows: Art. 53a. The welded and tolerated constructions not included in the scheme of construction of the regulated land property shall be removed from the contracting entity at the latest until the authorised construction is completed. If the contracting authority fails to comply with this, the construction shall not be put into service.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u116	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Dora Yankova, Kircho Karagyozov and Manol Genov, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 11 against 12, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the edited text of the importer under § 3, which in the Commission's report becomes § 9. We are voting § 9 on the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: 77 against 1, abstention 2. Paragraph 9 of the Commission report has been adopted. Dear colleagues, tomorrow, in connection with Friday's parliamentary control, in which we will not have enough presence of ministers for various reasons, I offer you all respectable, on the basis of art. 102, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, parliamentary control on Friday, 11 December 2015, shall begin at 12.30 p.m., and the National Assembly shall continue its work on a legislative programme, according to the weekly programme adopted by the National Assembly. I'm asking you to vote on the proposal I made. Vote 87 MPs: 75 against 8, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. We'll have legislative activity by 12:00 tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u117	Under § 4, there is a proposal from the MP Nayden Zelenogorski. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54, para. 1 sentence, third, the words "and temporary construction works" shall be removed on its account on the basis of an order of the Head of the Directorate for National Construction Control or of an official authorised by it under the order of the ordinance under art. 225, para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v (v) (v) (v) (v (v) (v) (v) (v (v) (v) (v) (v) (v (v) (v) (v) (v (v (v) (v) (v (v) (v (v) (v) (v) (v (v (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v (v)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u118	Paragraph 4 statements? There aren't any. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 4 by importer, which becomes § 10. Vote 84 MPs: 82 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u119	There is a proposal from the MP Nayden Zelenogorski. The Commission does not support the proposal. A new § 4a is hereby created: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55 the words "building permit," respectively, shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u120	There's a proposal for a new paragraph. Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Nayden Zelenogorski for the creation of a new paragraph, not supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 12, against 5, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u121	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 11. A proposal from the MP Nayden Zelenogorski. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 95, para. 2 after the word "regions" is added to the country and after the word "supplies" is added to the Black Sea and Danube coast.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u122	Statements? I won't. We vote Anblok § 5 by importer, which becomes § 11, supported by the Commission and by the version of § 6 by importer, which becomes § 12. Vote 84 MPs: 82 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u123	There is a proposal from the MPs Dora Yankova, Kircho Karagyozov and Manol Genov. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 96, para. A sentence 2 is created: the Council of Ministers shall adopt a summary report annually to take account of the impact of the implementation of the measures and activities. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 96 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 Finally a comma shall be placed and added by the central and territorial authorities of the executive power and by the owners and users of the property under conditions and in order laid down by a regulation of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. 2. In para. 2 the words of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works shall be replaced by the order under para. 1.................................................................................. 3. In para. 3 words are replaced by "In landslides', the word "plans' is replaced by the "plans', the word "contribution' is replaced by "agreement' and a sentence is created second: "The agreement of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works shall be entered into the building permit. 4. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: Construction and installation works other than those under para. 3 for which a building permit is required shall be authorised in landslide areas entered in the register under art. 95, para. 2, on the basis of a detailed development plan entered into force after: 1. implementation of geo-defense measures and activities under para. 3 if it has been demonstrated that this is necessary with results from general and local sustainability studies carried out on the territory adopted by a specialised body of the relevant expert council to the authority competent to approve the detailed spatial plan; 2. taking into account the positive effect of the implementation of the measures and activities under point 2. 1; 3. prior agreement of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, issued within one month of the receipt of the request, which shall be included in the building permit. 5. The creation of para. 6: In areas for which a construction ban has been imposed by order under art. 198, para. 3 until all the conditions of the order for the areas for which it is imposed are fulfilled and until its cancellation on a proposal from the relevant authorities of local government, prior agreement under para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u124	Statements on the texts presented to you? There aren't any. We are voting for the unsupported proposal of the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. Vote 81 MPs: 13 against 3, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 7 by importer, which becomes § 13 in the version of the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: 81, against no, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u125	A proposal from the MP Nayden Zelenogorski. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 103a, para. 1 is amended as follows: The general planning project shall take into account the predictions of the completed detailed design plans approved by the date of issue of the authorisations under art. 124. A change in the purpose, manner and nature of the construction of land properties for which an approved detailed development plan is available is allowed only for the construction of sites of public state property or public municipal property, as well as for the protection of public interests.. Protecting the environment and human health, preserving agricultural, forestry and protected areas and protected areas...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u126	Thank you. Statements? I won't. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission to create a new § 14. 90 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u127	A proposal from the MP Nayden Zelenogorski. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 125 para. 4 is The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u128	Thank you. Statements? There aren't any. We are voting for the Commission proposal to create a new § 15 and the text of § 8 by importer, supported by the Commission with a new number They voted 93 MPs: 91, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u129	A proposal from the MP Nayden Zelenogorski. The Commission does not support the proposal: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 9: 1.A new item is created. 1: 1. The second sentence of Paragraph 1 after the words................................... for land properties outside the borders of settlements and settlements.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2. In paragraph 2, the words "for land estates outside the boundaries of settlements and settlements' shall be deleted. 3. Points 1 and 2 of paragraph 9 shall become points 3 and 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u130	Thank you. Statements? There aren't any. We are voting for the unsupported proposal of the MP Nayden Zelenogorski. 90 MPs voted: 14 against 5, abstention 71. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 9 by importer, which becomes § 17, supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u131	A proposal from the MP Nayden Zelenogorski. The Commission does not support the proposal: "Paragraph 10 is amended as follows: § 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 131, para. 2, p. 2 is repealed. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10 which shall become § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u132	Thank you. Statements under § 10 by importer? I won't. We are voting for the unsupported proposal of the MP Nayden Zelenogorski. They voted 93 MPs: 15 against 5, abstention 73. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for § 10 by importer, which becomes § 18, supported by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u133	Proposal from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov. The Commission does not support the proposal: A new § 10a is being created: § 10a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 132 is created. 3: The actions for the approval of detailed planning plans in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall be implemented in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 shall enter into force after the completion of all proceedings brought in connection with complaints against them. In case of partial revocation of an act approving a detailed plan under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1, the approved plan shall not take legal effect in any part of it, and the competent authority shall be obliged to rule again throughout its scope, taking into account the motives of the court. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u134	Thank you. Speeches on both texts? There aren't any. We are voting on the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Alexander Nenkov, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 8 against 3, abstention 86. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the text of § 11, which becomes § 19, supported by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 90, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u135	A proposal from the MP Nayden Zelenogorski. The Commission does not support the proposal: A new § 11a is being created: § 11a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 137, para. 1, t. 2 (d) The words "and closure of waste depots by surface sealing with a top insulation screen' shall be deleted. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 139 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 2 words.............................................................................. 169, para. In the case of vehicles of categories M1, M2, N2, N2, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: All documents of the project shall be signed and stamped by the designer of the part concerned and agreed with a signature by the contracting authority and by the lead designer within the meaning of art. 162, para. 7. The calculations carried out by the designer in the relevant part shall not be agreed by signature.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u136	Thank you. Statements on these two texts? There aren't any. We are voting for the unsupported proposal by the MP Nayden Zelenogorski. Vote 92 MPs: 11 against 3, abstention 78. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for § 12, which becomes § 20 in the version of the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u137	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 140, para. 3 in a sentence first after the words "art." 134, para. 6 The design visa shall be notified to the interested parties under art. 131, except where declarations of consent with notary certification of signatures or interested persons are presented, are only the persons on whose initiative the visa is issued. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 143, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 words with the essentials shall be replaced by the mains. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 words................................................................................. 125, para. 6s are replaced by
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u138	Thank you. Statements on both paragraphs? There aren't any. We are voting for paragraphs 13 and 14 by importer, which become paragraphs 21 and 22 respectively in the version of the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 91, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u139	Proposal from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 144, para. 1, t. 2 words.............................................................................. 12, para. Art. 3, Art. 41, para. Art. 2, Art. 50, 51, 58, 59, art. 133, para. Art. 6 and art. 134, para. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation and for the implementation of Regulation (EU,
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u140	Statements on this text? There aren't any. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 23. Vote 92 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u141	According to § 15 the proposal from the National Representative Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 147, para. 1, t. 3 words - 200 sq. the following points are inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Nayden Zelenogorski. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 147 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 : (a) point 3 is repealed; (b) c. 5 after the word "height" is added to the word "height" (from 1.20 m); (c) point 6 is repealed; (d) point 7 is amended as follows: "7." dense fences of regulated land properties with a height of the dense part from 0,60 m to 2,20 m; (e) points 8, 9 and 12 are repealed. 2. In para. 2 words by para. 1, t. 1, 3, 5, 7 and 12 1, t. 1, 4, 5 and 7
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u142	Thank you. Statements? You're welcome to speak on both paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u143	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Our proposal is to increase the area of the greenhouses to build a lighter, lighter procedure. At the moment, all greenhouses over 200 square meters. m, which are made, shall be made after pre-defined plans, which shall be agreed on by all regulations, as a project for the construction of a hotel or any other part of a principal purpose other than that for farmers should be agreed. Currently there are several thousand acres of greenhouses only in Southwestern Bulgaria, built as illegal greenhouses. This means that all farmers prefer to build elementary structures in order to grow vegetables a little earlier and compete with imported vegetables from Macedonia and Greece. We believe that it is right to put in some order, a more relaxed procedure for legitimising such structures so as to enable people to regulate production. On the one hand, this will enable them to legitimize their constructions with a small amount of money under a light procedure so that the same people can then develop a small family business. After all, a greenhouse of two, three or five acres is just as much as it takes for a family to provide its livelihood. Our proposal is in art. 147 t. 3 to change, such as the words "area of 200 sq. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. Only in the territories around Petrich and Sandanski now has no less than 10,000 built. Dekara greenhouses. Ninety-seven percent of them are currently illegal. That is why we propose to regulate all this action to make these same people secure themselves, to have their own regular, legitimate business. We consider this to be the right thing to do. It will enable the people from these regions around Petrich, Sandanski, Kardzhali, Momchilgrad, Parvomay, Plovdiv, where people have small farms, to develop them and to have legitimate business. The other motive for which it was refused is that gasification and other things are required for which the right to pass and hence the design is required. Colleagues, no one who makes two or three acres of greenhouse doesn't gasify them. Nobody who makes two or three acres of greenhouses electrifies them. These are simple structures that allow people to produce a little earlier to be placed on the market. This will help us impose Bulgarian products, limit imports from Greece and Macedonia to some extent and develop our farms. At the moment, there are deserted many lands, so by enabling the construction of these facilities to a lighter procedure, we will probably get there to reduce unemployment and ensure better income for farmers. Please: think about and support this proposal, because it is really reasonable! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u144	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. We are voting, honourable Members, first of all the proposal of the MP Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 91 MPs: 30, against 3, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the wording of § 15, which becomes § 24 in the version of the Commission. Please vote. Vote 88 MPs: 75, none, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u145	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 148 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 6 the word "Emergency" is replaced by "Emergency" and "Emergency" and "Emergency" shall be deleted and a sentence shall be created second: "Establishment papers may also be completed during the emergency and recovery works or after their execution and shall be transmitted to the authority competent to issue the building permit." 2. In para. 13 words and drawing up a technical passport in accordance with art. 176a (s) shall be deleted. Proposal from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Art. 149, para. 5 the word "supplied" is replaced by "supplied" and "supplied" is replaced by "supplied."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u146	Statements? I won't. We vote on the Anblock text of § 16, which becomes § 25 in the version of the Commission and the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Alexander Nenkov, supported by the Commission to create a new § 26. Please vote. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u147	According to § 17 there is a proposal from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Nayden Zelenogorski. The Commission does not support the proposals under this item. 1, 4, 6, and 9. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal in the rest of it. "1." internal arrangements and change of use of premises and separate premises in non-residential buildings which do not affect the construction of the building; 4. agricultural buildings and constructions from the complementary construction under art. Art. 44 and under Art. 46, para. 1; 6. pools with volume up to 100 cc. m in enclosed land estates; 9. pneumatic (inflatable) warehouses or coatings with an area of up to 100 sq. m;ssssss;sssssssss;sssssss;sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In the case of aid granted A construction permit shall not be required for: 1. ongoing renovation of buildings, buildings, facilities and installations; 2. Current repair and maintenance of the technical infrastructure elements under art. 64, para. 1, which does not change the track and technical characteristics; 3. greenhouses with an area of up to 200 sq. m; 4. supporting walls up to 1.2 m above the level of their base terrain when they are not an element of transport objects; 5. excavations and dumps with depth or height up to 1 m and area up to 30 sq. m; 6. glazing of balconies and loggers; 7. tombstones, tombstones and crosses with height up to 3 m; 8. field conservation of real cultural values; 9. conservation and restoration of facades and artistic elements and frescoes in the interior of architectural-building and artistic cultural values and conservation of archaeological real cultural values; 10. installation of building gas installations in residential and fork buildings. 11. light brick fences and solid fences with height of the dense part up to 0,6 m within the land property; 12. garden and park elements with height up to 2.5 m above the adjoining terrain.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u148	Thank you. Statements? I won't. We are voting first on the unsupported part of the proposal of the MP Nayden Zelenogorski. Please vote. They voted 82 MPs: 18, against 3, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u149	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u150	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u151	Mr. Chairman, I want a re-voting procedure because I think my colleagues just didn't understand what the proposal was, and some of them failed to vote. But getting a construction permit for some agricultural shed is just funny, colleagues. It's just funny! The proposal made by my colleague Zelenogorski is extremely practical, and I therefore ask you to reconsider the position, to support this proposal, because we are really driving people with such permits to some elementary things. To repair some farm shed and get a building permit!? It's a mockery of people, colleagues. I really ask you to rethink this vote because we have turned people into some kind of slave to administrative measures. Literally slaves.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u152	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u153	But that's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u154	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. We are revising the proposal of the MP Nayden Zelenogorski, which is not supported by the Commission only in point. 1, 4, 6 and 9. Please vote. They voted 89 MPs: 25, against 6, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. We shall vote on the text of § 17 by importer, which shall become § 27 by version of the Commission. Please vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u155	Vote 84 MPs: 79, none, abstention 5. Paragraph 17 shall be adopted on the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u156	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18, which shall become § 28. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 29. According to § 20 there is a proposal from the MPs Dora Yankova, Kircho Karagyozov and Manol Genov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 30: 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 162 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 2. They're creating an al. 7 and 8: The lead designer is the author of the leading project part of the investment project defined by the contracting entity. (8) The lead designer shall be responsible for the mutual coordination and coordination of all parts of the investment project. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21, which shall become § 31. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 32. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23, which shall become § 33.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u157	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for paragraphs 18 and 19 which are supported by the Commission and become respectively paragraphs 28 and 29; the version of § 20 by importer, which shall become § 30 in the Commission report; and the texts of the importer for paragraphs 21, 22 and 23, which shall be supported by the Commission and in its report shall become paragraphs 31, 32 and 33. Vote 80 MPs: 79, against none, abstention 1. Paragraphs 28 to 33 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u158	According to § 24 there is a proposal from the MPs Dora Yankova, Kircho Karagyozov and Manol Genov. The Commission does not support the proposal: The following additions shall be made in § 24: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4, at the end of the sentence second of the new content of para. Article 6 169 a comma shall be placed and the expression (s) at the end of each calendar year shall be added and a statement of their implementation shall be drawn up. 2. A t is created. 5. It's five o'clock. The creation of para. 7. The Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria provides annually for funds for the implementation of the programmes under para. 6................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 34.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u159	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal by the MPs Dora Yankova, Kircho Karagyozov and Manol Genov, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 84 MPs: 16 against 15, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for § 24, which is supported by the Commission and becomes § 34. We are voting § 34 on the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: 77, none, abstention 3. Paragraph 34 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u160	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 35. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 36. The Commission proposes to create a new § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 177, para. 1 sentence, second words. the following points are inserted after point 11 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 27, which shall become § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 178, para. 3, p. 1 words.............................................................................. 169, para. In the case of vehicles of categories M1, M2, N2, N2, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N1 and N3, The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 28 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u161	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u162	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take the floor under § 28, which concerns the name of the head and corresponds to § 29. Here he has found the second Bill, voted at first reading and supported, whose co-owners we are with colleague Danail Kirilov, prof. Willy Lilkov, Assoc. Velikov and other colleagues, which concern the well-known and painful problem for the parking spaces. That is, finally giving legal regulation what the parking space is and what can be done with it. What we have tried to do is, in practice, for these transactions, which are happening at the moment, that is, an existing situation to obtain real and meaningful legal regulation. Colleagues, at the moment you can buy a parking space, only in your deed will not say: someone-who bought a parking space No. 6 example, but will write: someone-who bought 13.28 ideal parts of an underground garage with allocated right to use for parking space No. 7 example, which sounds quite disturbing for a person who is not a lawyer and is not inside the matter. Then people often ask themselves, after all, what did I buy air, a parking space? We offer here a firm definition to be given and to regulate the order of making deals with the parking spaces. By the way, we have received quite serious support from various branch organizations. The Commission spoke positively from both the Chamber of Builders and the Notary Chamber, and there were other positive statements. The problem is long ago, the problem is hurt and so far remains unresolved. The last thing I would like to share with you and call you for support, as mainly colleagues from GERB abstained in the Commission the main motive at the time was that there was no opinion of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works on the issue. I have tried and taken this opportunity to thank the Ministry and then a Commission meeting has given me an opinion, which is positive, and I have given it to some of my colleagues. Whoever wants it and doesn't get it, I can give it to them. I'll read you just one paragraph, so I don't read all the time. The Ministry says this: The Regional Development and Public Works Department generally supports the idea of providing for legislative changes to allow for the settlement of property rights and the execution of notary deals for parking spaces. In this way, they will find legal regulation and public relations that exist at the moment. What I'm graduating with actually concerns practically the next paragraph, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u163	Twenty-nine, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u164	Yes, the 29th in which there are proposals of colleague Karagyozov from BSP left Bulgaria. I'd like to make an editorial proposal on them so I don't have to take the floor again. By § 29, I am making an editorial proposal as a new para. 4 "In practice, to give me a better regulation of what my colleague Karagyozov proposes, which worried some colleagues, namely to protect the deals with parking spaces that are located in buildings for public use. Not to be in danger, not to worry sooner that someone at a mall might sell out the parking spaces for some third purpose and practically not be used for their purpose. This is the meaning of the editorial proposal I am going to read to you. It's exactly two lines, and I'm ending it: 1-3, where they are part of a building for public use only or are established on a ground discussing only such a building, except where the transactions are carried out together with the site for which the respective parking spaces are provided for under the project. [[Passing the document to the President.]] That's it, guys. I hope I was convincing this time. There is also a positive opinion from the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u165	You are making a proposal on another proposal which is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u166	The editorial proposal is actually going to the next one. § 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u167	Yes, § 29 "We have not reached it, but you are making a proposal on a proposal rejected by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u168	Both are not supported by the Commission. I appeal to support them, to make this editorial proposal as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u169	Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the text of the importer for § 25, which becomes § 35 in the Commission report; § 26, which becomes § 36 in the Commission report, the Commission's proposal to create a new § 37 with its corresponding content in the Commission report; the version of the Commission for § 27 by importer, which after that amendment becomes § 38 in the Commission report, and the Commission's proposal to reject § 28 by importer. Please vote. 90 MPs voted: 86, none, abstention 4. Paragraphs 35, 36, 37, 38 and the rejection of Paragraph 28 by importer have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u170	Under § 29, there is a proposal from Kircho Karagyozov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 180a is created. 4 and 5. In the case of an individual property, the property shall be located in a building or in a regulated plot of land, private, municipal or state property where the parking spaces are provided for the maintenance of the building or the regulated land property, according to the regulations in force. Transactions with such objects are only eligible as an integral part of the transaction for a specific object of the main purpose of the building for which they are legally provided. (5) Ordering transactions for independent sites may be carried out only if these parking spaces are explicitly intended not to be reserved for public use. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 29 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u171	Are there any statements beyond what Mr. Slavov commented? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal by Kircho Karagyozov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 85 MPs: 11 against 7, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. There is also no way to put to the vote the editorial proposed by Mr. Slavov, as the proposal itself has been rejected. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal § 29 to be rejected. Vote 88 MPs: 65 against 19, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u172	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u173	Here you are, Mr. Slavov, for revoting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u174	Colleagues, I have asked for a re-vote because it seems to me that some of my colleagues could not understand if they wanted to support the proposal, i.e. to regulate the parking spaces, should vote against it, because the Commission, given that most of its colleagues abstained, is practically not in favour of the proposal. That is, if you really want to support the arrangement, you must vote against the Commission's proposal and not for the Commission's proposal, as I think some have been misled.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u175	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u176	Just one sentence, if I may, Mr. Chairman. For the editorial proposal, it was proposed on its own. If it is accepted now to remain the text of the importer, then I ask you to put it to the vote, not as an editorial of my colleague Karagyozov, but as an editorial of the main text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u177	I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to dismiss § 29. It's a re-vote. Vote 89 MPs: 66, against 20, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u178	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 39. The Commission proposes to create a new § 40: ..... 40................... 40...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 195 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. 1 the words the essential requirements under art. Art. 169, para. 1 " 3" shall be replaced by the requirements of art. 169, para. One and three. 2. In para. 5 after the words "Agricultural" and "other sites" are added art. 151, para. 1 and a comma. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 41. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 32, which shall become § 42: § 42. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 215 the following amendments shall be made: "1." In para. 5 words................................................................................. 216, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of 2. Paragraph 7 is amended as follows: The decisions of the Court of First Instance on complaints or protests against the individual administrative acts approving detailed development plans, complex projects for investment initiative and to authorise the construction of sites of national importance and municipal sites of paramount importance are final. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33, which shall become § 43. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 44. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 45. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 36, which shall become § 46: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 224, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 the words the essential requirements for the construction works and the building works are deleted, and the words the essential requirements for the constructions under art. 169, ) (a.k.a. 1, 2 and 3 and shall be replaced by the requirements required for the construction under art. 169, ) (a.k.a. One and three. 2. A t is created. 8. It's 8 o'clock. without the contracting authority's own supervision in cases where such is compulsory. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 47.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u179	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 39 in the Commission report, the Commission proposal to create a new § 40 with its corresponding text on the Commission report, the text of the importer for § 31, which shall, after support from the same, become § 41 in its report, the version of § 32 by importer, by the Commission, which shall become § 42 in the Commission report, the text of the importer for § 33, which shall be § 43 after support from the Commission in its report, the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 44 after support from the Commission in its report, the text of the importer for § 35 which shall be § 45, after supporting the text of the importer, for § 36 after the Commission shall be § 46 and the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 47 after support from the Commission. Please vote on the proposed paragraphs on the Commission report as presented to you by the MP Irena Kotseva from the parliamentary platform. They voted 86 MPs: 82, against 1, abstention 3. Paragraphs 39 to 47 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u180	According to § 38 the proposal from the National Representative Kostadin Markov. The Commission does not support the proposal to be rejected...................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 48.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u181	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Markov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u182	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! If, in this text, we accept the Commission's proposal, we prohibit the mayors from designing for their own good. What does that mean? "The staff of the specialized administration of municipalities shall not be able to draw up elementary technical projects, i.e. to exercise their profession and their activities in relation to being appointed to the relevant administration. The text is proposed under the pressure of the design lobbys, which think that in the designers are hiding a lot of big projects. If we accept the text this way, we are actually blocking the work of mayors on a number of European projects and on a bunch of other smaller things. The other day, for example, I met a mayor who said, "Okay! I now, in order to make a toilet for the retirement club, have to make an order for this order to appear a bunch of companies, respectively to pay them and then have a toilet for the retirement club. One European project, when the project is not complete and they are pursuing deadlines, and when your person from the administration can formally draw up some small project with which to speed up the project, he will still not be able to do so. The mayor will have to issue a public procurement contract with which to select the designer concerned and thus result in delays in time limits, penalties on the project concerned, etc. It is an extremely important text, and I think that the mayors, when they sense it, will scream and there will be changes in this text, so I suggest that we correct it right now so that further partial amendments will not be made to this bill again. By accepting the Commission's proposal, by the way, in the Commission, the votes were seven to seven, and I do not think that colleagues even understood very much what we are voting for by supporting the Commission's proposal, tying the mayors' hands to very important things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u183	Thank you, dear Mr. Markov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev. Do you have a line or a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u184	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u185	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u186	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Markov! I agree with what you said and we should not support this Bill, but you forgot, you missed something very important that we actually increase the costs of municipalities, because when they do not use their own employees, they will have to hire private companies for this, and most municipalities, by removing the big ones, cannot afford this thing, and therefore I do not think we should accept this text and it should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u187	Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Markov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u188	Colleague, you reminded me of something extremely important when municipal employees design, no additional public resources are paid to them. If you are going to make a public procurement, this resource must have been allocated in advance to the capital programme, the municipal council will have approved it to you and when the middle of the year you need to redesign, you have no move, you wait for the next budget year or an update of the budget, so the hands of the mayors are tied. I therefore appeal once again not to support the Commission's proposal, but the text that I propose, which is simply to reject the importer's proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u189	Thank you, dear Mr. Markov. To speak, the public representative Dimitar Bajraktarov, then the public representative Manol Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We will support the proposal made by colleague Kostadin Markov, because this is indeed one of the few proposals that make the Law work. In order not to waste time, I see that colleagues already understand that they need to support this proposal by colleague Markov, I will only say that if it is not supported, this means that we are introducing a practically restrictive norm to prevent officials from fulfilling their duties. I hope that you have understood the right thing is Markov's proposal, and let's stop talking then and move on to the vote. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u191	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u192	Dear Mr. Chairman! Knowing that we should not be exactly in the form of a line, but in order to save time, I think that the proposal of colleague Markov is really reasonable and we should support it. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u193	Mr. Genov, will you speak? You have the floor, Mr. Genov. [[Relations, calls from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u194	I'll be extremely brief because I've received assurances... [[Replication of the MP Irena Kotseva away from the microphones.]] The tennis is played with paddles, Mrs. Kotseva, usually... [[Radio, laughter.]] Since I have received assurance here from colleagues from GERB, I will be as short as possible. We will support this proposal because the Commission's proposal is extremely insane! The colleague said about a toilet, and I'll say they can't make a PUP and a cemetery, because sometimes there's no place to bury people, and that's up to local authorities, so I trust your promises, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u195	Do you have any lines? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov. [[Noise and lines.]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u196	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues, let's still sit here and do our job, so we get money, not yelling. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u197	Please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u198	Please, my line is very short, clear and accurate. Mr. Manol Genov missed something that I think he should have said that in the Bulgarian Socialist Party, in its left-wing standards he has entered precisely more powers of municipalities and municipal leadership in order to be able to do their job. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] That is why we will support this proposal. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u199	Any other lines? A hole? He doesn't have an ass. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Kostadin Markov, which is not supported by the Commission, but here in the Chamber, it was understood that it is supported. Please vote. They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 1. The proposal has been adopted, which is why from now on there is a renumbering that I will be able to deal with subsequently.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u200	Paragraph 39? a proposal from Kircho Karagyozov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 232 in the words from 5000 to 20 000 BGN are replaced by 1000 to 5000 BGN The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Dora Yankova, Kircho Karagyozov and Manol Genov: The following amendments shall be made in § 39: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 232 in the words. "5000 to 20 000" shall be replaced by "2000 to 10 000." 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 232d the words The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 39, which shall become § 49: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 232c and 232d: Art. 232c. A leading designer who co-ordinates a project part which is wholly or partly incompatible with another project part shall be punished with a fine of BGN 5000 to BGN 20 000. Art. 232d. The mayor of the municipality or an official authorised by him imposes a fine of 1000 to 5000 BGN. the owner of a property that destroys or damages a control system or part of it in a landslide area or geoprotected facility or part of it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u201	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Kircho Karagyozov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 19 against 11 abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Dora Yankova, Kircho Karagyozov and Manol Genov, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 24, Against 19, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text supported in principle by the importer and edited by the Commission for § 39 by importer, which shall become § 49 in the Commission report. Vote 91 MPs: 79 against 9, abstention 3. Paragraph 49 of the Commission report has been adopted. Negative vote, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u202	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposals that I and a group of colleagues have made to reduce the size, you have not accepted, and I do not know if you have seen their content. However, I voted against the proposals that you have adopted because I believe that these are insanely high fines, which will ultimately not result in any control in any way the actions of those who will be punished, nor will we discipline them to any extent. Moreover, this will allow for a corruption scheme that will develop in the future, and you will make sure of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u203	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u204	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40, which shall become § 50. Paragraph 41? a proposal from Kircho Karagyozov and a group of MPs: In § 41, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: 2 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. The letter "s' is amended as follows: (a) point 18 is amended as follows: 18. The built-up area (SPB) is the sum of the built-up areas on all floors of the main and complementary building floor, on and above the terrain. In addition to the built-up area of the underground, semi-underground and ground floors, all built-up areas in the sub-surface area of the buildings are also included, eligible architectural elements of less than 45 degrees from the line of intersection of the facade plane with the upper surface of the cornice or arrow, as well as the entire area of the balconies, lodges and terraces. 2. A new letter (s) shall be inserted: (b) point 19 is amended as follows: "19." Intensity of building is the ratio of the sum of the built-up areas on all the ground floors to the ground floors of the main and complementary construction to the area of the regulated land property, expressed in absolute number. Intensity of construction can also be determined in general for a neighborhood, urban area or zone, as well as parts thereof. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Nayden Zelenogorski. The offer has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 41, which shall become § 51: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 1, para. 4 is finally a comma and is added to the full designer or who have the necessary internship to acquire it. 2. Paragraph 5: (a) c. 18th sentence first after the word "all', the words "overland' shall be added and the words "over the field' shall be deleted; (b) c. 64 the word "the essentials" shall be replaced by the words "the importants" and the words "the importants" shall be replaced by the words "thes." 169, para. In the case of vehicles of categories M1, M2, N2, N2, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, (c) c. 66 the word "the essentials' shall be replaced by "the's'; (d) point 83 is repealed. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 42, which shall become § 52: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction in the Area (prom., SG...) the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In § 127: (a) in para. 5 words The Directorate for National Construction Control for the implementation of the measures under art. 225s and 225s shall be replaced by the authority responsible for implementing the measures under art. 225 a.s. and 225 a.s.; (b) in para. Article 15 shall be added at the end. 225. 2. In § 149, the words Proposal from the MPs Dora Yankova, Kircho Karagyozov and Manol Genov. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal which is reflected in its systematic position in § 52. Under § 43, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 43, which shall become § 53: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the other texts of the Law, the words "the essential requirements" and "the essential requirements" shall be replaced by "the requirements" and "the basic requirements" respectively, and the words "the requirements" shall be replaced by "the requirements" respectively. 169, para. 1 and 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 169, para. In the case of vehicles of categories M1, M2, N2, N2, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, Mr. Chairman, we've made a technical mistake. Please follow the words "choul." 169, para. 1 and 2 to be deleted. 169, para. One, two, three, and the Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u205	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 40, which shall be supported by the Commission and shall become § 50. Please vote § 50 on the Commission report. Vote 92 MPs: 90, none, abstention 2. Paragraph 50 of the Commission's report has been adopted. I put to the vote a proposal from the MP Kircho Karagyozov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 94 MPs: 13 against 18, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the texts of the importer for paragraphs 41, 42 and 43 which, after the amendment, become paragraphs 51, 52 and 53 on the Commission report on the condition that the numbering will be changed because of Mr Markov's adopted proposal. Please vote on the paragraphs on the Commission proposal. Vote 97 MPs: 92, none, abstention 5. Paragraphs 51, 52 and 53 of the Commission report have been adopted. Procedure Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I propose a procedure for extending today's meeting until the adoption of the Code of Conduct on the territory and its vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u207	Thank you. A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Stanislav Ivanov. Vote 94 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u208	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 44, which shall become § 54. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 55. Under § 46, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 46, which shall become § 56: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) The (2) An investment project approval and a construction permit shall be deemed to have been initiated for an investment project approved by the competent authority. Under § 47, the Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 47 be rejected. Under § 48, the Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become § 57. Under § 49, the Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become § 58. By § 50, the Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become § 59. Under § 51, the Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become § 60. Under § 52, the Commission does not support the text of the importer as the amendment is reflected in the current text of the Law and proposes that § 52 be rejected. A proposal from the MP Nayden Zelenogorski. The Commission does not support the proposal: screated § 53: § 53. In the Law on Cultural Heritage (Obn., SG...) in art. 84 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 a new sentence is created second: "If the Minister of Culture has not sent to the applicant a notice of refusal of coordination within the period under para. 1, this shall be considered as his consent. 2. The creation of para. 7. When coordination with the Ministry of Culture is under the conditions of para. 2 sentence 2, the silent consent shall be demonstrated by a copy of the application under para. 4 and placed on it an entry number certifying its entry into the register of the Ministry of Culture, as well as a written declaration that the applicant has not received an explicit refusal within 3 days of the expiry of the period under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Proposal from the MPs Dora Yankova, Kircho Karagyozov and Manol Genov. The offer has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-10.u209	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to adopt the name of the division of the "Transitional and final provisions', the text of the importer for § 44, which shall become § 54, the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 55, the edited text of § 46 by importer, which shall become the paragraph of a new numbering in the Commission report, the text of the importer for § 47, which shall be proposed to be rejected. The Commission also supports the wording of the importer for § 48, which becomes § 57 and the wording of § 49 by importer, of paragraphs 50, 51, which are applicable in the Commission report, the motion to reject § 52. I shall put these proposals to the vote by the Commission. Please vote on these proposals as presented to you by the Parliamentary Tribune by the National Representative Irena Kotseva. Please vote. Vote 91 MPs: 88, no objection, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted. I put to the vote a proposal made by the MP Nayden Zelenogorski, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 88 MPs: 13 against 6, abstention 69. The offer is not accepted. With this, we have done our work on this bill. It was passed in a second vote. We've decided to call off our work for today, even though we still have two minutes left. Communications of parliamentary control on 11 December 2015, Friday: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin will answer one question from MPs Mihail Mikov and Filip Popov. 2. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer a question from the MP Angel Naydenov. 3. The Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev will answer a question from the MP Boyka Marinska. Let me remind you that we have decided that parliamentary control will start tomorrow at 12:30. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the MNS, delaying responses by seven days have requested: - Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Lutvi Mestan; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova - a question with a written answer from the MP Petar Slavov; - the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev to two questions from the MPs Boyka Marinska, and Dimitar Tanev; - Minister of Agriculture and Foods Desislava Taneva to three questions from the MPs Georgi Kadiev "two questions, and Cornelia Ninova, and three questions from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski, on a question from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov; - Minister of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski to two questions from the MPs Svetoslav Belemezov; and Zhelyo Boychev. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the responses to: - seven questions and two questions from the MP Slavi Binev to the Minister of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski, to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov and to the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova. Due to illness, the Minister of Culture Vecdi Rashidov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. In the absence of the country, Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov, Minister of Health Petar Moskov and Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to a prior commitment with international participation, the parliamentary control meeting will not be attended by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov, Deputy Prime Minister of Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova and the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova. Questions three, required plenary time 27 min. Tomorrow, we continue with a second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Air Cleanliness. The Council of Ministers adopted on 23 June 2015 at the first vote on 6 October 2015. All of this will start at 9:00. I'm adjourned today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
