ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2238-U1	Dear Members, Honourable Members! The agenda of the second remote extraordinary session of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 22 April 2021 is open. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Proliferation Management” be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The second draft on the agenda is the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Disease Prevention Act” submitted by Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Lubova Švekova, Karina Sprūde, Edgars Tatars and Viktors Valaiņš. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that it be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and that it be designated as the Commission responsible. ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak about” Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2238-U2	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Well, it is clear that when planning support measures and trying to find specific groups, it is often necessary to improve this mechanism. This is how we have seen both the issue of cut-off benefits and the relationship... if we are talking about child benefits, so these 500 euros, which were paid to families, of course, also demanded a supplement for both children's orphanage and it is clear that a supplement will also be necessary if we are talking about students. Consequently, our proposal now to return to a specific debate on students under the age of 24. This proposal is consistent with the definition of a large family. Thus, multi-child family children include those who have not reached the age of 24, if they have completed general, vocational or higher education. Consequently, given that this person will be subject to these regulations, it means that... It is clear that this person is still, in the view of the parents, including a child in need of support - no less support than this EUR 500 for children who have not yet reached adulthood or who have reached the age of 21, in line with the rules on family state benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, we have prepared such a draft law with our colleagues and we call on you to support this draft law and see it in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission below, to discuss, to debate, to receive support from the Ministry of Welfare, which could actually be said to have already been received. If we see various votes in the Saeima, then we understand that you would be willing to support such a proposal. This is our next proposal to support students, support parents who are dependent on students under the age of 24. Please vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2238-U3	Thank you. So no one has applied for a 'no', but a vote has been requested, but because Members are now... Mrs Stepanenko has also spoken about, so we... Please call me! We are voting in favour of handing over to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 33, for - 38, for - 10. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. Agenda of the next meeting – Examination of draft legislation Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Equity Shares and Corporate Governance”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Krišjānis Feldmans. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2238-U4	Hello, colleagues! The First Reading Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy of the Saeima has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Management of Shares and Companies of Public Persons” (No. 979/Lp13). It is necessary to state that the draft law is intended to ensure compliance with the requirements of paragraph 60 of the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers on Increase of the Equity Capital of the State Joint Stock Company “Riga International Airport” and of the Communication of the European Commission on Temporary Framework for State aid measures in support of the economy in the current situation of the Covid-19 outbreak. In addition to covering all the changes necessary to comply with the requirements of the temporary regulation, as well as taking into account the applicability of the temporary regulation to all public limited liability companies, which may potentially be beneficiaries of specific State aid, and taking into account the changes to the Commercial Law, which entered into force at the beginning of this year, the draft law also provides for other amendments, in line with the version in force of the Commercial Law, while respecting the specific nature of the activities of public limited liability companies. The Commission is asking for this draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2238-U5	Thank you. So, first of all, we must vote in favour of declaring the draft law urgent. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Equity Shares and Corporate Governance” as urgent! Please, let's vote! To - 66, to - no, to - 4. Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2238-U6	Please also support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2238-U7	Thank you. Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Equity Shares and Corporate Governance”! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Please set the deadline for the second reading of the proposals and the time for the second, final and final reading of the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2238-U8	The deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading of the draft law shall be 29 April, the second, final, reading of which shall take place at the sitting of the Saeima on 6 May of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2238-U9	Thank you. There are therefore no other proposals received to the Bureau. The deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading is set for 29 April of this year, and for the sitting of the Saeima - for 6 May of this year. Dear Members, Honourable Members! We have therefore examined the agenda for the second remote emergency session on 22 April. I would like to inform you and remind you that in 15 minutes' time, i.e. 11.30, we will continue to examine the agenda of the first remote emergency session on 22 April. Only registration of the presence of Members. And I closed this second extraordinary session on April 22. Thank you.
