ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2311-U1	Dear colleagues, On 28 October 2021, the Saeima opened its second remote emergency session. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Proliferation Management” be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs. Do Members have objections? Members have requested a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 65, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda, under the heading ‘Conclusion of the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust’. Members Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Anda Čakša, Ainars Latkovskis, Andrejs Judins, Kārlis Šadurskis, Arvils Aseradens, Atis Lejiņš, Juris Rancāns, Maris Kučinskis and Inese Voika have submitted a draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Ata Leieniņš from the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit. Please call me! Let us vote on the draft decision! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Members Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Anda Čakša, Ainars Latkovskis, Andrejs Judins, Kārlis Šadurskis, Arvils Aseradens, Atis Lejiņš, Juris Rancāns, Maris Kučinskis and Inese Voika have submitted a draft decision on the election of Member Ata Leieniņš to the European Affairs Commission. Please call me! Let us vote on the draft decision! Please, let's vote! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Members Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Anda Čakša, Ainars Latkovskis, Andrejs Judins, Kārlis Šadurskis, Arvils Aseradens, Atis Lejiņš, Juris Rancāns, Maris Kučinskis and Inese Voika have submitted a draft decision “On the election of Member Kārlis Šadurskis to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit”. Please call me! Let us vote on the draft decision! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - under the heading ‘Handling draft laws’. Draft law ‘Amendments to criminal law’, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juris Jurash. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2311-U2	Hello, colleagues! At its meeting on 26 October this year, the Legal Commission examined draft law “Amendments to Criminal Law” (No. 1211/Lp13) before first reading. The draft law provides for the addition of a new Article 140.1 of the Criminal Law on the acquisition and use of a false interoperable certificate. The amendment provides for further regulation of the existing rules on the purchase of a false interoperability vaccination, testing or flaking certificate, as well as the use of an interoperable vaccination, testing or flaking certificate issued to another person, provided that the user has not itself been vaccinated. The Regulation also exempts a person from criminal liability if he or she has voluntarily declared that he or she has obtained a false certificate of vaccination, testing or congestion. It is also planned to amend the sanction of Section 326.3 first paragraph of the Criminal Law by increasing it and establishing that a person may be punished by deprivation of liberty for a period of up to one year for offering or transferring the benefit of a material, property or other nature personally or with an intermediary to an employee of a state or municipal institution who is not a public official or a state institution authorised by the same person, for the purpose of performing any illegal act, exercising his powers, regardless of whether the benefit of the material, property or other nature is intended for that or any other person. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I ask that the draft law on Amendments to the Criminal Law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2311-U3	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on "Amendments to the Criminal Law". Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline... Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2311-U4	Hello, colleagues! I therefore refer to the wording proposed in the Criminal Law on Counterfeit Certificates and so on. I think that this formulation is, by its very nature, illiterate, legally illiterate, and that is a very simple reason. So, by its very nature, a certificate can only be forged if we have seen a few days ago, when an interoperable certificate was issued in Poland on the name of Adolf Hitler. So it was either... a broken computer program and this type of certificate was created. Then it is a certificate forgery. In all other cases, the certificate itself is genuine and not forged as it is issued by the State. No person - a waxer or an anti-vaccine, whether vaccinated or not, crushed or diseased - will issue a certificate, so it is not possible to decontaminate it either. It can only be disappointed by the state if... the national official issuing their certificate. Consequently, from this point of view, it is a huge problem, a legal problem, an illustrious problem in the way the law is presented. The other thing. I think that these amendments to the criminal law are by nature pointless. They are pointless for one single reason, namely the fact of proof. It is not possible to prove it even if someone is injected into the left or right shoulder in the first Latvian Television Channel before or after “Panoramas” or “Panoramas”... It is not possible to tell and prove what has been injected there - a vaccine against the cord or a vaccine against anything else, or simply a physiological solution. It is not possible to say that. It is only possible to say this in one case, and also the question whether it is the legal proof that has been completed when the people themselves, who have carried out these actions, say: yes, I do this. But the fact that a person has said something himself does not mean that he has declared the truth, and it must be proved by other means of proof. Consequently, from this point of view, such amendments are legally pointless. Of course, they can be introduced, but remember once again - so the essence of the amendments is to talk about false certificates, but people who, for example, have not really vaccinated and receive a certificate, do not have that certificate. The certificate is valid. The fact of vaccination may not be true. A vaccination may or may not have occurred, but it may not be a certificate. That's another thing. And the last thing that's most important if we're looking more widely. I think that the nature of certificates as such, the nature of these green certificates... in the future, we will come to a situation where there will be people who will be called to account for the creation of such certificates, because such certificates by their very nature violate any human rights. Sorting and dividing people into vaccinated and non-vaccinated, vaccinated and non-diseased... and in that spirit... is an absolute violation of human rights. In today's context, when statistics already show clearly that vaccinated people are becoming more ill, more and more vaccinated people are entering hospitals too (in some cases, statistically fewer than unvaccinated people, but more)... clearly and unambiguously demonstrate that such division does not make any sense. It has only legal meaning, a legally harmful role - to divide society, to promote segregation, to violate human rights... and in that spirit... to interfere in the private life of a person, to disclose personal personal data, to force a person to undergo medical manipulation, for which no one is responsible, and so on. Extortion has failed to achieve the desired result in an unparalleled society. If we want to reduce mortality in Latvia, we need not to steal 500 million money for the community's patients and not to scare people with criminal proceedings, and not to be in a country where the most people are punished, but to invest these 500 million in the treatment of the community's disease, to develop primary health care systems, to involve more family doctors, to renew the “Linezer” in the end, in which the number of beds has historically been envisaged for 14 thousand people, if we look at the East Hospital website and read about the history of the hospital “Linezers”. At present, this hospital has been put at the disposal of the dancer, Mr. Pabriks, and for two years nothing has been done in order to accommodate the population. The city of Riga has been involved in the movement of brakes and cycling, but not Riga 1st hospital, nor Riga 2nd hospital until this day has been properly involved in health care. And then we think that the solution to the improvement of our healthcare system will be the following amendments, which are simply pointless from a legal point of view. Our country goes totalitarian... in a mode where the punishment elements... that the police, in fact, instead of detecting crimes, real crimes... real murders, real robberys and other real crimes, end up real, corrupt crimes... The police have to do with normal restraining of the population, imposing penalties on those who go to protest, even though it is only democratic throughout the world that people have the right to protest. Fearing with huge penalties and so on... I call on Members of the Saeima... It is clear that this will move forward, but I am asking you to listen to what I am saying and to place emphasis, however, on these statistical figures, which I read on investing in the treatment of patients in the community - EUR 500 million over two years has been invested as if in the treatment of patients in the community - precisely the treatment of patients in the community! For 500 million euros, we have actually created around 100 graves of new beds, and we have a collapse in the healthcare system. By the way, this week I had a conversation with the management of a hospital - the management of a major Riga hospital. I asked a direct question, and this question was: 'How much extra money should be needed to have everything more or less in order for us not to have a German level but to have everything right?' The answer was: “About 300 million.” We have borrowed four billion, we will borrow a few million more this year, but these 300 million that solve the problem have not been found, they will be stolen again. We are trying, with such demonstrational, non-speaking, bureaucratic things as punishment, humiliation, discrimination, and discrimination, to solve the problem that should be dealt with in the nature of helping the healthcare sector - both material assistance and assistance... simply not stealing this sector. If this were to happen within these two years, we would not need such an amendment to the Criminal Law. Our society would also unite and help the power to deal with the communion pandemic, but when the public sees that the whole summer... this summer, last summer... We've been here since Viņķelis... We have champions all the time and what's not yet, Karin with his many money - the champion and the like... It's all the champions. And everyone else is guilty, but not himself. The health care system down to the clinic, the police down to the clinic... We can go to any police station to see how people are living there. All things are down to the clinic, but everyone else is guilty, and the amendments to the Criminal Law are going to take place, then the sunny future will come to an end, and the entire pandemic will come to an end. It doesn't happen, does it, men? This is a direction that you're afraid of again, like... as soon as the Saeima considers that all 100 members of the Saeima must be vaccinated because those who have vaccinated fear that they will become ill. Then what a point of that vaccine, if you're afraid, dear colleagues! Why do we even work remotely? Why don't we work here if all this helps, if all this makes us immortal, healthy, and so on? Perhaps we should come on the other side and start asking critical questions about topics that are critical to society as a whole (Not to be heard). ... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2311-U5	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue the debate after a break. The registration of Members' presence is over. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2311-U6	Dear Members, Honourable Members! We shall continue the examination of the agenda of the second remote extraordinary sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 28 October 2021 after a break. On the agenda - examination of the draft law on amendments to the Criminal Law, first reading. A debate was opened before the break. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2311-U7	Dear colleagues, A wise thinker has once said that mankind needs shocks and trials from time to time so that every stage of human development, however, can move forward in order not to be complacent, not to start a culture of consumption, and not to degrade people. Yes, apparently he is right to see the shocks our ancestors have passed through. And we see that those who have survived these difficult times have, however, remained at a very high level of intelligence and understanding of human rights. But maybe this is not always the case - as we see how we would have thought. Such trials, in which we are now as well as other trials that our humanity has passed through, irritates human instincts, feelings, and feelings, and of course everything... A variety of miracles come out of the deepest depths. They are different for every man. One thing, however, appears... Those who may have laughed at the rule of law and justice in the past are now looking for a way of defending their rights, which they were convinced would always be attributed to people. Secondly, those who called a year ago that we needed to prevent discrimination, that we should be equal, are talking quite differently at the moment. They say that we will never live in the society we have lived up to now, that we will always have this new system of certificates, that people will be divided and ultimately forced on their knees to submit to this new system. Yes, we really live in a very difficult and unusual time. We see the manifestations of these people, and what we see in this draft law is that some people are, unfortunately, trying to build the system over the already existing system in which we have so far lived. They're trying to build a system that has once been built by such people... or non-humans, whose words we would like to forget, but their names are necessary in history books so that we, our children, always remember how deranged a system can be created if power gets into evil hands if power goes into such hands... in the hands of people who are cowardly, cowardly and lowly. We see that very large errors are, of course, in this new system... because we can't really... cannot build something so terrible on the existing legal system that our decision-makers, who are in the majority, are trying to build at the moment. We're talking about people-sharing, about a system of certificates that... We very much hope... We are convinced that it will soon prove that this system is illegal. We can see that these are people who are so much at the moment, very impressed by the construction of a new system... they can't stop, they can't stop, and they won't stop, because if they stop, they'll be fined for what they intend to do to people. Therefore, if we see these amendments now, which seem to punish the fact that people have presented the certificates they have obtained unduly, the question is: for what purpose have they done so? Of course, the answer... And the Members here who were at the sitting of the Legal Commission have also responded clearly and clearly that these people are not using certificates to enable them to work. So you, colleagues, have created a system that does not restrict rights, but takes away rights. You want to take away - and you've already taken away! - the right of those citizens of Latvia who have so far worked in good faith to feed their family and paid taxes. You are currently denying them this opportunity at all, not limiting it. No, it's not a restriction of rights, it's a disqualification! The fact that you are trying to have some smart excuse with the common good, with some mystical general state of health of the public, of course shows that you do not have any arguments and this legal system, the new system that you are trying to build, is actually built on dogmas and assumptions. But if you, colleagues, really think that in this way, by limiting and denying the rights of people, you can punish even more people for trying to survive, then you are likely to be punished one day for introducing such laws. Just think: you are making people break the law so that they can feed their family. But refugees who break across the Belarus-Latvia border, many of you have... It really seems that they have more rights than those people - your neighbours, even your friends - who have been deprived of those rights. Think about it. By creating such an inequality system, you have even imagined that those people who will present a foreign certificate but will be vaccinated... but they will simply, as Mr. Judin said, have a mobile phone run out - they will have no responsibility, even though it is a violation, as Mr. Judin admitted. But those people, those monsters who will carry the infection further, as well as the draft law-makers, those who will show this unwarranted certificate will have to be punished by the most harsh laws. It is only comforting that those people who are currently trying to build this new system are not so good lawyers that they can do it professionally. It is perhaps not just their level of knowledge, but it is more that this evil that they create cannot be built on the existing system. It simply does not stick together: this system is created by those people whose words are similar to those of people whom we would like to forget in history books. Therefore, my fellow Members, I will call on you today to vote 'no'. I know that I will be in an absolute minority, but I will never support further development of criminal law and criminal law. This law and the penalty for infringing this law are absolutely illegal, because if one day you pass a law that will further violate human rights, I say to you... You don't have to look too far, open the history books... then shall ye also establish a criminal penalty for the transgression of this law, and ye shall go on not to stop. That's why... I do understand that you will not stop, but I call you to think that one day you may stand before the law, before the judgment. I will submit proposals to this draft law that those officials who adopt unlawful laws should stand before the law one day before the court. I will vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2311-U8	We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2311-U9	Hello, colleagues! Before I started talking about criminal law and amendments, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today there was a media publication that 64 people died of the community yesterday. I think that would not happen if we did not have such great opposition to vaccination processes if people did not question self-evident things - then those people could live, but unfortunately we have some politicians who simply play political games. But on the criminal law, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that basically we do not come up with any new norms. Even now, Article 275 of the Criminal Law provides for liability for the counterfeiting of a document and for the disposal and use of a false document. It is the responsibility, but do you really have to wait for someone to start using the document? Is it really necessary to wait for him to get two fake pots and then present a false certificate? That is not right. Of course, lawyers understand that there is an opportunity to be brought to justice for the preparation of a crime, for an attempt to do so, such processes exist. We have rules and we have criminal proceedings. The question is, would it not be wise to make it easier for law enforcement authorities to work... the possibility to work because their capacity is also limited. The aim of the amendments is, in essence, not to think of something new, rather than to restrict... we are talking about counterfeiting the document. The certificate is a document, and if someone counterfeits it, he must be responsible for it. Not only because it is a threat to public administration, but because it is a threat to human life and health. We offer to determine the responsibility for the certificate... was written “buying”, but during the discussion we realized that it would be better and better to talk about “buying”. It is understandable that by obtaining this document, people want to use it, and by using it they threaten the health and life of themselves and others. That is why we decided to improve the existing framework. A discussion took place within the Legal Commission and various opinions were expressed. Overall, there is support, but for the second reading we will definitely make clarifications. Perhaps they will be verses with other numbers, but the idea as such will remain and will be preserved, that is, if someone has acquired a forgery, if he uses it, if someone is realizing it, then now and in the future... there is and will be foreseen responsibility for this. In connection with what I have heard today, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that there is no reason... the incorrect information was simply provided. I understand that experts will not take it seriously, but yet if they say it from our platform, it is important to draw attention to the fact that counterfeiting can be both physical and intellectual. If someone thinks that if a certificate is obtained with a fake, but issued officially, then everything is fine, he makes a huge mistake. If a certificate has been issued by counterfeiting information, knowing that a person has not been vaccinated, it is a forgery, and now and for the future, liability will be assumed for dealing with such a false document. Colleagues, I call for support for this draft law. We will continue to work and we will discuss the proposals presented next week in the sub-committee. The Legal Commission will also have a discussion, but this issue is very important, it is not just about making the law more beautiful, it is about threatening human lives. I would very much like to hope that today too, when it comes to this issue... Some people may hear and, if they were perhaps going to do something like that - so buy a forgery - maybe it would hold them back and think about the real vaccination that can help them survive. I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2311-U10	Thank you. The debate is closed. Please call me! Mr. Jurash, would you like to add something on behalf of the Commission? I'm sorry, I didn't give you a name.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2311-U11	Yes, on behalf of the Legal Commission, I wanted to mention the fact that, at the sitting of the Legal Commission, when this draft law was discussed, there was a rather broad but constructive debate, and this sitting made a number of rational, constructive suggestions as to how this draft law could be improved, so the Legal Commission also calls on all those who wish to participate constructively in the development of this draft law to do so. At the Commission meeting, it was recognised that yes, of course, it is important for this existing regulation to be improved, and it is clear that the aim of this draft law is not only to bring to justice those who illegally acquire these certificates, but to a large extent this regulation would also have a preventive role: to prevent people who have the desire to obtain false certificates... to a large extent, therefore, it aims, however, to protect these people from serious consequences, while, of course, respecting the risks to public health as a whole. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for this draft law to be supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2311-U12	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on criminal law. Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading and the day of the Saeima sitting for the second, final, reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2311-U13	On behalf of the Legal Commission, please set the deadline for the second reading at 1 November of this year and consider the draft law at second reading at the sitting of the Saeima on 11 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2311-U14	So there are no other proposals. Deadline for the submission of proposals - 1 November at 14.00, consideration - 11 November of the Saeima. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined the whole agenda of today's second remote emergency session. I would also like to inform you about the Members' questions that have been received. The question to the Minister of Health, Daniel Pavlutas, “Request to the parliamentary question No. 291/J13 on additional information to be provided in relation to Covid-19 statistics.’ The question will be referred to the Minister for Health, Mr Pavlut. Members Sprūde, Gobzem, Možvillo, Valainis, Stepanenko, Krapāne, Tavars, Švecova, Nemiro and Petraviča have submitted a question to the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavlutas, about Covid-19 statistics. The question will be referred to the Minister for Health for a reply. Members Zarins, Rubiks, Tutins, Lochmele, Niconovs, Pimenovs and Kucins have submitted a question to the Minister of Health Daniels Pavļuts “In connection with the public indignation expressed by the Latvian Association of Physicians about the non-professional approach of the Minister of Health Daniels Pavļuts and the Non-professional approach of the Ministry of Health to the Covid-19 crisis and the government and Ministry of Health's erroneous and timely decisions, and before the launch of the mobilisation, no targeted resource planning and no plan was made about where they will then be sent.” The issue will be referred to health professionals’. The question will be referred to the Minister for Health, Mr Pavlut, for a reply. Members Zarins, Rubiks, Tutins, Kucins and Pimenovs have submitted a question to Prime Minister Artur Krišjānis Kariņš “On the validity and relevance of your government’s actions in relation to mobilising the healthcare sector against the consequences of Covid-19 infection”. The question will be referred to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš for a reply. Members Zarins, Rubiks, Tutins, Niconovs, Pimenovs and Kucins have submitted a question to the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavļutas, about the published vaccination statistics. The question will be referred to the Minister for a reply. Members Stepanenko, Možvillo, Sprūde, Švecova and Petraviča have submitted a question to the Minister for Health Daniel Pavļutas “On demand for mobilisation, hospital workload and support for health care workers”. The question will be referred to the Minister for Health, Mr Pavlut, for a reply. Colleagues, before concluding this sitting, I would like to inform you that the commissions have completed their work on draft laws and have decided that these draft laws should be dealt with in a remote emergency sitting of the Saeima today. Consequently, following the close of this sitting, the Saeima Bureau will decide to convene a new remote emergency sitting today. Please follow the information, you will be informed about it by texting. So please be close and follow the information. Only registration of the presence of Members. It's been a success. I'm closing the sitting. See you soon!
