ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The first item is the reports by the Saeima Bureau. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Procurement of Public Service Providers” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Investment Administration Companies” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and Their Managers” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Railway Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima's Presidium proposes that the Member Jura Jušas, Krišjānis Feldmana, Anita Muižniece, Gata Eglīša, Māra Možvillo, Aivars Gaidāns, Ieva Krapāne, Janina Kursītes, Edgars Kronberga, Normunds Gunna, Ulda Budriķa, Reinis Znotiņa, Evita Zaļīte-Grosa, Jānis Butāna, Jānis Cielēna, Sanda Riekstiņa, Eva Mārtuža, Dagmars Beitneres-Le Galla, Linda Medne and Juris Rancāns be referred to the National, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the responsible commission. the Regional Policy Commission, to be designated as the Commission responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Juris Jušaks. Please! Please open section... Please log in. Name to Member Juris Jušas. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U2	Good morning, colleagues! The Ministry of Health has already recognised several years ago that a person who is addicted to gambling will not be isolated in the gambling process, but is closely related to the addiction processes caused by the use of substances (smoking, alcohol and drug use). Consequently, imposing restrictions on the availability of alcohol in gambling sites would reduce the likelihood that a number of addictions - both process and substance dependence - could develop at the same time, as well as greater control over the current situation and decision-making. The aim of the draft law is to ensure that prohibiting the sale of alcohol on the premises of gambling medicinal products would undermine individuals' willingness to engage in gambling. On the part of the gambling industry, it has been heard that gambling is just entertainment, but even for a large part... if we can generally consider gambling as entertainment, then... A large part of the discharges are currently banned from drinking alcohol. Prohibition of alcohol consumption in gaming halls would contribute to the ability of gambling players to maintain control of ongoing and reduced risks of over-exploitation, and to the risks of gambling. The number of offences in and around the gaming halls would also be reduced. It is under the influence of alcohol in the places where gambling is organised and in their immediate vicinity that various offences take place. Alcohol and gambling - this is a socially dangerous combination, there is no doubt about it, so it is our duty not to allow dependent people to use one weakness in addition to another. There's no room for alcohol in the gaming halls! Given that both this submitted draft law and the next draft law that we have on the agenda, namely the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Gambling and Gaming’, are inter-related and require urgent and operational action, I call for this draft law, as well as the next one, to be referred to the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U3	Members have requested a vote. Let us first vote on the proposal to hand over this draft law to Law... only to the Legal Commission, determining that it is the Commission responsible. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Legal Commission the draft law on the movement of alcoholic beverages tabled by Members, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 40, for - 14, for - 18. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks” has been submitted to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. The Saeima's Presidium proposes that the Member Jura Jušas, Krišjānis Feldman, Anita Muižniece, Gata Eglišs, Māra Možvillo, Aivars Gaidāns, Ieva Krapāne, Janina Kursītes, Edgars Kronbergs, Normunds Gunna, Ulda Budriķis, Reinis Znotiņa, Evita Zaļīte-Gross, Jānis Butāna, Jānis Cielēna, Sanda Riekstiņa, Eva Mārtuža, Dagmars Beitneres-Le Gallas, Linda Medne and Juris Rancāns be referred to the Budget and Financial (tax) Commission for the draft law “Amendments to the Azartgam and Financial (Tax) Act” submitted by the Member. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Juris Jušaks. Please log in. Name to Member Juris Jušas. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U4	Colleagues! No one is a secret that in Latvia about 80,000 people suffer from gambling addiction in different degrees, of which more than 15 thousand suffer from this problem at the most severe level. They are not just numbers or entries in Excel tables, they are fathers of children, mothers, brothers and sisters - they are our, Latvian, people. We can see how much of this type of addiction is caused by many families in Latvia. For years we've been trying to... to convince Members that it is important to reduce the availability of gambling medicines. Here is a specific draft law, which represents a small step forward in building a healthy society. During this time... more than ever... We know that every ban must be assessed when considering its possible impact on society as well. Playing drug... The operators of gambling believe that Latvia's budget must be dealt with by millions of gaming industry that are collected in levies, but to base the budget on the disasters of our own people - it is a shame to the country! Has anyone calculated how much the country and the municipalities lose because the people dependent on gambling, hundreds and thousands, destroy their lives, destroy their families, bring them into poverty even more? It is absolutely clear that the many millions of gambling addicts play in gambling hells are now entering the insatiable appetite of the occupied gambling industry, or the pockets of some meagre people, instead of being used wisely and meaningfully by people to channel their small income and savings to their families. Playing hell in Latvia is like a disease that makes someone rich, so many believe it doesn't need to be restricted. There is also a pandemic, when certain personalities spread false news about Covid-19 to mislead the public. Why are many so indifferent to the fact that gambling destroys families, destroys the country and people? Is the contributions of sponsors from individual parties so important that the Member becomes a puppet: unable to make the decisions so much needed for healthy and happy families and a strong state? At least in the community... Members had this enlightenment, and the hell of the game was closed. What did the people of our country lose with the closure and the strict restriction of these potions? Can anyone call one positive thing that is brought with you and offered to the public gambling? It just doesn't exist, and you know it's all right. This is similar to that of drug trafficking and use: the only beneficiary is the trader, but the rest of society is losing; people are being lost, families are being destroyed, thousands and thousands are being brought into distress. The situation with regard to the consequences of gambling is critical. It is seen and understood by every thoughtful person. Together, we need to show them the place, we need to limit the madness of gaming halls and put them in tight frames. Colleagues, on behalf of the future of our country, must put an end to public poisoning, so please also this draft law... supporting the transfer to the Legal Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U5	“Pret” has applied to speak to Member Nikolai Cabanov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U6	Hello! Dear President, Dear colleagues, In fact, I am not at all 'no', I support public health, but I would like to remind the honourable applicant that the gambling industry did not work in Latvia last year and did not actually work since the state of emergency was declared. We don't have now either players or casinos, everything is hard. Why do the applicants activate their policies in this area? I would like to remind the initiators - the KPV LV Group and the New Conservative Group - that the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice are also in their zone of influence - two force structures that need to be provided for the security and home affairs of Latvia... order. But what happens in the capital of Latvia on the streets? Regrettably, murders, cruel shootings, thefts, and the burning of cars are taking place. All this happens in the largest area of Riga - Purvciems, where my family also lives. I can conclude that, unfortunately, the Ministry of the Interior, with its 400 million budget, is not dealing with crime and better police... we have to punish people for shashing parties and fight with Russian journalists or otherwise, say, turn to ordinary people rather than to fight dangerous criminals when... The Minister for the Interior is pitifully calling for video-recorders to show... They don't have enough 400 million budgets, they need us to show them the video recorders. Unfortunately, it seems to me that the applicants want to distract from the failure of the members of the government to fulfil their powers, to organise the activities of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice in such a way as to rule out the possibility of criminal elements breaking down here in Latvia during the pandemic, and I have no wish to support their initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U7	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Legal Commission the draft law tabled by Members "Amendments to the Law on Gambling and Gaming", which states that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 37, for - 12, for - 29. Draft law passed on Budget and Financial... Not passed... not passed... The Legal Commission... We will vote in favour of handing over to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission the draft laws tabled by Members, stating that they are the Commission responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 35, for - 15, for - 27. Draft law has been rejected. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the Member Ivars Zariņa, Valeria Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Ivana Klementjeva and Vladimir Nikonov's draft law "Amendments to the Law on Parliamentary Investigation Commissions" be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Member Ivars Zarins has signed up to speak for’. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U8	Good morning, everybody! I think that anyone who follows our country's political processes and tries not only to trap them, but also to understand them, has asked himself: why? Why is power in Latvia not able to make thoughtful and responsible decisions? Why can Lithuania and Estonia, but we can't? What are we stupider than Lithuanians, Estonians? Well, I mean, taken as a whole. I guess not. What makes democracy an effective instrument for public administration, and why does this not happen in Latvia? Why has Latvia been trapped for years in the trap of political irresponsibility and power peril and failure and in no way is it able to separate from it? Why? In democracy, as in the market economy, competition is the main driver. Without full political competition, that is to say, a change of power, democracy is becoming a fiction. If power change is not possible, as in Latvia, when there are only different mutations of existing power, then the principle of political responsibility does not work, because those in power can do whatever they want or do nothing at all, do not fulfill their promises - they will still remain in power. Thus, the power to subdue, to pervert, and to degrade. This has been happening in Latvia for many years. Thus, democracy is turning into a fiction. In order to revitalise the principle of political responsibility to us too, it is necessary to create preconditions, first of all instruments that work in practice for real competition between power and opposition. Our Constitutional Fathers have understood this necessity well, and therefore the foundations for such competition have already been incorporated into the Constitution by providing for a number of such instruments - these are Members' questions, they are Members' requests, and they are parliamentary committees of inquiry. But later on, with these instruments... intended... Laws... The parliamentary order roll was designed to make these instruments almost entirely useless. As a result, we have what it is. Our political system is like a dead fish, it is not swimming, it is blowing from the head. As you know, one of the instruments provided for in the Constitution, which I have already mentioned, is the parliamentary committees of inquiry. In democratic countries, it is a powerful and powerful tool that makes the power to shake, shake and answer for their work, but, as we all know, it doesn't work in Latvia, and we know why. In Latvia... The Law on Parliamentary Investigation Commissions was created so that the work of these Investigation Commissions could be turned into a full profile, namely, although the Satversme provides that the opposition can set up such an Investigation Commission, the Law has, in turn, provided for such a procedure that the position of power may include... Create... identify its head to the Commission and determine how the work of the Commission will be carried out further. As a result, we see what we usually see - absolutely pointless work by these commissions. We propose to change this law, this regulation, and to provide that the commission manager should assume the responsibilities... may be delegated only to those who have been at the initiation of the commission. It would be logical if the opposition, which is usually the owner of the investigative initiative itself, took responsibility for the outcome of this process. This, in turn, would allow the position of power not only to be the subject of this investigation but also to the evaluator of the opposition's work and to make the opposition accountable for its work. It is often said that the only meaningful result has been the Zolitude Commission of Parliamentary Investigation. I would like to remind you that it was the head of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission of the Zolitude tragedy that was entrusted to the opposition. It will be interesting to see how the existing... the current investigation commission, because if there's one of the coalitions trying to take this... whether he will try to "hook" this leading role, then in principle it will be a political body that will not just end its political career but end with dishonor. Torpedo this event, knowing what has been done... The public will certainly not forgive this. Colleagues from the coalition! Such changes to the law would also be very beneficial for you, because at the moment you have decided to be together, even if you do not agree with the actions of the partners. Whether it be the continuation and covering of an OIC, or the purchase of masks or vaccines, you are forced to support each other. On the other hand, such an instrument - an investigative commission led by the opposition - could make you clear and get rid of your unwanted colleagues. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported, for it to be passed on to the Legal Commission and for further work to be done on the changes to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U9	One Member has spoken for. No 'no' has been applied for, but a vote has been requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Legal Commission the draft law on Parliamentary Investigative Commissions tabled by Members, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 33, for - 51, for - 1. Draft law has been rejected. On the agenda, under 'On own-initiative proposals submitted'. The draft decision “On the way forward of the 11 376 collective application “On the ban on lynx hunting””. Are Members against this bill being examined at this sitting? Mr Kazinovsky, will you speak against the examination of this draft law at today's sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U10	Good morning, honourable...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U11	Mr. Kazinovsky, will you speak against?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U12	I will say 'no'.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U13	‘Pret’. Please, name to Member Andris Kazinovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U14	This application actually relates to such emotions because... I will try to put on the shelves why, however, this application should not be passed on. First. Statistical data and lynx monitoring show that lynx population in Latvia is stable, with a slight tendency to grow. This means that the existing type of lynx management is effective and does not threaten the hunting lynx population. Secondly. The lions in Latvia now have the best population status in the last hundred years. Thirdly. Bear hunts provide a stable population, excluding a rapid increase or decrease in the population, with a rapid increase in the population, which then falls rapidly as the feed base declines. Fourth. Rigidly controlled hunting provides a stable population in nature. Now it is the hunters who contribute to the monitoring of lynx and provide data for the research of lynx. Forbidding lynx hunting will lead to the completion of species research and monitoring. Hunters are part of a society that is of the most direct interest. It is interested in not hunting it illegally; it is interested in having data; it is interested in protecting these animals. By denying lynx hunts, a whole interest group will stop protecting them and monitoring them, because it is expensive. By denying hunting, we will lose unique scientific material and control over the situation. Five. Legitimate and controlled hunting as a legal instrument promotes tolerance to this species by minimising the possibility of illegality. Six times. The current system, as the lynx is hunted, is adaptive, it does not allow you to react at any time... by hunting season or by hunting limit, thereby controlling the lynx population and its impact on surrounding factors. Seventh. John Ozoliņš's study on the monitoring of lynx since 2007 is the only full long-term study in Europe and significant at global level. Eight. The genetic analysis of the hunted lynx helps to explain that the hunted lynx is Latvian, not from neighbouring countries. Nine times. When denying the hunting of one species of animals, it must be understood that it will grow rapidly. As one species grows rapidly, another falls because it is used as a feed. The base feeds for lions are bucks (including - white bucks), honey, rubles, swings. Lucis is one of the reasons for decreasing the population. It follows that the release of one animal species into self-flow contributes to the destruction of another. Rigidly controlled hunting is also an instrument for the conservation of other animal species. A rapid increase in the population of salmon can contribute to the development of diseases. I would also like to say that there is also experience. In the past, hunting was prohibited in spring. We know that the game was also carefully controlled by the hunters; the horses were sought, and the hunters were very sensitive to the bird. However, as the game bark is now no longer in the interest of hunters, there is actually complete disregard for where the grass bark takes place and the felling takes place, and there is no monitoring in fact, and the number of honeys are now falling.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U15	Mr Kazinovsky, please excuse me, but it was quite enough for you to oppose the examination of this draft decision at this sitting. And so... If at least one Member has objections to the examination of this draft decision, we have to decide whether... So we can see... include this draft decision at the next Saeima sitting. And one can talk about this in accordance with the procedure, one can talk about it, one can talk about it. Please, Members! Who would like to speak about examining this draft decision at the next sitting? Mr Gobzem, are you going to talk about it or about it?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U16	Good afternoon, everybody! I will talk about bringing this draft law forward, examining and approving.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U17	Please! Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U18	Good morning, colleagues! Good morning, the whole Latvian society! The project to ban lynx hunts is logical and understandable, and lynx hunts, I would like to say, will be banned. The hunting of lions will be prohibited, by itself at the latest in mid-October 2022, probably when the “Law and Order” party comes to power. And without discussion, it will be banned! It has to be taken into account. Why should lynx hunting be banned? I'll start with the mildest and move on to the most serious part. The least serious part is this: the logo of the party “Law and Order” is a lynx silhouette, and it is therefore absolutely clear that no hunting, lynx hunting, will be here. But, to be more serious, let us now be honest! Hunters, why don't you shoot ravens? Go and shoot those raccoon dogs, now! The only problem is that there's no value... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Not a trophy, not something too... Nothing else is right for you. You're not so interested, you're not worried about it, are you? Why are you disturbed by 200-300 lynx? Why should they be shot? If there are too many, catch them, sell them to zoos or countries with no lynx. Why should they be shot? So, if I lynx, this quite rare... very rare animals, percentage... if there is too much in Latvia, catch up alive, and there will be countries that buy them for a lot of money! Why are you shooting them? Because it's entertainment for you. That's the reason for the number one. And your reservations about having to regulate something there... I'm sorry, 250 lynx eat yours... 200,000 stylus? The only reason you want to shoot lynx is to keep you more stylus, which you want to shoot. And that's it. Lucy doesn't come home. It's very difficult to find an animal. Do not attack pets (if there is one case per day, I do not know for a hundred years, then it is counted on one or two fingers). Bear-based feed: roes. There's a lot of stylus in Latvia, enough. When there are fewer rosins, the lynx population is also decreasing, by the way. In itself, naturally. And if anyone thinks he's sent to regulate something in God's place, then it's demagogy. In fact, nature itself regulates everything without shooting. I'm not against hunting as such, but I'm against trophy hunting. When the wood has to be cut in the woods, we pay a heavy price for it - for every strain. We're letting animals shoot here for a while. In fact, we should be on every shot animal - not just on lynx, but on anyone! - to claim payment because it is a state resource. What if there was war and everything had been shot just for fun or for your refrigerator? It belongs to all of us. It doesn't belong to hunters only. And the lynx belongs to us all, those who are in Latvia. The lions are our wealth, they are an aristocratic animal, rare in Europe, and most of Europe has banned lynx hunts. It is only normal that they will also be banned in Latvia. If you are disturbed and too much, you will be able to catch and sell a zoo in another European country or put in place to have a lynx in another European country. We will earn more on it. So there's no argument to shoot lynx. There is absolutely no argument! Clean entertainment, that's it. lip hunting must be banned - the sooner, the better. At the latest, it will take place after the next Saeima elections: without discussion, the hunting of lynx in Latvia will be prohibited. You can count on it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U19	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application “On the ban on lynx hunting” of 11 376 Latvian citizens”, i.e. on its inclusion on the agenda of the next sitting of the Saeima! Please, let's vote! On - 76, against - 3, refraining from - 1. The draft decision shall be placed on the agenda of the next sitting of the Saeima. Ladies and gentlemen, we are on the agenda under the heading ‘Provisions of draft laws’. See the draft laws “Amendments to the Law on Gambling and Lots”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Rihards Kozlovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U20	Dear President, Dear colleagues, On 14 April, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Gambling and Gaming” and prepared it for second reading. A total of four proposals were received. 1. - the proposal by Member Eglitis to supplement Article 41 of the draft law by providing that the municipalities concerned shall also have the right to impose restrictions in accordance with... where gambling could not be organised. Within the Commission, the Members concerned... without a long debate, but hearing the representatives of the local authorities say that sounding is happening at the moment for these guidelines, which we have already talked about... and also, according to the Ministry of Finance, that actually... that next week, this deadline, which is due to be agreed with the local authorities accordingly, is coming to an end... That's why the committee is voting... However, this proposal was rejected by a majority.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U21	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Gatis Eglitis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U22	Thank you. Hello, colleagues! I will be talking about three of my proposals right away. So... Yeah, yesterday... I will clarify a little bit what the rapporteur said... We did not have a long debate yesterday. I think in three minutes we ran through, because we had been late by the kovid... and what the Latvian Municipal Government Union said - also unprecisely referred to... But I'll touch it quickly... a series of points. First. Yesterday, my three proposals were rejected, with a number of abstentions. So what I want to stress - let's also say, from the side of this debate: abstaining - de facto it is a 'no' vote. So that all those Members who will then talk smartly: "Yes, I wanted to stay there as though in the middle, I'm not on either side or on the other side." Well, that's an empty talk. Retention - de facto it is the 'no' vote! And I think many who watch our sitting will keep track of it... Also from municipalities... Let us say, those who would like to have a greater chance for local governments to tell themselves where to be or not to be gambling. So please note: everyone who will abstain in the vote... That is, in essence, a 'no' vote. Secondly. The guidelines were mentioned. So... As we know, these guidelines failed with a big blink in the government, and it is clear that the second move now being made... probably will be rejected because the Ministry of Finance has come to the conclusion that gambling in the regions - it is our big Nokia, it is our chance to be rich, that we must not in any way limit gambling or perhaps even reduce it... No, those guidelines place the emphasis on the fact that we need to develop them. You know, develop! That's crazy! So it's about the guidelines. The economic effect. Perhaps someone will try to convince us that the revenue from the budget depends on gambling. Bullshit! This is a complete fool, because money that is not left in gambling - it goes to consumption, it goes to Rimi, or Maxima, it goes to the workshop of the author, it goes to the local cafe; its money comes back to the budget either in the form of VAT, or in the form of personal income tax, or in the form of excise tax, or in any other form. The only economic effect I see is yes, let's say, in the art collectors' circles... Maybe there's going to be a reduction in the movement of money, and maybe one of the other commission governors... Perhaps it will be more difficult for a wife to sell paintings. Yes, it could be an economic effect. So... Yeah, now I'd like to turn... And the fourth point... to the lots. TOWARDS... I think 90 percent of your voters support my proposals, they don't want as many gaming halls as there are in the regions, right here in Riga. You have a golden opportunity, you have a gold card - here we have disagreements in the coalition on this issue. Use this opportunity to go to your voters and say, "We're not afraid, we're doing it, and in fact, the gaming halls will be closed within two years!" The Group of the National Alliance and the New Unity - free vote. Be bold, use it! The ZZS Group! These are my proposals - one hundred percent! - Valaini's proposals. Name, number, number. So... Well, I do not even see the possibility of you voting 'no' or abstaining. You will vote in favour because Valainis, as we know, is the Head of the Association of the Great Cities of Latvia. I think this is a self-evident principle that municipalities must have autonomy, self-determination - where to organise gambling and where not. It can't be that it's decided, let's say, some Birne in Riga. This is totally against the Charter of Local Government Autonomy. Well, and with regard to "Development/About!" . Yes, a lot, a lot is said that you... you are a party to your pocket, for example, there's something newupin' or there's something... Well, let's say, some others... art collectors associated with the Austrian company Novomatic. This is your chance to show that it's stupid. Your chance. As for two years, let us say, this deadline would be reduced. It may be that... can also be three years, but five years - that's too much. And if two years are too short, then, please, the President may ask for this - to change, the Constitutional Court may ask for it - to change; all this is to be done. But please support my proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U23	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U24	I am, of course, in a moderate shock for a number of Members who have previously voted against... even against a draft law on the restriction of gambling being passed on to the Commission. In this case, these Members, who are willing to destroy outside Latvia's families and support this disease of gambling, have the opportunity to give municipalities the right to ban gambling within the territory of the respective municipalities under their own binding rules. And such a proposal was supported exactly the same... another draft law relating to decoding, which was submitted by Valainis at that time. This time, I don't know why... History is: in order not to direct their bill, a new bill - decoding - was made, because it is so important for the gambling lobby that gaming helles work all over Latvia and destroy Latvian families that they call not only all members in the Saeima and in the lobby to vote against the draft law presented by the new Conservatives and other party members, but also... in this case, has achieved that the draft law - decoding - which provides for administrative liability for infringements of the gambling sector is pushed into the drawer at Bondar, who lives from incomprehensible means of origin, by the way, and a new bill is even being made, which he wanted - without a deadline for the submission of proposals! - Let's get it through last sitting, but it didn't work. And now, a proposal that has already been supported by that first law... in the draft law, here is presented. I think it is absolutely necessary to support this proposal. All the more so because on 18 February we were able to read an article about the corruption scandal in Austria, a famous gambling company in Novomatic. On 11 February in Austria, there was a search by the Minister for Finance in connection with this scandal of corruption, and there are texts there - they are paying everyone. It turns out that this company is also the largest owner of a gambling company in Latvia, which operates with all known gaming halls. And now I have the question: why not Members support this proposal to potentially close the gaming halls of the subsidiary company involved in this corruption scandal that is taking place abroad here? I just have the following question: why not support it? I am very sorry that the National Association transferred - transferred! - this idea... the need to restrict gambling halls on the territory of Latvia. I'll remind you every time I have a chance. I don't have any... I have no doubt that “Development/About!” for some reason is the gambling lobby in power ( hopefully it will ever come to light!) , but I have great indignation and shock at the hypocrisy of the National Alliance: on the one hand, it talks about supporting families on the other hand voting against restrictions on gambling. It is a very great shame, because you know well that family fathers who have process addiction to gambling go to wages per day and play their money. I have heard the following cases: when he sold a car to buy his children a bigger car, where all the children can sit down, he played that money along the way. National association, you are guilty of not voting! And you can actually still revitalise yourself in this vote. I am not talking about the Kremlin's SASCAN and oligarch's ZZS, who have long been discrediting themselves as political power and acting only as political economic groups, just like Development/About! . But you're an inconvenient who destroys Latvian families. I call for support for this proposal and at least for municipalities where there is some sense of mind in people, local Members, to have the opportunity to issue binding regulations and to ban these gaming helles in the territories of the respective municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U25	Name to Member Igor Pimenov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U26	Good morning, colleagues! Welcome to Mr. Feldman from the Kremlin! But I will continue to talk about the first proposal made by your group member, Gatis Eglitis. I support this proposal for two reasons. I have already spoken on a similar proposal and will now allow me to reiterate my position. First. The objective of this proposal is to combat gambling addiction, which is directed against its material foundations - gambling - and thus, in my view, corrects the error made during the years of independence. Maybe I wouldn't be so insistable if there were no ones among my acquaintances who got into this hell of games who were ruined by the professional reputation of those who violated the law because of this addiction. This proposal is not at all an absolute ban on gambling; it is an opportunity for municipalities to move gambling sites to areas where they will not be visible and, consequently, to stop the reproduction and rearing of the new generation of gambling customers. It is young people who are most likely to develop addiction to gambling. The considerations about the harmfulness of gambling are not understandable to a young person if the viewing of the gaming hall is in front of his eyes. It's even less clear to the child. A young person or a child who is not allowed to attend a gaming hall shall be regarded as the norm of what he or she sees and what he or she is showing. And let's not deceive ourselves - winner windows in front of children bring up the new generation of gambling clients even if the ban on children visiting them is scrupulously respected, so if we really want to stop raising gambling consumers in Latvia, we do not need to organise gambling at least in places available to many young people. Secondly. I took part in a series of discussions in which the participants stressed that the proposal under consideration, if adopted, would create fertile ground for bribery - corruption. There are indeed risks of corruption for public entities to choose, but these risks are significantly higher in the absence of regulation. If there is regulation, the risks become smaller, because the wrongdoer is punished. This proposal will not allow gambling to be organised in the places or territories of the municipality concerned, as set out in the binding rules of the municipality. If territories or places where gambling is not allowed to be organised are indicated in the binding rules, it becomes more difficult to take corrupt action... than at present when a decision is taken in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 42. This determines: ‘... the authorisation to organise gambling on a case-by-case basis shall be decided by the municipal council, assessing whether the organisation of gambling on a specific site does not constitute a serious breach of the interests of the population of the State and the administrative territory concerned’. ( End quoted) Assessment of interest abuse - there is an abuse of interest or there is no abuse of interest, and on a case-by-case basis it is a question. It is easier to manipulate - compared to an indication in the binding rules. I conclude that the proposal under consideration significantly reduces corruption risks rather than increases them. If this proposal is supported, municipalities will be freed from the need to court businessmen, but they will be entitled to determine in their administrative territories where gambling can and cannot be organised. I support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U27	The name is Sandy Riekstin. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U28	Hello, colleagues! I would first of all like to thank those who supported the previous draft law, which, unfortunately, was not passed on to the Commission. I am surprised by some Members who sign the bill themselves and then abstain from voting, but let it remain on your conscience. I will appeal to my colleagues from the National Alliance, where it seems that part of the vote is so, part of it is different. This is a real opportunity - one that you have already missed, but yet another - to show you some actions and actions that you are really standing up for, because if you do not vote, abstain or vote against these proposals by Mr Eglitis, then I would ask you to stop speaking and calling slogans and not doing them again. For example, there you are for families, there you are for demographics! You will not simply have the moral right to do so any more - neither to promote the flag of Latvia nor to burn the torch. It's just that simple. And this is what we will see today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U29	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U30	The President of the sitting. Dear Members, There is a very, very interesting debate today. Thank you very much to the New Conservatives, let us say, the genius that they have been able to think so far as they have put forward proposals that I had prepared more than a year ago and presented to the bill. Of course, I have a question about what you did this year? Why did you do absolutely nothing when you were on the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission? Being also at the government coalition table... You did not have a priority on this issue. But there are some things in turn that are known to happen. And it happens that there are pre-election cycles and how this issue became relevant to you before the Riga City Council elections, as well as now. Of course, it's already... What can be done is the situation, and with this understanding of achieving the objectives, I cannot congratulate you in particular. But your moralisation today has asked me to apply for this debate and to tell you a little bit about what it means to deal with these issues in substance. The moralisation of today's representatives of a government party... It is not that this issue has fallen out of the air here. Now Members are awake - elections are coming, something needs to be done. Let's fight gambling! Colleagues, a couple of weeks ago - a couple of weeks ago! - this issue has been addressed in the government. What did the Ministers of the New Conservative Party do? The meetings of the Government may be followed. What did the UK Ministers do at the government meeting when they started to look at this issue? There was no talk, there was nothing where from the same point of view it was a question of redistribution of responsibility. The information report that you are referring to here... Today you are criticising them, but you are not doing so in the real policy of the government. You ask me what I do, what I have done in the meantime. I have done quite a lot: that there should be no gambling on the highways, that they should be removed from the highways; that there should be much more stringent restrictions, including what I already put into the proposal more than a year ago, so that this is reflected in the same guidelines, and that the local authorities and the public sector will continue to be guided by the granting of permits. That too. At the moment, I can already believe that I have managed to achieve this. Perhaps not as a Member of Parliament, but in public work. Colleagues, today's moralisation is precisely because a couple of weeks ago your mouth was hard, but you're up again today... wake up again, but don't do anything in the government... How many options did you have to put this issue on top of your top priority in the vote on the budgets? Where were your priorities? You did not have any priorities at all. It was a pity - to vote... destroy micro-entrepreneurs and now tell them that people don't have anything to eat, that money is played in gambling. Micro-entrepreneurs, taxpayers, are currently leaving money by paying taxes. Their business is going to be stuck in front of you. And your priorities in the budget were - zero! There was no budget priority for you. We fought for a prison so that something could be built. Imminent things. You did not fight for what was really necessary for society. The elections are coming and we are beginning to fight again, but two weeks ago you were not fighting. You didn't fight in the government sitting. But you can be sure that these questions, when you see that you're a little interested, but it's just like a pre-election slogan, we'll do it without you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U31	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U32	Good morning, dear colleagues! I did not intend to talk about this, but listening to the call from some of my colleagues, but some things should be said. The issue of gambling for this Saeima is really an endless story. If the New Conservative Party, at least if not so often, but at least half of this time, put forward proposals for the implementation of "3 × 500"... With gambling. Yes, they may have adverse reactions, sometimes very adverse reactions. Its negative side effects can be reduced, but it is important to understand that they cannot be eliminated, because this is the nature of people, like with alcohol, just like with smoking and so on. There is a long-standing solution to this in the world after many, many unsuccessful attempts to eliminate this addiction completely. This solution is the so-called sin tax, that is, things like gambling, alcohol, cigarettes, other addictions - they are subject to additional taxes. Consequently, it is not true that, if we try to ban it at least formally, there will be no effect on the revenue of the budget. It'll be! Because, I will repeat, we are talking about an extra tax on gambling. This is not paid only for the usual: value added tax, labour taxes, etc., and additional taxes are paid. Similarly, if we intend to ban (at least formally try to ban) alcohol sales, the sale of cigarettes, it will have a negative impact on the budget because it is also subject to those additional excise duties. In the case of gambling they are separate gambling taxes. That is why this is the best solution to control and this revenue, the extra revenue that can be measured, if I remember correctly, in several tens of millions of euros, to shift to good things that would not be possible if we now started to support as if it were formal... a total ban, whereby people don't care, I think, would play gambling, only in all kinds of semi-legal, illegal electronic ways, where we wouldn't get anything from it. Go on. For the municipalities. You, colleagues, have set up a system yourself, where municipalities receive revenues close to zero from these gambling taxes. That is why the local authorities have only problems with the organization of gambling in the endless distance of the Ministry of Finance, but the local authorities do not get any revenue, because you have shifted all your revenues to the national budget, which I have warned at the same time that this will not be good. It's not fair, it's smart, it's rational, it's not like that. And finally, colleagues! I see that those who signed this application are mainly members of the New Conservative and Group CPV LV. Colleagues! Yesterday... He shot a man yesterday... They shot a man in daylight... daylight in a densely populated area... with the machine... publicly. What does that say? And this is not the first time, colleagues! And I guess it's not the last one. It says that foreign Killers perceive Latvia as such... That's the way to the gun, safari. And what... The police board's hands, they announced a plan, they were looking for a plan. Most likely, it will be the same as with Bunk and others. What are those parties doing, those fellow Members who are directly responsible to the government for the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior? The first thing you're doing today? You propose to increase funding for your industries. You are calling for these issues to be dealt with? No, no. Colleagues! It's really a question of your conscience. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U33	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U34	I listened very carefully to the passionate speeches of the UK Members and reached one conclusion. Dear UK Members! I will, of course, not remind you of all those "3 × 500" and all the rest, but I would remind you that I am looking at Karina's request for a resignation today. You're so angry at coalition parties... You're in that coalition yourself. Today, we will be convinced of this duality in the vote on the government's resignation. So these proposals will obviously be rejected. And if you are not already, UK Members, two-cots, then you should leave the government today. If you do not leave the government, then these are only empty speeches, just like “3 × 500” and everything else. The same is likely to apply to the members of the CPV LV. So, if you're lammy Bondar yourself or what else... Well, you got it. I think that society as a whole also understood that the moment of truth for the UK's duality today will be a little later, during this sitting, when we vote in favour of Karini's request for a resignation. Then let us talk about those gambling that you do or do not support there. If you are already in this government, you are actually in favour. That's one chapter. The second section, which is very significant and interesting. Since the Minister of Justice is Bordāns from the UKP, since the Minister of the Interior is from KPV LV, and since Ķuzis is in the New Unity, there have been order murders in Latvia (significantly, isn't it?) , which did not reveal - all in a row. No serious murder was discovered. Rebenok didn't find murder. Yesterday...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U35	Mr Gobzem, please excuse me, but please speak for proposal 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U36	Now it's linked...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U37	No, it's not. Please talk about the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U38	Mrs Beitneres-Le Gallas, this is also linked to this proposal that we should have looked at today's proposals on the home affairs and justice system. I am also against gambling, but today the following proposals should have been made on the agenda for the actual murder of parties that manage justice and home affairs. And adopted today. I think that is significant. Significantly for the people who say that they are two-fold, even though they themselves will vote in favour of this government today, they will support this government and will continue to lie to their voters in the same spirit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U39	The name to Member Eva Marty. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U40	Hello! Gambling addiction is pathological, all of us understand it, we have agreed to it, but we forget a little the second section about which perhaps we have not thought that gambling is... this addiction is a severe disease, not only an abnormal tendency, but also a disease, and as a disease it is classified. Classification with SSK-10, and code F63, because it repeats, in the mouth and sicks others, i.e., makes people addicted to themselves and, at the same time, affects, of course, families, children and so on. The chain continues. It is so interesting that we are so active in the fight against the community, but we do not want to understand that gambling is also a similar virus infection, with which we simply have to fight. Maybe it's worth thinking and all doctors and scientists sit in their hands and start working at the gambling pot? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U41	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U42	Dear colleagues, We can, of course, laugh at a family scandal that we can see in a coalition, but I have to admit, however, that I want to compliment Mr Eglitis for the courage. Perhaps that courage is not always demonstrated. Yes, unfortunately, as Members of the coalition are due to, sometimes someone falls under the table silently, someone is now jumping out, waving the flag, but now, however, these moments are... The moments of truth are positive and actually bring a lot of light into our coalition bog. I would like to say that, of course, I will support this proposal. If such proposals are not supported, I call for the submission of such proposals to be continued in order to ensure that the motivational means that are supplied to the political or committee leaders are, most probably, finally to someone who may be out of the way, and that perhaps also the office that we have, which is solely involved in monitoring corruption, also catch up with these cases, because... I think it's very simple to see it so... if any proposal is put forward that is very sensitive to a particular sector, then I think it is necessary to activate all the ears and all the eyes around the Saeima to be able to catch those who take and those who give. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U43	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U44	Dear colleagues, I would like perhaps all of us to study the substance of this proposal a little bit. This is not about the fact that gambling is completely prohibited, but about the fact that these restrictions will significantly reduce this business. Look at this proposal! The proposal provides for municipalities to determine where gambling will not be possible in their territory. In fact, as the municipal elections approach, it is a very good incentive and a good gift for future Members in local governments. Recalling also its experience, working in the Prize district at its time - there were three gambling halls - three - in a city that is relatively small, less than eight thousand people! - in the very center. At shops, at church, on the main street. The municipality tried to limit every effort to redirect these gaming halls to another place, but could not, in court lost. So what's going on here? Is the municipality or the Members who determine the policy and order in their administrative territory in each municipality, or are not the directors? They should be the leaders. I would call for: however, we do not need to insult each other here. Perhaps to reject these ambitions and also political insults against each other, whether they are members of coalition parties or other Members. Just from such a rational, logical conclusion, such an approach should be seen. I would call for this proposal to be supported. Well, the municipalities should also be in charge of this issue in their territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U45	Name of Member Anita Muižniece. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U46	Hello, colleagues! For many years, municipalities have been struggling to decide where and where they should be. We have this complicated system, and it is very difficult to deal with gaming halls at the moment. As we can see, unfortunately, neither the previous parliaments nor this parliamentary term, I regret very much, and the policy as a whole seems to have not been removed from the shadow of the gambling lobby. Gambling is primarily, and most importantly, just a devastation, a disaster and a project to fill some septic pockets. Mr Dombrovskis, the revenue from the budget from the taxes paid in millions of euros. Indeed, I really believe that you are a very wise man, and you understand very well that the money does not disappear - without being introduced into one form of taxation, it will return to a very different economy. Mr Valaiņš, after a passionate speech, I understand that you will not defend the ideas that have been presented before. Then we can automatically assume that your real intentions in making any kind of proposals are only populist-oriented, right? Because you give only when you know that will be rejected, with the aim of heating your opponent's bench. Be bolder, Mr. Valaiņš! And finally, the National Association! I really feel very, very sad, truly sad about your previous vote, because I really believe that it was because of your votes that the previous draft law on the restriction of gambling was not passed on and this is your chance for people, for Latvia and for happy families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U47	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U48	Colleagues! I do not even, to be honest, know what to add to myself - to the Kremlin agents or to someone else - but in this case I would like to talk about the proposal and not about emotions. As a rule, when any changes to the law are proposed, it is primarily a systemic approach. In this case, if we value the systemic approach, then there are two extreme positions: to ban everything or to allow everything. No one or the other will be available, because if it is a disease, it must be treated if it is an passion and something bad about people, then it must be fought. What, though, is this? What's going on? Naturally, it seems to me that it is clear and understandable that a parliament must define... if we go to the fact that gambling is legalized, so we lay down the rules of the game by law. Then one of the questions is who is realizing this case. The proposal that has been made today and that we are talking about today is that, according to certain rules of the game, this process is organised by local authorities, which, to be honest, is right... This is the right approach, but is not complete, since, when it comes to the fact that municipalities undertake to carry out this function, it is a natural autonomous function, and it is natural that, in the exercise of that function, municipalities must also have appropriate sources of revenue. One of them is charges that come from gambling and organising it. Therefore, the next step would also be to think about the systemic approach in this case. It is open, unopened, but we are beginning to discuss the new draft law, which is called the “Law of Municipalities”. If 19 autonomous functions could also be signed up to this function, it would be a constructive step and it would give the municipalities legal opportunities to deal with these matters. But in this case too, if the same populists as the New Conservative Party come under the leadership of the local government with their head office in the Saeima, there will be no great point in this. Thus, the whole law should be viewed in principle and the system should be designed, bearing in mind whether we want to ban everything or to shift it to civilised rails. I will personally support this proposal because I believe that this is a step forward and should probably be followed by the next steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U49	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U50	I would like to repeat, once again, two points that were not told enough. The first is on taxes. Different goods are taxed in different ways or in different ways. Illustrate with alcohol. When you spend one euro on alcohol, it will depend on whether it is strong alcohol, wine, beer or who, you will pay taxes quite a lot - not only VAT, but also excise duty on alcohol. If, let us assume, you ban alcohol, and even if this person spends one euro on the alcohol he intends to spend on milk, he will not pay the same amount of tax because the milk does not have excise duty. So I will repeat to you once again: banning gambling and even accepting it - even accepting it! - that people will spend this money on milk, tax revenues will not be as high as before. That's one. Second, they won't eat it for milk. By formally prohibiting gambling, it is likely that what will happen will be that a large part of this money will go out of all kinds of legal, semi-legal, illegal... Internet gambling. This money will simply come out of the country and it will not be subject to any real taxes. The possibilities to limit it are very, very limited. In the case of municipalities... Now I'm over here, but I'll just repeat: in a situation where municipalities don't get... receive zero percent of those revenue, of course, municipalities will take decisions that they would probably not have taken if the distribution were 50 to 50, but that was your coalition, decision, colleagues! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U51	Name to Member Juris Jušas. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U52	Colleagues, unfortunately, I must admit that the vote on the draft law restricting gambling... Well, it's with such a bright smell of corruption, in my opinion. I knew that the gambling industry had a huge impact on certain political parties, including those parties belonging to the coalition, but I did not think that still so much depending on these political parties is kept from individual people, and I am, of course, sorry to admit that indeed many slogans, many loud messages about how individual political parties are fighting for public interests, about children, about families, are just empty words and unfortunately these words are not in harmony with works. If we are talking specifically about this proposal made by Gatis Eglitis, then this is one way of allowing the citizens of our country, the residents of the municipalities, the residents of municipalities, through their own fronts, to make a decision, it is necessary or not necessary to have one or the other gambling hall in their administrative territory. At the moment, the situation is that the gambling industry in fact, in my opinion, controls the tickets and the monitoring inspection of gambling and it is profitable for them that completely all municipalities in Latvia are controlled from Riga centrally. It is clear that they are having a difficult life if this decision-making process is organised separately in each municipality. But I would like to remind my colleagues that the restriction of gambling (I would like to emphasise the word "restriction"). those previous speakers who have spoken of an absolute and total ban either have not read or gone into the draft law, or have deliberately deceived the public. So we are talking about reasonable restrictions like those on alcohol sales and consumption, like those on cigarettes, like those on smoking, for example, in cafes. At this point in time, it does not seem to us to be crazy or unacceptable that smoking in cafes is not allowed. In the same way, when we weigh the interests of society as a whole, we are calling for, and the public is doing so - calling... So 80, more than 80 percent of society calls for restraint... What is the force and power that force all of you to do the opposite? At this point, I would like to say that this proposal by Gata Eglišs, in a situation where the majority of the fellow Members have rejected a comprehensive solution that would also solve the substance of this proposal, so that by determining the organisation of the activities of four, five-star hotels of gambling medicinal products, is an instrument that gives every municipality, citizens in general, to decide whether or not they need such medicinal products in their administrative territory. Let us not deprive them of the right to choose their own destiny. I believe that we have the opportunity, with this vote, to prove that this influence and power of the gambling industry over individual Members, political parties will eventually disappear. Please support the proposal by Gata Eglišs.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U53	The name to Member Igor Pimenov for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U54	Thank you, Madam President. The reference to human nature, justifying the desire to exploit human weakness in order to earn money at its expense, is as long ago as money is. The sin tax, Vjačeslav, is an indulgence, which operators buy for legalization of their wishes. Anyone who seeks to support this legalisation must tell themselves honestly whether or not he or she, knowingly or unconsciously, wants the rearing of gambling consumers to be stopped or does not want to. If you want to, you need to organise gambling at least in places that are not accessible to many young people. With this proposal, which we are now looking at, the managers of municipalities have been given a tool in their hands to manage this situation and themselves on the ground, so to say, to decide what is the solution that would enable our young people to really be saved, to protect them from the influence of gambling, that is to say, it is to organise gambling in the places or territories of the municipality concerned, which are laid down in the binding regulations of the municipality. This is not a ban on gambling... at least now, so I call for proposal 1 to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U55	The name of the Member Anita Muižniece for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U56	Thank you. Good afternoon! I would perhaps like to reflect, however, on what Mr Dombrovskis said in the second speech of the debate. It is clear that by directly limiting gambling, we can also not recover to the same extent back, but it is important to look not only at the tax side, but also to look at the savings, not even by prohibiting, simply limiting gambling venues, in the state budget at the expense of health, at their resources... which will drive on calls to save human lives. I will remind you that gambling is one of the reasons why people go out of life early, and the premature death of every person - it is also economic damage to the whole country. In general, a combination of taxes that would go back in other ways to the economy and the reduction of potential losses would certainly be expected to prevent the state from losing nothing and benefit only people by limiting gambling. Thank you. I call on you to support the Eglish proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U57	The name is Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U58	Once again, to be honest, I would not want to talk about smacks, about what is lobbying, what is being received, because I think Mr Jušas had to do it much more specifically and more constructively in his previous work. On this proposal, I say once again, the proposal is good, but it is only one small part of the whole system. In support of this proposal, we should also think about the next steps, and gambling levies are just an instrument, it is not a source of income and revenue, but it is an instrument that would help to evaluate more objectively if we haven't started the way towards a complete ban on gambling, which would be foolish. In that case, it would be appropriate to transform gambling halls into preventive ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U59	Mr. Zarins, please tell me, will you have enough three minutes?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U60	I think it's enough.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U61	Please, name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U62	While the debate took place, I went to the calendar to see what the moon phase is. It turns out, there's not yet a full moon. So there is a valid question why we have such a debate today? Maybe because some parties... Conservatives have taken a look... having learned the results of yesterday's party ratings and is now in deep despair and thinking about what to do, how to pay attention to yourself, if with empty promises, with your constituents... lying and other lying those points no longer come. Today you are here (A sound break.) ... a real circus. You are a party to power. You could have solved all these issues in the coalition long ago if you really wanted to do them, not make a circus here, a show to the public. You are (A sound breakdown.) ... because you are talking here and you are sorry, you say you are nothing that you are not in a coalition and you cannot do anything for yourself. You're now... You are talking today about our golden voices, about the beautiful gold voices. We will provide them for you. If you cannot do anything for yourself, we will show you who you can work with, on which votes you can count. Today you will receive these golden voices. And so you will also be a substance for reflection. Now apply to yourself everything you have tried to reproach others today. The next time you vote on an aspect of the OIC, where your votes will be decisive, let us see how you vote. Let us remind your constituents, as you voted when they were, let us say, these scandalous mask purchases... for useless respiratorys, where was your gold voices... you were with these voices and covered this aero. On the purchase of vaccines, where facts showed that the test of service, as if carried out in the Ministry of Health, was actually a cover - a cover! - not to discover this crime. And your voices were decisive to continue to investigate it, but you covered it all. You who have come to power that you have loudly promised to fight against the coercion and corruption of power - you are now taking part in it and covering it up. There is a valid question whether you really want to fight with what you have promised your constituents, whether you really want to participate and try now to free up your niche to come to you and talk to you. There's a feeling that you know that there's been some kind of conversation, now you feel that you're going to talk to someone other than you, and that's why you're making a circus here, not actually solving the problem. You are a party to power, you are in a coalition, you have been able to resolve this for a long time and come with a systemic solution. You haven't been able to do anything but promise it's empty. We will give you a chance today to start doing something. We will support your proposal, but in the future, think about your golden voices when there will be an OIC, when all these vaccine aphoric stories come, that's all you are now... in which you participated... What will your votes be like? I call on the voters to follow along and draw conclusions on this party - to whom they actually serve, with what objectives they come here and tell their fairy tales. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U63	There's a break in the debate. Let's keep going after... Interruption right now. Registration of Members. This has happened. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U64	Dear Members, Honourable Members! We shall continue the examination of the agenda of the remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 15 April 2021. Amendments to the Law on Gambling and Lots are currently on the agenda, with a second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. We are left with proposal 1. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Aldim Adamovich. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U65	Hello, colleagues! I would like to say that I have been the head of the municipality for several years and have had quite a lot of everyday contact with these issues. It must be said that, to date, the municipalities have had a very small opportunity to regulate the opening or closing of gambling medicinal products or the placing of a specific place in these gaming medicinal products. However, at the moment it has to be said that the gambling guidelines are under discussion, and we know that currently the Ministry of Finance and the Latvian Municipal Union are trying to reach an agreement in order to give local governments the opportunity to restrict gaming halls. Of course, I personally am in favour of this proposal and I do not support the gaming halls, but it should be borne in mind that in 2021 the state budget taxes on the gaming halls amount to about 30 million, which we use in various areas - both for teachers and health care. And there are about three thousand people working in this area who pay income tax and also provide income to their families. I have to say that these proposals are very unexpectedly tabled and, of course, today, I think each Member will decide how to vote. However, we should obviously expect the Ministry of Finance to negotiate these guidelines with the Latvian Municipal Union to understand how and how these revenue losses can be compensated. Therefore, think carefully about this vote and vote for your conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U66	In the next debate, Member Ilze Indricksone. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U67	Hello, colleagues! I would like to remind you of the reflections that took place at both the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission and in the past, even when it was tabled. The Commission agreed and invited the Saeima to determine the urgency of this draft law, which is a significant difference in the process. You yourself know that there is no room for further clarification at third reading; you could say, correct and clarify, and change. Consequently, I also see a number of risks for this proposal. Both the fact that there are binding regulations in municipalities could be said to be... such a local law, but there is a significant difference between binding rules and spatial planning. Some time ago, we also discussed in the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) about the possibility for the municipality to identify areas where gambling would be prohibited, and then there was a discussion precisely about this difference. The majority supported the establishment of this ban in the site plan, as the municipality does not draw up the site plan for a half year, the minimum period for which the site plan is drawn up is 12 years. And 12 years is expected to say, time, stable time, in which then without essential... the changes do not alter this planning, and this is the local law in the area of land use. In my opinion, this would be exactly the right way for the municipalities to evaluate and take their decisions. The process is also significantly different. The territory's plan includes a public consultation, all the impacts are being assessed, as it says, and it is a much more important document. On the other hand, the binding rules, to put it simply, can be changed, redesigned, adopted every six months, could say political decisions and regulate municipal management cases and issues, but the building rules and use of the territory are very serious, and any business... Unfortunately, restrictions on gambling are also restrictions on business, which I believe must be adopted in a stable way and, if adopted, for a long time, rather than changing from time to time. I see risks that, by supporting this proposal - which I also, of course, generally support - and I understand that local authorities must be given the opportunity to determine the use of their territory - could have the consequences that this law will enter into force on the day following the announcement, which means that soon. Then, in local governments, binding regulations will become binding on one page - we will no longer have gambling on our territory, we are now issuing such binding regulations - and the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development will receive such binding rules for harmonisation. So small, could say, the moment of joy that all of us will get rid of gambling drugs, but I think it will cause a lot of bad reactions after that... Further. Of course, these owners of gambling medicines will turn to court, trying to prove that this is not justified. Simply binding rules politically can be said to be hardly justified. It could be said that these restrictions will be adopted so that they cannot be challenged, and that will simply create many different risks, unfortunately. I see that this proposal is a good idea and one that can be supported, but certainly it would just be an opportunity... If there is a third reading - if not, certainly, next time we open this law, this should be improved and, nevertheless, it should be stipulated that the spatial plan is the one in which municipalities can put these restrictions and regulations, because it is much more stable, for a longer time, more predictable and more difficult, could be called in question. And it would work really, in essence, not just because of political decisions, which, in my opinion, could lead to such a very interesting situation, but without a practical, real result, unfortunately, if we supported this proposal by the whole majority. So we can appreciate it. I am gladly aware that the proposal is to be supported, but the performance could be very risky.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U68	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Uldis Budric.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U69	Highly honored Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, Well, Mrs. Indricksones, I don't even know. If the municipality were to set the next day that there would be no gambling hall in this municipality, it would not take effect the next day. As you do, we know very well that there is a transitional period. What do I want to say? Local governments do not currently have any tools to ban gambling halls. Although 80 percent of the population demands that this area be arranged, directly limited, received further from the eyes, municipalities are also waiting for this... As we know... This is what Mr Adamovič said about Preili, that there have been problems there, Mr Kazinovsky said that there have been problems in the Prizes, and this we can continue to do because there have also been problems in Liepaja, Kuldīga, Livani, and that is just... only the first page with a grooming for the closure or restriction of gambling medicinal products. I would call for support for the proposal. That really does not cause any harm. And on such moral and ethical considerations... Well, with the National Association as if everything was clear: after... If this proposal were to be rejected, they would no longer have to talk to them about some kind of family defense for moral and ethical reasons. But I am most impressed by “Development/About!” opinion, because you postulate yourself as advocates of all families, completely all families, but at the same time you are going to lose and play just because you are under the influence of the gambling medication lobby. I call for these proposals to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U70	The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U71	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Colleagues! We have been able to talk in this debate about both the person who has been murdered very recently and the murder of my colleague, Pavel Rebenok, and the murder of Bunkus. We were still able to talk about the murder of Arross and the disappearance of the puzzle lawyer Platač. However, if we return to the substance of the proposal itself, the Member Gatis Eglitis has proposed in this draft law that regulation be laid down in binding rules in the municipalities' territories. So, returning to the very essence, I would like to say that this is a good proposal. Local authorities would be given these opportunities, knowing the necessity of local areas and, at the same time, understanding the structure of the population and so on. Moreover, this does not mean that municipalities will now write regulations on a single page, as has been said here, completely bypassing public consultation, other processes that are statutory for municipalities. The proposal is therefore logical in nature, to be supported, because in this case it could be much better regulation to tackle the problem - it is not in any way linked to jobs, to tax revenues. I am very sorry, gambling is the instrument by which money is simply "wrought out" from the weaker people of society. Now let's be logical: this money that a person plays in gambling doesn't get into the family, it's not any entertainment, it's really both a pro-addictive and a pro-addictive aspect. In this case, if the money came into the family, we would not see so many social problems, we would see tax revenues both through value added tax, through corporate tax, through social taxes and other taxes. Consequently, in substance, this proposal is fully supported, and I do not see any need for another third reading, because the debate has been very wide today. I therefore call for this to be supported, it is very logical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U72	I closed the debate. Mr. Kozlovsky, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U73	On behalf of the Commission, I would really like to clarify the opinion accordingly at the meeting of the Commission. Latvian Municipal Union did not express an opinion, expressed by the Employers' Confederation of Latvia. On the other hand, what I mentioned at the outset was that the committee really decided to vote without a special debate... and yes, with a majority of abstentions, this proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U74	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Gata Eglitis's proposal! Please vote mode! For -62, for -16, for -10. The proposal is supported. ( Pause) Mr. Kozlovsky?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U75	Yeah. 2. - the proposal of Members Stepanenko and Svekov. The intention is to clarify the fifth paragraph of Article 41 by adding a ban on advertising to the ban on gambling. advertising of interactive gambling. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U76	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U77	Dear colleagues, Formally in Latvia gambling advertising is prohibited, it is written in the law, but what we have observed in many places is that the operators of gambling circumvent this law... this ban in such a way that advertising gambling sites does not seem to say that they are gambling, but they are simply websites and everything else. I was surprised, of course, once again by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission's debate, and these arguments were raised against them. Yes, Signe Birne was also invited and she commented. What we heard was really shocking. So the head of the inspection of the supervision of gambling and gambling admits that there are currently several operators of gambling licensed in Latvia who deliberately violate this law and order advertising. She admits this and says that nothing can be done about it and that the proposal we tabled does not solve the problem, because then all the illegals and so on will come up again. We have heard a lot of these arguments about illegals, but the truth is that, at the end of last year, we encouraged a proposal that was supported by the majority of the Saeima, that the Cabinet of Ministers had until 10 January to draw up appropriate proposals to combat these illegal gambling... illegal gambling websites. It is already in mid-April, but no proposal to combat this gambling has entered the Saeima. The only thing that we have found in these gambling guidelines - which are now stuck or not stuck in the Cabinet, what is happening there - is the only one! - To which the Cabinet of Ministers, led by Kariņš, was able to figure out that the websites on which illegal gambling sites are advertised are blocked. This is the only proposal the government, with all the experts involved, with all the officials, had been able to figure out. Just imagine how big the lobby is now in government under Karini's leadership. Being aware of the fact that we are currently in violation of... In violation of the law, constantly, cynically these gambling operators simply spit on everyone, spit on the law, they order this ad, and this ad everywhere speaks to all viewers, readers, always on the top of all Olybet, Optibet and so on. And all that, in Signes Birnes' view, is absolutely normal. We therefore urge that this advertising of gambling sites should continue to be banned. And if someone says that we have players who will then look for illegal instead, which is really tiring to listen, then we will see that if advertising is prohibited at all, then everything that appears - all the flashing lights - if you open a website - it is certainly illegal and it must be prohibited. And you have to report on it. It is not now that we have to make a distinction between whether it is legal or not. Those who want to play, they go to the website of Birnes, the website of Birnes, and find a list of legal sites, and play as far as to go. It's so simple. But the fact that there is an allowed violation of the law in our legal state, which is clearly recognised by the head of inspection, is shouting. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U78	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U79	Yeah, I have to say that... I should like to thank Mrs Stepanenko, who has also noticed this nuance and managed to submit a proposal on the issue of advertising in this draft law. Of course I understand that... and thank the Members who supported the proposal 1, and then perhaps someone will save his conscience for voting against families who did not pass the bill... the draft law in question has not been put to the vote. But I must say that this issue is also of sufficient importance, so I am calling for support for this proposal, despite who has tabled it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U80	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Kozlovsky?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U81	Well, I can only remind you that this proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U82	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the motion submitted by Members Stepanenko and Svekov! Please vote mode! For - 47, for - 21, for - 17. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U83	3. - Member Eglysh's proposal. Provides for a decision on the withdrawal of a gambling permit... reduce the transition period from five years to two years. This proposal was also not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U84	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U85	Dear colleagues, First of all, thank you very much for the vote on proposal 1. Thank you for your courage. With regard to this proposal, this is also a very, very important proposal, and it was rejected, including by a majority of abstentions in the committee voting, but this is very important, because it significantly reduces the transitional period during which, after the decision of the Council, let us say about the binding rules that define the places and areas where gambling is not allowed... that period shall be reduced from five years to two years. It is a very, very reasonable time, because now, gambling - it is not some kind of rocket science where it takes years to eliminate or reorganize its economic activity. So that I really hope again on the greens of gold, on the ZZS of gold. If we have taken this first step in support of proposal 1, we will also take the second and third steps in support of this - 3 and the next one - 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U86	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U87	Thank you for supporting the first two proposals already in this draft law. This may in some way mitigate the feeling of disappointment allowed by the gambling lobby in general, by rejecting the transfer of the draft gambling law to the commission. This proposal is also nothing more than a proposal that has already been supported by the Commission, which is already in the bill - the draft law on decoding, which Mārtiņš Bondars from the gambling lobby affects the development of Latvia there and does not lead to consideration at the sitting of the Saeima. Why, in general, this bill is now separate... Another time is being driven through the Saeima? At that time, I think it was presented by Valainis in the first draft law that was, in general, a debate at that time, but now, taking into account many other processes, where it is about... some discussions have been about legal certainty and everything else... At this point in time, this seems to be a legitimate reduction in the deadline, and I therefore call for support, especially on the basis that it has already been supported by the Commission. There is no reason now to vote against a proposal that has already been supported by the Commission, so... and simply because one party is very dependent on the gambling lobby, that now the bill is not being put to the vote in the Saeima. We can simply correct that mistake, bypassing the actual gambling lobby, which is, of course, also in a coalition... because there is no coalition on this issue, it is dependent on the gambling lobby or its influence and those who are not dependent, and then there are perhaps any volatile ones, which may have been trying to be massively influenced yesterday and achieve some specific vote today. So I call... And, by the way, they were disappointed... They were disappointed, many couldn't be affected by calling yesterday. I therefore call for support for this proposal, which is nothing more than the one that has already been supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U88	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U89	President of the sitting, honourable colleagues! I would also call for once the Saeima has taken the road that is ready, after a half-and-a-half-a-year break, to support those proposals that the STECF had already prepared and presented. I would also like to tell you a little bit about the background that was at the time when we were looking at this issue, and these are those... of course, a whole series of challenges, with which public authorities are less, but local authorities... You mentioned parents, children, and husbands, wives who suffer from gambling. There are already a number of people who are struggling with the consequences. These are social services, educational administrations, which also have to work, and the funds that were previously budgeted from local governments, now from these places of gambling... The State took these budgetary resources entirely for itself, leaving the entire local government with responsibility. Then in this case, if once... if this was all the way together, then their responsibility must also be transferred to the municipalities in full - to assess. This period, which is two years, does not mean that it must be two years. It could be... Each situation can also be assessed separately. But I would like to point out to the new Conservative Party, which I mentioned earlier. This fight today and moralising other groups' colleagues, and telling us how much and where someone is in the lobby, what someone is not in the lobby, how much you're doing for gambling... This is the brightest place where you are essentially not fighting for the defender of gambling interests... influence these processes in some way. You only wake up on these issues in the pre-election processes, but in the further process, when there is really work on legislative initiatives... Why this question was supposed to be... Should we stand in the drawer for one and a half years? Why didn't you do anything in favour of entos budgets throughout this period? By supporting the budgets, supporting the government, you did nothing to make these issues move forward in some way. You had other types of priorities on which you joined, and also those... I will continue to talk about these issues today, but these issues were all the time on the ground, nothing was moving. More importantly... More importantly, you mention the guidelines that Mr Adamovich also referred to today. These documents are government agenda papers, and when the government agenda looks at such documents, the UK Ministers do not really have anything to say about them, and all these... And there a completely different form of action takes place. Local government organizations stand for their rights, stand for the right to decide, seeing that the Saeima is not prepared to grant this right through legislation. Today we see that the Saeima has made some choices. I think that these proposals, already being prepared for some time ago, should be seen as complexes and should go together. That is why I would also call for this proposal to be supported and to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U90	Name to Member Juris Jušas.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U91	Colleagues! It seems that individual Members are very disappointed that, step by step, we are moving towards limiting this activity of the gambling industry. It is difficult to accept that the process may not be as fast as the young Conservatives would like, but it is still in the right direction. If we are talking about a specific proposal, then I would like to say that the transitional period proposed by Gata Eglitis - two years instead of five years - is, in my opinion, very reasonable, also from the point of view of legitimate expectations, because these five years, which are long in this law, are certainly a time-barred by the gambling industry, which I think is disproportionately long. That could have been 10, 20, 30 years old. No other business area has ever been given such advantages, and I believe that it is high time to correct the mistakes that have once been made and to set this deadline in a much more adequate and proportionate way. So I am calling for support for this proposal by Gata Eglīks.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U92	I closed the debate. Mr. Kozlovsky, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U93	Only that, yes, this proposal was not supported either.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U94	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Member Gata Eglitis's proposal! Please vote mode! For - 38, against - 16, abstain - 29. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U95	4. - The proposal from Member Gats Eglitis. Provides for the addition of Article 42 with the tenth subparagraph, with the municipality also being entitled to define, in the binding rules, the places where gambling is... where gambling is not allowed. In the Commission, too, this proposal was voted by a majority... with no abstentions, was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U96	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U97	This proposal is linked to 1. I do not know whether this should be voted on. It's basically... By supporting proposal 1, this has already been supported if it is looking at. These are complexes, as Mr Valaiņš said: these two proposals. I call on you, yes, to support this proposal and to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U98	The Legal Bureau shall state that this proposal, 4, is to be put to the vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Member Gata Eglitis's proposal! Please vote mode! For - 61, for - 15, for - 7. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U99	Therefore, colleagues, we have examined all four proposals. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U100	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Gambling and Gaming! Please vote mode! For - 80, for - 1, for - 2. The law is passed. The next day, on the agenda of the Saeima, is the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 law on the control of the spread of infection”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Ilze Indricksone. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U101	Good afternoon, colleagues! This draft law was examined by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. I would like to remind you that this draft law was originally... was related, either to more favourable conditions for debtors in relation to the discharge of their debt obligations by giving them the right to voluntarily discharge their obligations or to object within a period of not more than 60 days from the date of receipt of the notification by the creditor or the provider of the debt recovery service. And this also applies to the transfer of obligations to forced execution. The draft law provided for an extension of this favourable period until 1 September 2021. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission received 20 proposals. We also looked at them. 1. - Member Pimenova's proposal. Associated with the fact that if the taxpayer is affected by Covid-19 restrictions on prevalence and he is... You could say that he's lost his income and the municipality doesn't get real estate tax... tax payments... that they are covered by the general national budget. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U102	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U103	Thank you to the rapporteur, who has formulated precisely the substance of my proposal. It is about real estate tax. Real estate tax is paid into the budget of the city or municipality of the republic where real estate is located in the administrative territory or part of it, as we know well. During the period of Covid–19 infection spread it is a state that ensures a level of rights of individuals proportionate to public health and security interests, including restrictions on the rights of individuals and effective functioning of state and municipal institutions. Thus responsibility for the results of the management of the spread of infection in overcoming the consequences of the spread, where the proportionality of public security, interests and restrictions on the rights of private persons has not been achieved or where the efficiency of the activities of state and municipal institutions is threatened by a reduction in budget revenue, lies with the Government and the Saeima. This is precisely the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection, which we are now looking at, which is intended to adjust public policies, ensuring both proportionality and improving the economic situation of society, including in municipalities. In my view, the rules laid down in Article 5 do not maintain the pre-war income of municipalities, nor do they sufficiently respect the fall in the solvency of immovable property taxable persons in the event of an emergency and in the context of the restrictions still in force. In addition, recent legal innovations, although supported by good intentions by the Saeima, impose a heavy administrative burden on municipalities. Therefore, in case the income of real estate tax payers has decreased as a result of the Covid–19 spread limitation, it is proposed that the payment of real estate tax to municipalities and the budgets of 2021 is financed from the state budget in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Cabinet of Ministers. What has already been strengthened in Article 5 and that is proposed by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commissions - Proposal 2 - is to postpone the problem until next year, simply suspending the calculation of the fine. On the other hand, the proposal that I propose is essentially a solution to the problem itself. We will remember that in this year's budget the income of personal income tax for municipalities was reduced from 80 to 75 percent, therefore the possibilities for municipalities to balance budgets are quite limited. I call for my proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U104	I closed the debate. Mrs. Indrickson, on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U105	The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U106	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Igora Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U107	2. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The second sentence of Article 5 shall be clarified by specifying the tax period for which the late payment is not calculated for immovable property tax payers, provided that the municipality has not extended those payment periods, but that the payer has not yet been able to make those payments. The clarification is that it applies to the tax of 2021... calculated taxes. The Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U108	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U109	3. - Member Pimenova's proposal. In order to be eligible for the aid, the Authority will assess whether the conditions laid down in Article 107(1) of the Treaty are met and, if so, whether the conditions set out in Article 107(1) of the Treaty are fulfilled. This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U110	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U111	Dear Members, honourable Members, I would like to remind you that this law... The first paragraph of Article 14 of the draft open law already provides that state and municipal institutions shall, by 30 June of this year, exempt companies affected by the exceptional situation identified in connection with the expansion of Covid-19, from the rent of public property and the property of a public limited company controlled by a public person or decide on a reduction in the rent. This provision is specified by the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations of 14 July 2020 No. 453, laying down that the lessee of immovable property or movable property of a public person and a public limited liability company shall apply a rent exemption or reduction if, within a specified period of time, the tenant’s income has decreased by at least 30 per cent among other conditions. But it happens that the company, which rents property in some public institutions, does not comply with the conditions set by the Cabinet of Ministers because its income, although it has decreased, is less than 30 per cent, therefore it is not exempt from the rent of the property. At the same time, as a result of the community crisis, the company ceases to provide services to certain institutions with which lease agreements were concluded. Its revenues in these leased assets fall to zero, but the company must continue to pay the lease in the course of the lease. It is not possible to do so for a long time. The company is forced to apply for the lease agreement, to dismiss some employees, to sell part of its property, and then the entrepreneur receives exemption from the lease fee for the remaining leased property because it complies with the Cabinet of Ministers regulations. It seems that everything is going on in accordance with the expected logic, but as a result, the company's assets are shrinking, after the end of the crisis it is resuming its activities weakened, but the public institution has lost the rent for the property that the company continued to use and therefore to rent also during the communion crisis. A more sensible solution would be to exempt the company from rental fees for public property not used by the lessee due to the consequences of Covid-19 spread. Such arrangements would allow the company to book for lease, maintain its business infrastructure and continue its business as soon as favourable conditions arise after the crisis has ended. I therefore propose that Article 14 of the law be supplemented with the first part, which exempts the company affected by the crisis from rental fees for the assets of a public institution, with paragraph 1.1, which exempts economic operators from rents for the assets of a public person, which are not used by the lessee due to circumstances which have been affected by the exceptional situation resulting from the expansion of Covid-19. I call for my proposal to be supported, because this proposal creates favourable conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises in particular to remain on the market and to continue operating even after the crisis has ended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U112	Mrs. Indicice, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so? The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U113	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U114	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Member Igora Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! For - 24, for - 55, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U115	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Refers to Proposal No 5. Both proposals provide that the third paragraph of Article 21... the words ‘debt within the meaning of the law on out-of-court recovery’ shall be moved from one part to the other. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U116	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U117	5. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. Associated with the previous one. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U118	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U119	6. - Mrs Regina Lochmele's proposal. Link... could say, not directly related, but similar, under various conditions... Associated with support for families with children, and intended for... The proposal also states that support is paid to a person whose child is enrolled in a higher education institution but has not reached the age of 20 and has not married. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U120	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U121	I would like to point out that the 6th proposal is not my proposal. And the 6th proposal, at least in the table I see, is with a completely different numbering. But if it is my proposal and the numbering in the table has been changed, I would like to say that I have tabled my proposals in terms of content in the hope that the ruling coalition will, however, listen to and support this proposal by correcting the injustices that have been allowed for young people under the age of 20 who continue to study at universities. Unfortunately, the money of the so-called helicopter in the amount of 500 euros for every child living in Latvia was linked to the cost of various benefits with one aim: to make this process easier for all officials, but it was this procedure, therefore, that the one-off allowance of 500 euros for the family allowance, also highlighted the injustice that is contained in other laws. In particular, because the state family allowance is paid to young people under 20 years of age who continue to receive vocational training in schools, schools, colleges, these children, regardless of whether they are working - employed, self-employed - or receive their schools, such as techniques, scholarships, this money - EUR 500 - was paid, but university students under 20 years of age remained without this one-off support for unknown reasons. On the platform ManaBalss.lv indignationed parents initiated the collection of signatures. More than 11 000 signatures were collected and this initiative has already been presented to the Saeima. You will still have to decide whether or not to support the popular proposal, or not, but today, the ruling coalition, you have the opportunity to support my proposal, thus correcting this error and injustice. Any reference to the fact that this is impossible because there are no databases, is absolutely foolish. The Saeima database contains an answer from Mrs Petravičs, where there is a specific figure on the number of such young people. They are about four and a half thousand students, and even a process solution was proposed for how this benefit could be obtained by a particular parent on the basis of an application, adding evidence that the child is actually studying at a university, that he, for example, is not employed or does not receive a scholarship. That is why I submitted three options. The first is the most liberal for these parents. Hence, there are no limits to reaching 20 years of age, and this young man is not married. But I expect that, however, the ruling coalition would have accepted the third option, which would... the second option, which limits this young person to not being employed or self-employed. And the third option imposes a third limit without employment, namely that he does not receive a grant, despite - I repeat - the machinery students who receive the grant have received this EUR 500 allowance. I know that the ruling coalition was ready to support my proposal, and thank Members Artus Kaiminas, Martin Stein, even Martin Bondar, who supported my proposal. I know that the 'no' resistance was solely from the New Unity and from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Zakatistov. I call on you, gentlemen, from the New Unity and also Ati Zakaistov, please think! It is still time that you could not even vote for my proposal now, but for the second version of my proposal, for the next or the most relentless option. Please! But fix it, please! You're gonna have to vote anyway.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U122	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U123	Colleagues! We also presented fuel once with our colleagues... I think that was probably the third time we presented another option. Like my colleague Regina, we are making various proposals for options, hoping that perhaps at some point this vote will prove positive. What I would like to add is... We understand, as my fellow Member has already said, that this decision will be taken early or late. And we see that its desire to support students is, but the problem is only in the opposition proposals. So there are also these different options, so there are also... We will also have the option. But I think we will continue to make proposals every week to make sure that we will probably get a positive vote at one point. This was the case for child benefits - EUR 500 - and that will be the case for student benefits. I call for support for this proposal or one of the next proposals so that we can move forward with the support of our citizens at this difficult moment. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U124	I closed the debate. Mrs. Indicice, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U125	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U126	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Mrs Regina Lochmele's proposal! Please vote mode! For - 27, for - 37, for - 15. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U127	7. - Mrs Regina Lochmele's proposal, too. Rule 63 will also be added. There is an additional restriction that the child has not entered into a marriage which was already in the past and that it is not an employee or self-employed person and, of course, has not reached the age of 20 to receive this support. This proposal was also not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U128	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U129	Looking at the results of the vote on my first proposal, however, I have the hope that at least one of the options will be supported, as very many Members abstained from the ruling coalition. This time, unfortunately, your abstention could prevent these young people from receiving this support. I would like to add that the cost of this proposal is about two million, on the condition that absolutely all students under the age of 20 will claim the benefit. I think that this is not such an amount, given the overall amount invested in the Latvian economy at this point in order to overcome the effects of Covid-19, which is over one billion. So the question of two million. And 4.5 thousand university students up to the age of 20. I know that the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Welfare and the Ministry of Finance point out that it is very difficult to grasp and find out who this benefit would be payable, because there are no such databases. I would like to point out that all the databases are in the hands of the ministries responsible. And there's an opportunity for our public administration to prove that even... minimal tasks we can do, however. Yes, we do not manage the planning of the vaccination process, because it affects the national scale, but maybe this time by combining the database of university students at the Ministry of Education and Science... You have such a database, don't you, Mr. Znotins? You're about to tell me about it... In turn, the State Revenue Service has a database of all self-employed persons and all employees, because they are subject to taxes. And, of course, the Ministry of Education and Science... if we are talking about my next proposal... definitely there is an opportunity to request from Latvian universities, which are supervised by the Ministry of Education and Science, information about whether a particular student receives or does not receive a scholarship. After all, you could ask from the parents who will submit applications for this benefit, all these statements. I know... I am sure that the parents who wish to receive this €500 allowance will prepare and submit to you themselves... will withdraw and submit any information that will help the public administration to resolve the problem and identify the number of persons to whom the benefit may be paid. So once again, proposal 2 is with the restriction that these young people under the age of 20 who study in higher education are not employed, are not employed or self-employed... Please support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U130	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U131	Hello, colleagues! I would like to remind you of all the support mechanisms that the Ministry of Education and Science has dedicated to students during the Coyd crisis. There has been a very wide-ranging discussion and offer from the Ministry of Education and Science. First of all, I want to emphasise higher education... student grants. The number of scholarships has reached - historically - the largest number in the history of the Republic of Latvia. This year the number of scholarships has increased by 741 scholarships, and the amount of the scholarship is doubled - from 99 euros to 200 euros. Such scholarships have never been available before. In addition, there is... in cooperation with the Ministry of Welfare... Socially disadvantaged students have the opportunity to apply and receive 200 euros by simply applying for... without working, doing nothing, simply presenting your status... receive a social grant when applying for services. And the third. There is an opportunity to work in higher education institutions through participation in scientific activities, research, which can still receive 200 euros, and (A sound defect.) ... These three mechanisms can also be combined. If a student is an excellent student with good luck, if he is socially disadvantaged and still willing to engage in research, then he can combine all three support mechanisms, and that's even more than 500 euros. Since this money has not been exhausted, I have tested it. It is therefore still due to students, and there is every opportunity to make use of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U132	The name of Member Regina Lochmele for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U133	Thank you very much to Mr Znotiņš because I hope that the information you have provided will help the Members of the ruling coalition to decide by voting in favour of my proposal or... this or next, where it is specifically about receiving a scholarship... as another restriction... Taking into account the numbers that have just been said, it happens that currently 1500 students receive scholarships from university students, from all five courses, because the number 741 was named... and that number has doubled, behold, but it's about all five courses. I am referring only to those young people who are up to 20 years of age, that is the first and second courses. Please, please, those students who receive their scholarships if you have all these data... also those who receive these EUR 200, because no one in our country can receive twice the benefits. It was also with a €500 allowance... and, for example, EUR 200 for children with disabilities or those who lost their parents and receive pensions... It's all absolutely... To be decided upon. You, the Ministry of Education and Science, should just have done more work together with the Ministry of Welfare to solve this problem, because there are students who would need this support... Not to mention that the social situation of their families was not assessed when granting a EUR 500 allowance to all children in Latvia. This is "helicopter money", there is a completely different approach. Just like you decided to pay EUR 200 to pensioners, despite the fact that maybe this pensioner receives several thousand euros of pensions... or only a hundred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U134	I closed the debate. Mrs. Indicice, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U135	The Commission did not support the 7th proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U136	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Mrs Regina Lochmele's proposal! Please vote mode! For - 26, for - 36, for - 13. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U137	8 / 8 - Mrs Regina Lochmele's proposal. Similar to the previous, but supplemented by another restrictive condition that the young person does not receive a grant from the state budget... and, of course, has not reached the age of 20, as before. This proposal was not supported by the Commission either.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U138	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U139	I know that my proposals were not supported for one reason: because the ruling coalition parties did not agree with each other this Monday, but I would like to point out to you that, as I said, more than 11 000 votes were collected on the ManaBals.lv platform for the initiative that students receive this EUR 500 - this one-time support from the state. And I repeat: at the moment you have a unique opportunity... Now... This proposal is the last one where you have the opportunity to vote in favour and to avoid having to debate not with me but with those who take the initiative, and to avoid you having to explain not to me as a politician, but to parents why you refused to give their children this opportunity, in order to discriminate and divide young people between 18 and 20 years of age in two groups - those who have not joined universities and those who have joined - and why technical and college and vocational students were granted this allowance without any restrictions, without checking whether these young people are self-employed, employed, married or receiving a scholarship in their techniques and so on, or... the social status or welfare status of their families. Nothing was assessed like that, but it was enough that they were university students... simply because the restriction is for unknown reasons. Please... Ministry of Welfare, why are you not making any amendments to the national family benefit law at all? Why is it enough to... A young person is enrolled in a university, and all of this, the family no longer receives a state family allowance? And this time it was the only reason they don't get 500 euros. This is your area of responsibility. The Ministry of Education and Science, once again I repeat to you: yes, you have support mechanisms, but the figures that are named cover the entire group of students. We're talking about the injustices... with a lump sum of EUR 500... first, second-year students, so young people under 20 years of age. Please support my proposal because, if you do not support it, this question will still be addressed again in the Saeima - when this initiative from MyaBalss.lv comes to the Saeima - and then you will have to answer before your parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U140	I closed the debate. Mrs. Indicice, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U141	The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U142	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - Mrs Regina Lochmele's proposal! Please vote mode! About - 28, against - 35, abstaining - 14. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U143	9. - the proposal by Member Stepanenko and Member Svekov, which provides for the payment of the aid... Support already discussed in the past - EUR 500... pay to a person who is dependent on an adult who has not attained the age of 21, if he or she has completed general, vocational or higher education. This proposal was not supported by the Commission either.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U144	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U145	Colleagues! I call on you to support this proposal, but if not, then, of course... I would like to inform you that we will continue to put this pressure, this positive pressure, on the coalition, and let us certainly wait for a positive vote on student support. This is far from the last time we have tabled such a proposal. Let's continue. Colleagues, I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U146	Mrs Indicice, on behalf of the Commission, would you like to add something else?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U147	The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U148	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - the motion submitted by Members Stepanenko and Svekov! Please vote mode! For - 26, for - 39, for - 10. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U149	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Member Lochmele, which lays down the arrangements for the payment of the non-assisted aid. Associated with the previous proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U150	Let us start a debate. This proposal is not put to the vote, but a debate is possible. The name of Member Regina Lochmele. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U151	I would like to make it clear that this and my two future proposals were related to previous proposals, which were unfortunately not supported. Thank you to those colleagues from the ruling coalition who have now at least abstained or voted. I appreciate your kind of... I support my proposal in the most easy way. Well, at least virtual. But... Unfortunately, the proposals are not put to the vote, but if you have time, please take a look, because I too... Like colleagues... I will continue to table this proposal. And these three proposals support precisely the procedure and describe the documents that would be needed to pay the parents of these young people a lump sum of EUR 500. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U152	I closed the debate. This proposal cannot be put to the vote because proposal 6 has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U153	11. - the proposal by Member Lochmele, which is also linked to the proposal which has not been supported in the past, and lays down the arrangements for the payment of the aid. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U154	This proposal, too, cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U155	12. - the proposal by Member Lochmele, which relates to a proposal which has not been approved in the past. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U156	Proposal No 12 should also be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U157	13. - the proposal made by Members Stepanenko and Sveciova, which also lays down the arrangements for the payment of aid, laid down in the previous proposal, which was not supported. This proposal is not supported by the Commission either.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U158	And also proposal 13 cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U159	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of Member Lochmele, which also lays down the procedure by which the State Social Insurance Agency would have acted. This proposal is also related to the previous proposal and was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U160	Yes, and thus 14. - the proposal by Member Lochmele is not put to the vote because we did not support proposals 6, 7 and 8 and we did not vote in favour of proposals 10, 11 and 12.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U161	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr Pimenova's proposal, which actually... The proposal provides that credit institutions shall not increase the interest rate on loans if the limitation of the Covid-19 spread has led to a deterioration in the creditworthiness of the borrower or in the value of the collateral. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U162	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U163	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, again! Sorry, there is a moratorium that has been developed by the Financial Sector Association - FNA - in cooperation with its members. This provides for bank customers, individuals with short-term financial difficulties caused by Covid-19, the possibility to defer payments of the principal amount of mortgage credit for up to 12 months, and leasing and consumer credit for up to six months. FNA also offers a moratorium on companies... This is the case for fixed repayment agreements. The repayment of the principal amount of the credit shall be deferred to the period specified in the moratorium... up to six months. During that period, the customer must continue to pay interest, insurance premiums and other payments specified in the loan agreement other than principal. In turn, financial institutions cannot claim additional collateral or raise the interest rate. It was announced in the media. What are the results of this moratorium? According to a survey of the members of the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry on the impact of Covid–19, the number of applicants for suspension of payment of the principal amount has decreased from 21 percent to 12 percent from March last year to March this year. Why? Why has the interest in re-crediting fallen rather than elevated? Entrepreneurs show that banks offering the deferral of payment of principal, although it was announced that interest rates would not increase, while raising interest rates, sometimes twice. This means that the company must agree to repay to the bank more than was stipulated in the credit agreement, accepting the terms of the moratorium offer. For small and medium-sized businesses, such conditions are often unacceptable. Note, moreover, that the change in the terms of the loan agreement must also be borne by the commission. In order to contribute to the improvement of the environment for small and medium-sized enterprises in the context of the Covid-19 spread and following the pandemic, I propose that the conditions for the restructuring of loans be eased and that credit institutions should not increase the interest rate on loans if the limitation of the Covid-19 spread has led to a deterioration in the creditworthiness of the borrower or the value of the collateral provided by it and the borrower's request not to raise the interest rate has been received. That is my proposal 15. I also propose that, if the terms of a loan agreement between a credit institution and a borrower that has deteriorated its creditworthiness as a result of the cap on the Covid-19 spread are amended, the Commission should not pay a fee for changing the terms of the loan agreement. That is my next proposal: the 16th. I call for support for proposals 15 and 16. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U164	I closed the debate. Mrs Indicice, on behalf of the Commission, would you like to add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U165	The Commission assessed this proposal and did not support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U166	Thank you. Please, call! We will vote in favour of 15. - Member Igora Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! For - 24, for - 53, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U167	16. - Member Pimenova's proposal. Provision shall be made for no transfer fee to be paid in cases where the loan agreement is amended as a result of the Covid-19 restriction on the spread... adverse effects. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U168	Debate... no, Members have not applied, but a vote has been requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - Igora Pimenova's proposal. Please vote mode! For - 22, for - 52, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U169	17. - Member Pimenova's proposal. Provision is made for the Cabinet to provide a lump sum allowance of 150 euros for employees and teachers of pre-school and special educational institutions. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U170	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U171	Dear colleagues, The employees and administration of pre-school and special education institutions were promised to grant a one-off allowance of EUR 300 for their work at the Covid–19. The government has directed more than six million euros for the grant of the one-off premium, but the amount of this bonus was set, including the employer's state social insurance contributions, so pre-school employees' hopes of receiving the promised 300 euros result in almost half the amount per hand, because employers were forced to deduct about 50 percent of the premium, including both the employer and the employee's tax share. In order to reduce the disappointment of pre-school staff and follow the invitation of the Latvian Education and Science Workers Trade Union to pay extra... make up... a lump sum allowance of EUR 150, which would compensate for the part of the premium paid in taxes, I propose that in the transitional provisions of the law, the Cabinet of Ministers provides a lump sum allowance of EUR 150, with personal income tax and compulsory state social insurance contributions, for teachers of pre-school institutions and special educational institutions, including assistants of teachers and persons providing education services at pre-school institutions and special educational institutions... This appropriation is intended to cover the cost of any adjustments to remuneration during the financial year in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No I call for my proposal to be supported. I believe that such action would be a step forward for those workers who actually make it possible for all workers to visit the workplace during the day and to participate in the work process, to do business at a time when their children are taken care of by children in kindergartens. They are our foundation right now. If we do not help them, we will hardly be at peace. Thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U172	I closed the debate. Mrs Indicice, would you like to add something else?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U173	Only that the Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U174	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - Member Igora Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! For - 22, for - 50, for - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U175	18. - the proposal of Members Stepanenko and Svekov. It provides for supplementing the transitional provisions of the law with a new point: “The Cabinet of Ministers shall, by 30 April 2021, develop a seasonal action plan (May, June, July, August), for the organisation of children and young people sports training processes, competitions and sports camps indoors and outdoors.” This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U176	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U177	Thank you. Colleagues! I ask you to support our proposal. And please for the following reasons. The distance learning process is already in practice throughout this school year. Our children and young people are in the distance learning process over a long period of time. Very limited opportunities were identified for outdoor sports activities. Very small groups, and also... taking into account the characteristics of several sports... Well, let's say, such as swimming or contact sports... such as aukido, taekondo and other forms of force struggle... they've been by nature for a long time... what is not professional sport is in a way that, in practice, in a ban mode, because... For example, swimming in the pool for those children who like swimming... They can't do that. We have repeatedly drawn attention to the fact that this is a problem. And it's a very important problem to keep children and young people not just physical fitness and... physical and sports... sports form, but also mental, physical and emotional health. We have repeatedly asked for a review... and, in strict compliance with the health protocol developed by athletes and sports organisations themselves, to re-establish children's and young people's sports activities. This has still not been done. Children and young people still have very limited access to sport. I became quite familiar with and analysed the presentation of the Ministry of Education and Science about the incidence in the municipalities where the field training process was authorised (about 40 municipalities during the investigation period), and these studies found that there was no correlation with the increase in the incidence of the disease, with the renewal of children training in these municipalities. What does that mean? The correlation was found overall... with a specific municipality... an outbreak of disease, but not in connection with the opening of the school and not in relation to the child... school visits. Consequently, I believe that, with restrictive measures, the negative side effects that arise from restrictive measures must also be weighed up. In particular, psychologists, psychiatrists, parents, and young people themselves... according to studies and surveys available to the public... anxiety. Our children suffer - they suffer from remote learning, they suffer from limited social opportunities, they suffer from sports opportunities. If we do not review this issue now, we will not discuss this issue and will not give the Cabinet of Ministers a really safe and thoughtful system of how our children can play sports during the holiday period (and immediately, the holiday will begin!) , we will once again lose time, we will not only harm our children, let us say so, the level of knowledge (the damage has certainly already been done in remote learning!) , but also mental and physical health. I therefore ask my colleagues to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U178	Dear Members and honourable Members, It's time for the next break. We will continue the debate on this proposal after a break. Two short statements. First. A joint meeting of the Saeima Presidium and the Fraces Council is held in part at 12.35. Consequently, access information has also been sent to all participants. Second statement. Member Kaspars Girgen has asked for a name. Please ensure that he/she can also apply electronically. Mr. Girgen, you can apply for the system. Yes, please, Mr. Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U179	Dear Members, ( A sound defect.) ... a group of Members will be formed - remotely - to support patients with rare diseases. The connection link has been sent to you all in the morning, from me personally, via e-mail. Please join this group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U180	Thank you. Both statements have been made. Only registration of the presence of Members. It's been a success. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U181	Dear colleagues, We keep sitting after the break. See the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 law on the control of the spread of infection”. We stayed at 18. - the proposal of Members Stepanenko and Svekov. And we shall continue the debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U182	Dear colleagues, We have fought tirelessly with you for children and youth sports. I understand that, probably in almost every sitting of the Saeima, we had either a proposal or a draft decision that the government should restore the activities of children and young people. Now, after the end of the emergency, we read these huge rules. 360, in which... I think there are many contradictions in these points too. And we conclude that nothing has really moved forward in terms of children's and young people's sports, and in terms of organising training. All the more, all the more! - If we're talking about competitions and camps. Because I think the calendar is available for each of us, we understand that summer comes already. Even from May it is necessary to start planning these sports classes and sports competitions, and sports camps. As long as there's no such plan... I think it is all the more a criminal act on the part of the government - to run everything in such a self-flow and to keep in the dark still sports coaches, children's parents, children. We will, of course, never get tired of reminding you of the very great harm this government has done to children by Karina, the indecision and indecision of this government. We have talked about this and we will talk about it, as long as you, honourable colleagues from the coalition, do not affect government ministers or make them change their opinion. As many children and youth enemies as they are in the government today are likely never before. And the fact that these people do not understand what they do to children shows that they are absolutely not interested in the further development of children. Clearly, they are concerned about their children. That's what we said once. I therefore call on those colleagues in the coalition who have followed these events more or less wisely and who have been in contact with sports coaches themselves and have understood this problem - to support this current task for the Cabinet in the hope that the Cabinet of Ministers will carry out both the tasks that the Saeima has already assigned but which are still not fulfilled, and this one too. Perhaps we will succeed - together with you, honourable colleagues from the coalition - in making children, young people, their elders and sports coaches listen. This problem must be solved as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, I call for our proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U183	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U184	Colleagues! On the one hand, the opposition can also be agreed. In the past, we from the New Conservative Party have also voted in favour of the Cabinet of Ministers laying down very specific rules, as this, let us say, live sport... face-to-face different sports can happen. What we have done on the part of the Ministry of Education and Science is, as I said before, very... practically every week, going to the Ministry of Health and offering various options with various epidemiological safety indicators - 25 square meters per person... and other options to be able to resume sports as soon as possible and to renew gyms also in those sports where this is necessary, such as basketball, hockey and others. What has been achieved and what we presented last week... I'm sorry, we also presented this week to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science... There is 2.2 million support for sports camps. So from the Ministry of Education and Science it will be in addition to municipal programmes that provide camps. And this is more about day camps (i.e. day-long camps), but the total number of these extra 2.2 million covered is large enough to give them a sense of feeling... help children feel contact and also engage in these sports, which, unfortunately, has had to be left behind for a while. In addition, we are constantly talking to the Ministry of Health about these indicators and possible... Well, measurements of how many people could be in groups, and one of the options that we are now... We hope that at least 10 people in groups could sport in these summer camps. Hopefully, this situation will not change to the bad side... in any case, at least growing for vaccination and other, of course, things... Hopefully, we will be able to organise these camps fully in at least 10 groups during the summer. Thank you, colleagues... Since the Cabinet is working, it is working very actively. This is a serious problem that the opposition is talking about and one of the main priorities for the Ministry of Education and Science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U185	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U186	Thank you. Mr. Znotins! It is good that the money is intended, but you can also read that these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers contain a point that determines that children's camps are being stopped, and this point is still valid, it has not been changed. More than that. If you have now named a criterion that you are fighting for, these criteria must be incorporated and the Cabinet of Ministers must do so. The fact that the money is intended for camps, which may not happen at all, is not right. If the money is intended, it is very good, then the criteria for these camps and the plan must be drawn up now. We call on you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U187	I closed the debate. Mrs Indicice, please, on behalf of the Commission, what will you say?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U188	The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U189	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. - the motion of Members Stepanenko and Svekov! Please, let's vote! For - 29, for - 35, for - 9. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U190	19. - the proposal of Members Stepanenko and Svekov. It is planned to supplement the transitional provisions with a new point by ordering the Cabinet of Ministers to develop a seasonal action plan for May, June, July and August of children and young people education, music, dance and singing camps indoors and outdoors until 30 April 2021. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U191	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U192	Yes, colleagues, we have now seen the UKP as a big sports friend subject to Karin's dictatorship! We really saw that. Now we will see how big KIPs are children's and young people's education friends. If we can read the news that Mrs Šuplinska has won an authorisation to organise a song and dance festival for children and young people this year, then, in my opinion, it is rather illogical to deny children in this camp both indoors and outdoors. What you have now laid down in the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers is, of course, an ongoing ridicule about children. Again masks - both indoors and outdoors, all events! And the most vital thing you've still been in this regulation is that you're kidding: remote lessons. I don't know if any of you ever tried to learn a musical instrument remotely or - even more! - Dance. Probably not. You probably think it's perfectly normal to make children learn all these movements, sounds and also singing for a year! If you believe that our new generation will develop as before... After such injury, say, the damage you have done... I think no, because children, young people will need help, will need encouragement after this traumatic one-year experience, when children simply spend part of their classes crying because they don't get there. No teacher can come and show them how to hold your hand correctly or how to play the instrument correctly. There's a lot of nuance that really kids miss in this... so-called pandemic. What you want to go on... You want to just create a big event next to the hockey championship now... another song and dance festival, of course, because I understand that you have certainly agreed on some kind of... maybe also the service providers are at the bottom, everything is... The business plan is ready, and it is only of interest to you, but children and young people's individual classes and camps, which may not be linked to the song festival - they will, of course, not happen because they are not interesting to you. That's your logic, honourable colleagues and honored UK... and members of the New Unity. I call on you to support this proposal. More than that. If you support the organisation of pupils' song and dance festivals this year, then I think it is not only illogical, it is even criminal - to prevent other children from taking the same classes in the summer. I call on you to support this proposal! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U193	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U194	Thank you. It is certainly very positive to provide additional funding to municipalities for sports and children's camps, but it is equally important to provide an understandable system for children to resume their leisure activities. Parents and educators and children themselves - they raise anxiety. Both children and parents are tired - tired of continuing strict conditions, tired of being unable to socialise, tired of still not ensuring a normal vaccination process, and thus delaying normal... the return of society to a normal, active social life and thus to the provision of education for children. We have all done damage to children all this year, demanding practically only a remote learning process. The quality of the training is rather complicated and trends are likely to deteriorate. Tests and survey results show that 55 percent of the students surveyed believe that they will not be able to pass the test. All of this is due to the system that we have together with you, fellow Members, and which we are making respect for both educators, children and parents. It leaves serious and perhaps even inevitable consequences for children's psyche, health and, consequently, competitiveness in the future over a long period of time. This must be understood and mechanisms must be put in place to reduce it or restore it to a state that could have been in the absence of these restrictions imposed by the State on children and parents and on education of interests. Interest education is an essential part of children's development, competitiveness and also socialisation. It happens that we have digital technologies and epidemiological requirements that outweigh any other problems, minus and damage caused by the strict degree of compliance with epidemiological requirements. I believe that any measures relating to epidemiological safety should be weighed against other, perhaps even more harmful, consequences of complying with these restrictions, and I believe that a thoughtful, clear and understandable system - the education of children's interests - is an instrument that can reduce harm and restore the mental, emotional and social health of children. I therefore ask my colleagues to support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U195	I closed the debate. Mrs. Indicice, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U196	On behalf of the Commission, I can point out that this proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U197	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - the motion of Members Stepanenko and Svekov! Please, let's vote! About - 30, against - 35, abstaining - 11. The proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U198	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The law shall enter into force on the day following its publication. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U199	And Members also support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U200	The draft law is supported by the Commission. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the draft law to be supported at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U201	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection” in the second, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Education Law”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Anita Muižniece. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U202	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” (No. 1028/Lp13) before the second, final, reading. I would remind you that this draft law is related to the amendments adopted last week in the Law on Higher Education, which were made in connection with the decision of the Constitutional Court on... 12. Amendments adopted by the Saeima in Article 56 do not comply with the Constitution. At the meeting of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science on 14 April, three proposals were considered for this draft law. 1. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It is envisaged to replace in the introductory part of the third paragraph of Article 17 the words ‘the municipality of the Republic and the municipality of the municipality’ with the words ‘the municipality’. The proposal is of a technical nature and involves changes previously made to the Law on Administrative Areas and Populations and therefore the same changes should be made to this Law. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U203	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U204	2. - a proposal from the Commission on Education, Culture and Science. Similar in nature, technical. Article 18 provides for the replacement of the words ‘city and municipality of the Republic’ by ‘municipality’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U205	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U206	Hello, colleagues! I support the proposal. I have only one question for the applicants: why last time we voted in a law that said "city of national importance", there is once again a "city of republics", as the rapporteur said. Why not use "national towns"? We can not use this Soviet name. It's just a small excuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U207	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mrs Muižniece, what will you explain?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U208	On behalf of the Commission, I repeat that in the title, the words ‘city and municipality of the Republic’ are replaced by ‘municipality’. The law will not make use of the word link of “republikas miestas”. Once again, the proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U209	Thank you for your explanation. And Members also support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U210	Yes, and 3. - final - a proposal from the Legal Bureau. It encourages the establishment of a precise date for the entry into force of the law, i.e. 1 May of this year. This proposal is clarified in view of the fact that both the amendments to this law and the already adopted amendments to the Law on Higher Education should enter into force at the same time. The Commission supported this proposal. I also invite you to support the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U211	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Kucin. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U212	Hello, colleagues! I would remind you that the original version of the amendment to the Education Act was directly related to the conflict of norms created by the amendment to the Law on Higher Education. And regretfully, when the Saeima adopted amendments to the Law on Higher Education, it has not been possible to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Court, but on the contrary - in the legislative procedure, the legislator demonstrated disrespect for the Constitutional Court. The mutual respect of branches of state power is the basis for the existence of a legal and democratic state. No one, even the legislator, should consider himself higher than the Constitution. SASKAJA Members requested the President of Latvia to exercise his rights and to request a re-reading of the law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”. And since the amendments to the Education Law are related to the amendments to the Law on Higher Education, I call on Members of the Saeima not to support the amendments to the Education Law either. I call for a 'no' vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U213	Ma'am, do you... Is that so? I closed the debate. Mrs. Muižniece, will you explain what on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U214	There will be nothing to add. I would remind you that the Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U215	Thank you. The debate is closed and we now have a vote before us. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - The Legal Bureau's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U216	Thank you. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the second, final reading of the draft law on amendments to the Education Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U217	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Education Act at second, final, final reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about 64, it's against 19, it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U218	Good afternoon, colleagues! At third reading, we will consider draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law” (No. 574/Lp13). I would remind you that the draft law was drafted by the Ministry of Economics and its aim is to establish a clear division of responsibility in the construction process between the participants of the construction process, to define the responsibility of the contracting entity, to strengthen the competence of the local government building board and the State Construction Control Bureau. Eight proposals were received to the third reading. 1. - The proposal by Miezaiņš, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. It provides for clarification of the term ‘participant in the construction process’. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U219	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U220	Two more. - The proposal by Miezaiņš, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. It shall be provided that the institution performing the functions of the construction board shall also have the right to revoke acceptance of the construction intention or mark in the construction permit regarding the fulfilment of the conditions set out therein or to instruct the proposed construction company to remedy the identified non-compliances. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U221	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U222	3. - The proposal by Miezaiņš, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. It is envisaged to specify the conditions for the issue of authorisations, endorsements and adaptation by default. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U223	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U224	4. - The proposal by Miezaiņš, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. It is envisaged to clarify the responsibilities and responsibilities of other actors in the construction process. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U225	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U226	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Provision shall be made for editorial corrections to the part on the responsibilities and responsibilities of the participants in the construction process. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U227	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U228	6. - The proposal by Miezaiņš, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. Editable. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U229	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U230	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's also editorial. And the Commission is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U231	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U232	8 / 8 - The proposal by Miezaiņš, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. It shall be editorial and shall change the time limits for entry into force. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U233	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U234	I call for support for the draft law on Amendments to the Construction Law, third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U235	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law” in the third, final, reading! Please, let's vote! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Act on Service Pensions for Military Persons’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Ieva Krapāne. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U236	Hello, colleagues! The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Service Pensions for Military Persons”. The purpose of the draft law is to determine the termination of the cost of service of a military person if the person committed an intentional offence during military service but was punished after his leave from professional service, regardless of the deletion or removal of the sentence. Four proposals have been received for the third reading. 1. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U237	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U238	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Partly supported and included 1. - the proposal drawn up by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U239	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U240	3. - a proposal from the Minister of Defence. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U241	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U242	And 4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U243	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U244	On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, please support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U245	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Act on Service Pensions for Military Persons in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Consumer Protection”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U246	Hello! The draft law on consumer protection law prepared by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy for the third reading is therefore under consideration. One proposal was received. It is a proposal from the Legal Office. The time of entry into force of the law, which would be at the same time under the Segtu bond law, shall be determined. This was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U247	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U248	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call for support to be given to the third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U249	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on consumer protection law in the third, final, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendment to law on legal cooperation and the protection of the rights of individuals during the transitional period following the withdrawal from the European Union of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U250	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, In its meeting, the Foreign Affairs Commission examined draft law “Amendment to the law on legal cooperation and the protection of individuals’ rights during the transitional period following the withdrawal from the European Union of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland” at third reading. No proposals were received for the third reading. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U251	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the law on legal cooperation and the protection of individuals’ rights during the transitional period following the withdrawal from the European Union of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland” at the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. The first reading of the draft law “On disposal of part of real estate in Rūsiņa iela 1, Riga – construction of the European Standard Width 1435 mm railway line in the Rail Baltica corridor through Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania” project. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U252	Hello, colleagues! During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 6 April, the draft law “On disposal of part of real estate at Rūsiņa iela 1, Riga – for the implementation of the project “Construction of the European Standard Width 1435 mm railway line in “Rail Baltica” corridor through Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania”” (No. 938/Lp13). For the implementation of the project “Construction of the European Standard Width 1435 mm railway line in the Rail Baltica corridor through Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania” it is necessary to dispose of real estate at Rūsiņa iela 1, Riga (cadastra Nr. (Cadastral designation 01000400127) in an area of 0,0005 ha. The real estate part is disposed of for the development of infrastructure related to the construction of railway transport infrastructure and disposal is the only way to achieve this objective. According to the records of the Landbook regarding real estate at Rūsiņa iela 1, Riga, the right of pledge has been registered, mortgage has been secured and the mark on the taking of recovery has been entered. A person in favour of whom a pledge right has been secured in respect of immovable property shall be informed about the disposal of a part of immovable property in accordance with Section 18(1) of the Law on the Sale of Real Estate required for the needs of the Company. Information has also been sent to the enforcer of recovery proceedings – an sworn bailiff. On May 29, 2020, the limited liability company “European Railway Lines” sent a notice to the owner of real estate Rūsiņa iela 1, Riga, with an invitation to announce the possibility to conclude an agreement on voluntary disposal of part of real estate and give its consent to the cadastral measurement of real estate, as well as asked to agree with the person for whom the mortgage right has been strengthened in favour of the real estate, for the distribution of the remuneration and to carry out the necessary actions for the cancellation of the recovery mark recorded in the Land Register. The recovery note in the land register shall contain a prohibition on the disposal of immovable property. Recovery mark prevents any voluntary reinforcement by the owner, with the exception of the marks provided for in Section 45(6) and (7) of the Land Register Law. The notification was also sent to the person for whom the right of pledge has been established in favour of the immovable property and to the enforcer of the recovery process – an sworn bailiff. After the transmission of the aforementioned notice, no reply from the owner of real estate Rūsiņa iela 1, Riga, within the time limit set by the Law on the Sale of Real Estate necessary for the needs of the Company, has been received. The representative of “European Railway Line” has met with representatives of the owner of real estate Rūsiņa iela 1, Riga. During the meeting, the representatives informed that they did not object to the disposal of the real estate part, but that after several telephone conversations with the representatives of the company no action was taken aimed at concluding the agreement on the voluntary disposal of the real estate part. Taking into account that the owner of real estate at Rūsiņa iela 1, Riga, within the time limit set by the Law on the Expropriation of Real Estate necessary for the needs of the Company, has not provided a response to the sent notifications, as well as the agreement on the voluntary expropriation of real estate has not been concluded, moreover, the land unit is necessary for construction works in April 2021, the established preconditions for consideration of the draft law on forced expropriation of real estate part for public needs in the Saeima have been met. The benefit that the company will gain by imposing restrictions on the fundamental rights of the owner of real estate Rūsiņa iela 1, Riga, is greater than the damage caused to the interests of the individual, because in this case, this part of real estate is necessary for the achievement of specific public interests and public objectives - construction of railway transport infrastructure and related infrastructure, which ensures the integration of Latvia into the railway system of the European Union, promoting the development of the Latvian economy, as well as ensuring the mobility of the population and accessibility of the well-defined environment. The Legal Commission has supported the draft law for first reading. I also call on my colleagues to support them.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U253	Thank you. Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On disposal of part of real estate in Rūsiņa Street 1, Riga – for the implementation of the project “Construction of the European Standard Width 1435 mm railway line in the Rail Baltica corridor through Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania””! Please, let's vote! For - 64, for - no, for - 14. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U254	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be one week, or until 22 April of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U255	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 22 April this year. Draft law “On disposal of the part of real estate in Vilkupurva Street 26, Riga – construction of the European Standard Width 1435 mm railway line in “Rail Baltica” corridor through Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania” – first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U256	During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 6 April, the draft law “On disposal of part of real estate at Vilkupurva iela 26, Riga, for public needs – construction of a European standard line “Rail Baltica” in the corridor of “Rail Baltica” through Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania” (No. 954/Lp13). For the implementation of the project “Construction of the European Standard Width 1435 mm railway line in the Rail Baltica corridor through Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania” it is necessary to dispose of real estate at Vilkupurva Street 26, Riga (real estate cadastre No. the part of the unit of land (Cadastral designation 01000820210) in the area of 0,1938 hectares. The real estate part is disposed of for the development of infrastructure related to the construction of railway transport infrastructure and disposal is the only way to achieve this objective. According to the Land Register records, in respect of immovable property, the ticking of the recovery has been recorded. Information about the alienation of immovable property has also been sent to drivers and enforcers of recovery process – sworn bailiffs. On the basis of Article 9 of the Law on the Expropriation of Real Estate required for the needs of the Company and Article 9 of the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation of 15 March 2011 No. Point 204 point 36.1. The Ministry of Transport approved by decision of 27 March 2020 the amount of fair remuneration for real estate at Vilkupurva Street 26, Riga, the part of the land unit in the area of 0,1938 hectares, which, after measuring the cadastral value, can be clarified by setting the amount of remuneration - 23 973.06 EUR or 12.37 EUR per square metre. The owner has not agreed to the amount of remuneration calculated, nor has he exercised the right to challenge the amount of remuneration established by the institution for the disposal of immovable property necessary for the needs of the Company. On 8 July 2020 the limited liability company “European Railway Lines” sent a notification to the owner of real estate according to Article 11 of the Law on the Sale of Real Estate required for the needs of the Company with an invitation to notify within 30 days of the receipt of the notification about the possibility to conclude an agreement on the voluntary disposal of real estate and to give consent to the cadastral measurement of the immovable property, as well as requested to take the necessary actions for the deletion of the recovery notes recorded in the land register, as in accordance with subparagraph 1 of the first paragraph of Article 601 and paragraph 2 of Article 600 of the Law on Civil Procedure, the recovery note in the land register contains a prohibition on the disposal of real estate. Section 46(1) of the Land Registers Act provides that recovery mark prevents any voluntary reinforcement by the owner, with the exception of the marks provided for in paragraphs 6 and 7 of Article 45. Upon the transmission of the said notification within the period specified by the Law on the Sale of Real Estate required for the needs of the Company, no response to the transmitted notification has been received from the owner of the real estate. ‘ On 21 September 2020, the representatives of the real estate owners of the European Railway Line were asked to provide information on the follow-up to the ‘European Railway Line’ notice of 8 July 2020 on the possibility of concluding a purchase contract for the voluntary disposal of real estate. No reply was received within the deadline set by 25 September 2020. ‘ On 23 October 2020, the European Railway Lines’ sent a Communication with a renewed call for notification of the possibility of concluding a contract for the voluntary disposal of immovable property within seven days of receipt of the notification. Even after a repeated notification, the owner of the real estate has not replied. ‘ European railway lines’ met with representatives of the owner of the real estate. During the meeting, the representatives informed that they did not agree with the disposal of the real estate because the amount of the fixed compensation for the land units located at 23 Vilkupurva Street is not satisfied (cadastra Nr. 01000820210) in the case of disposal of the part of the area of 0,1938 hectares. During the meeting, the representatives asked for consideration to be given to the possibility of using another form of equitable remuneration by offering other equivalent real estate. ‘ By e-mail of 21 and 24 September 2020, the European Railway Lines sent a list of the real estate of the State and the municipality, which, according to Section 26(1)(1) and (2) of the Law on the disposal of real estate necessary for the needs of the Company, could be considered as another form of compensation for equitable remuneration. No reply was received to these letters. Taking into account that the owner of real estate necessary for the needs of the Company has not submitted a response to the sent notifications within the time limit set by the Law on the Disposal of Real Estate, as well as the agreement on the voluntary disposal of real estate has not been concluded, the conditions laid down in Article 13 of the Law on the Expropriation of Real Estate necessary for the needs of the Company for the consideration of the draft law on forced disposal of immovable property for the needs of the company in the Saeima have been fulfilled. The benefit that the company will gain by imposing restrictions on the fundamental rights of the owner of the real estate Vilkupurva iela 26, Riga, is greater than the damage caused to the individual's interests, because in this case, the real estate is necessary to achieve specific public interests and public objectives for the construction of railway transport infrastructure, which will ensure the integration of Latvia into the European Union rail system by promoting mobility of Latvian citizens and economic development. The Legal Commission has supported the draft law for the first reading, and I call on colleagues to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U257	Thank you. Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On disposal of part of real estate at Vilkupurva Street 26, Riga – for the implementation of the project “Construction of the European Standard Width 1435 mm railway line in “Rail Baltica” corridor through Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania”” at first reading! Please, let's vote! For - 61, for - 1, for - 15. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U258	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be one week, or until 22 April of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U259	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 22 April this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Saeima Election Law”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Viktors Valainis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U260	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Saeima Election Law” (No. 963/Lp13). This draft law is a draft law drawn up by Members, which, in essence, provides that Latvians living abroad will be able to choose to vote for the electoral district from which they left - be it Latgale or Kurzeme, Zemgale, Vidzeme. The current system provides that Latvians living abroad can participate in the Saeima elections, but this voice goes only to Riga electoral district. At the time that this system was established, they were only one or two mandates, now they have many more mandates. In order to ensure proportionality and to be in line with the current situation (people not only have left Riga, but also from Zemgale, Latgale and other regions), this allocation of mandates should be more even. In the Commission we dealt with this issue, there was a wide-ranging debate. I would remind you that this question has already been in the Saeima for the second time for the first reading. Last time this issue had constitutional risks that have been eliminated in this draft law regarding the maximum number of Members who may have been elected from Riga. The Commission had a wide-ranging debate involving experts and the Commission voted, by a majority vote, to support this draft law at first, conceptual, reading, so that it could continue its work on the texts for second and third reading. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U261	Thank you. Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Saeima Election Law at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals. ( A sound defect.) Mr Valaiņš, please set a deadline for the proposals!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U262	Proposals deadline - one month, May 15.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U263	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 15 May this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ralph Nemiro. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U264	Dear President, So we are working on the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection" (No. 744/Lp13). I would remind you that this draft law relates to the Consumer Centre and additional functions related to the protection of the collective interests of consumers. We have received 27 proposals for a draft law. Let's go through them in sequence. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is legal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U265	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U266	Thank you. I will make proposals 2, 3, 4 and 5 at the same time. So two. - a proposal from the Legal Office, 3. - the proposal by Member Gats Eglitis, and 4. - the proposal from Minister for Welfare Ramon Petravič. These proposals relate more to the receipt of data from the State Social Insurance Agency and further transfer to the credit information offices. 2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U267	We have every one of these proposals... To say so, support must be given. So Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U268	Thank you. 3. - The proposal from Member Gats Eglitis. Partly supported and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U269	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U270	4. - the proposal from Minister for Welfare Ramon Petravič. Also partially supported and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U271	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U272	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U273	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U274	Proposals 6, 7 and 8. I will also say something about them in general. In this case, they shall lay down the procedure for determining information to the State Social Insurance Agency through the Cabinet of Ministers. 6. - The proposal from Member Gats Eglitis. Partly supported and included 8. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U275	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U276	7. - the proposal from Minister for Welfare Ramon Petravič. Also partially supported and included 8. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U277	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U278	8 / 8 - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U279	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U280	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Legally editorial. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U281	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U282	Thank you. 10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The text is also legal. The Commission is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U283	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U284	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The text is also legal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U285	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U286	Just like 12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Legally editorial. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U287	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U288	13. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics Jurģis Miezaiņš. It is established that the examination of a dispute in the event of a need for collective protection... are examined before the Consumer Rights Centre in the Consumer Dispute Resolution Commission set up separately. This dispute does not require any further specific submission. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U289	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U290	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Legally editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U291	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U292	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics Jurģis Miezaiņš. Article 13 of the draft law provides for the replacement of the words ‘five’ by ‘ten’ in the fourth paragraph of Article 2612 of the law. This proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U293	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U294	16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Legally editorial. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U295	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U296	17. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. Legally editorial. The Commission is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U297	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U298	18. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. Legally editorial. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U299	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U300	19. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics Jurģis Miezaiņš. Clearly, it's... The decisions provided for in paragraph 5 may be taken not only by the Consumer Centre, but also by the Health Inspectorate. These issues relate more to the protection of collective interests in the case of trade... including medicinal products. This proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U301	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U302	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics Jurģis Miezaiņš. Associated with the themes in the 19th proposal. That is why it is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U303	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U304	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editatively legal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U305	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U306	22. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editatively legal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U307	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U308	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. Legally editorial. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U309	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U310	Just like 24. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Legally editorial proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U311	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U312	25. - The proposal from Member Gats Eglitis. The time limit shall be set for the Cabinet of Ministers to issue the regulations provided for in Section 8.1 of this Law until 31 December 2021. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U313	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U314	26. - The proposal from Member Gats Eglitis. Time limits are also set. Consequently, it is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U315	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U316	27. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics Jurģis Miezaiņš. Also lays down time limits for drafting regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U317	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U318	Colleagues, we have therefore examined all 27 proposals. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U319	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection". Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U320	Dear colleagues, the deadline for tabling proposals for the third reading is 22 April this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U321	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 22 April this year. On the agenda - the third title: Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision “On Release of the Judge of Daugavpils Rita Chair of the Court of Justice from the position of a judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U322	Dear colleagues, On 24 March of this year, the Council for the Judiciary, on the basis of paragraph 1.1 of Section 81 and paragraph 3 of Paragraph One of Section 82 of the Law “On Judicial Power”, decided to propose to the Saeima to release Rita Chair of Daugavpils Court from office due to health condition. During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 6 April, the draft decision “On Dismissing Rita Chair of the Judge of Daugavpils from the position of a judge” was reviewed. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I am calling to release the Judge of Daugavpils Rita Chair from the office of the judge due to the state of health. Thank you very much to the judge for her work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U323	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Release of the Judge of Daugavpils Rita Chair of the Court from the position of a judge”! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Draft decision on distrust to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš. Applicants - Members Aldis Gobzems, Julija Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Viktors Valainis, Armands Krauze, Edgars Tavars, Uldis Augulis, Lubova Švecova, Jānis Dūklavs, Janīna Jalinska. On behalf of the applicants, Member Aldis Gobzems. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U324	Hello, fellow Members, again! So today we are dealing with Mr Kariņš's request for resignation. I have a request for colleagues. I think there is nothing to cool down here, and there is nothing to debate long. Everyone is clear about Mr. Kariņš: he has to resign. Why do I ask you, too, not to engage in a long debate on this issue? I have a child to go to school after. Let us release him quickly and make a new government. I think the country will be better off. But the main idea, which must be repeated several times and for all, is – Kariņš, as Head of Government, is responsible for absolutely all the failures of the Cabinet of Ministers. To all! Let's start in a row. Medical wages. The Cabinet of Ministers has not complied with the decisions taken by the Saeima or with the laws adopted by the Saeima. OIC. Karin has not made his own government declaration. And what he had promised he would cancel OIC has not even begun to do. Disruption of the financial sector - "capital repairs" of the financial sector. Uncontrolled financial intelligence terror that takes place in the country. The result is hopelessly behind us and we are with a relentless Baltic poorest country, thanks to Mr Kariņš, the Cabinet of Ministers under his leadership. The health sector. Complete maturity. There is no uniform standard for non-virus treatment... High mortality compared to other countries shows that the primary healthcare system is completely unfinished. We're not ready everywhere. Vaccination: I think that we do not need to repeat how we bought vaccines, or rather do not buy vaccines. But now there are vaccines, there are vaccinees, there are places where to vaccinate, and there are even a few dozens to vaccinate, but the vaccination itself does not take place. Even the President of Latvia refuses to vaccinate with a pot which the ministers of this government want to buy from countries that also refuse. We are collecting everything that we do not need in Europe. Old armoured technicians, no unnecessary and unwanted vaccines and in such a spirit. Second-class laundry powder including: The Head of Government is responsible for vaccination, vaccines, vaccination office and disproportionate expenditure. Education. I understand, of course, Mr. Kariņš, because his education is questionable in my view, but education in Latvia during the government of Kariņš shows the following picture: total incapacity for distance learning. In fact, they only happen in better-situated families and in the best schools in Riga, which in most cases are paid schools. In other cases, children study at a maximum of 10 to 20 percent of school time. This is the broadest step towards even greater poverty. Mr Kariņš makes our country poorer in all areas. All of them. Starting with education, continuing with the financial sector and so on. Let's go ahead. There are no plans in the education system for the resumption of training this September. Mr Kariņš has not even asked the Minister for Education and Science to present such a plan to society. There'll be Ligo right now. We don't show eggs anymore. There'll be Ligo right now. Home affairs. The increase in crime and the completely debilitating home system, which cannot and will not be able to cope with it all. We see this in the latest events that have taken place yesterday. And not just. Restrictions. Economics and human destiny. Deteriorated restrictions. Reloaded, virus safe trolleybuses, underground hairdressers and a ban on buying underwear - this is the intelligence flight in which Prime Minister Kariņš is located. Organisation of work. Kariņš does not lead the Cabinet of Ministers, he is only moderating the discussion. He's a moderator. He's not even a press secretary. Weak and incompetent. He heads the Cabinet of Ministers, where the Minister for Agriculture has disappeared, the Minister for the Economy has disappeared, the Minister for Culture has disappeared, the Minister for Education and Science has disappeared, the Minister for Welfare has achieved the greatest achievement for a child of EUR 500. And it's over. ‘ 3 × 500’ and everything else... I won't talk about it, it's perhaps not Karini's responsibility, but we don't live in prosperity, we live in increasing poverty. This is always the responsibility of the Head of Government. And now, too, this one. How can it happen that over the course of the year, there's already some order murder... with all the community restrictions, closed borders, planes where we invest 500 or how many millions of them there to fly to airports other than our own? How can it be that, with these restrictions, Russian or any other gangs, like their own homes, do so that 18 hours or more of the crime - crime vehicle would be three kilometres away from the main police building? And no policeman even knows how to look. Mr Kariņš had to ask the Minister of the Interior for this morning for such information. If he were a head of government and wouldn't be a modulator of government sittings. What conclusions has the Head of Government asked the Minister of the Interior about the work of the State Police and about the work of the Minister of the Interior? And what has this system done at that time? I think Terehov's entire border point was detained there. State Police Vidzeme Regional Administration... organized crime... the Head of Division is detained in Estonia for smuggling. And the Karin is silent. Zero reactions. Does it lead the government? Mr. Kariņš, the Minister for Health is unable to ensure that people have access to healthcare. He is only able to provide the head of the vaccination office with a high wage and vaccination newspaper, which does not even really fuel the fireplace. Vaccines are purchased or not purchased through WhatsApp Minister Viņķelis. Mr. Karins, this happened during your government too. And you are also responsible for this. You are precisely your lack of interest, your indifference is why we have to buy a second-class product from Denmark, not the best we could buy. And, you know, Mr Kariņš, I have such a silent suspicion that the anti-corruption monitoring office has, in this case, not very well observed corruption in this area, in the area of the purchase of vaccines where their vaccines are distributed by your party, Mr Kariņš, either a member or a candidate Member, for whom we have spoken at other sittings of the Saeima. There is no reorganization of the education system or the police in such a way as to reveal the murder of orders... So that children can learn at school and play sports. On sport, Mr. Kariņš, we can only say one thing. Neither have you done the decision of the Saeima there. Failure to comply with decisions of the Saeima shall constitute failure to act of an official. Inaction by an official to cause harm to society shall be punishable. This is the case under the Criminal Law. You have not complied not only with your government declaration, but the decision of the Saeima to repeal the OIC, the decision of the Saeima on medical salaries, the decision of the Saeima on children and youth sports and other decisions of the Saeima. Failure to comply with these decisions has caused substantial material and emotional damage to society, measured in millions and perhaps even billions. And I hope, Mr. Kariņš, that one day, as in other countries, one Prime Minister will sit on the accused's bench for his failure to act one day. Mr. Kariņš, you should have noticed, as Prime Minister, that the Minister of Education and Science may be empty straw from the beginning and nothing has changed. If you were the Head of Government, you should change her. You didn't just do it for one reason. Not because of children's education and children's health, but only to maintain their position. This is not the Cabinet of Ministers, which we are talking about and which is supposedly led, but in fact moderated by Krišjānis Kariņš, it is a traveling circus with a rabbit at the head of Rogers - a cowardly, unable and incompetent premiere. Prime Minister, who does not care about Latvia. Prime Minister, who does not care about the people of Latvia. Prime Minister, who does not care about Latvian entrepreneurs, but who may be interested in other countries' interests. The interests of the countries from which this Prime Minister has come. I call on Members to support Mr Kariņš's resignation, and this time I will not talk an hour as it was the last time I asked for the resignation, because everything is clear to everyone. This government is not holding up to deal with the crisis; this government is holding up to get the benefits. That is why I am addressing today, particularly in the context of Kariņš' depression, the Members of the New Conservative Party, who today, with their lips on their lips, allegedly defended the restriction of gambling in the country and, very loudly, the government. Members of the JPY! This is the moment of truth. This is the moment of truth as to whether you are truly against gambling, which is protected by Mr Kariņš's government, or not - not your vote in the specific draft law, but the vote here. I would also like to turn to the ZZS and Mr Taipara in particular. I heard it this morning that I had made a variety of offers. Mr Tawar, if there have been such offers, must go to the appropriate bodies and name those people who have made these offers in order to preserve Karina's government. You will gain huge popularity, your rating will rise and the whole country will gain. I think we can... and we need a new government. We can release this and create a new one, because it deserves our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U325	Dear colleagues, Member Valery Agešin has applied for the debate, but we have seven minutes to break. Mr. Ageshin, would it be enough for you to have seven minutes, please?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U326	I'll do it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U327	Thank you. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U328	Dear colleagues, Prime Minister and Politically Responsible to the Saeima. In order for the government to fulfil its responsibilities, it needs the confidence of the Saeima, but what faith can be there for politicians who spoke one before the elections, but now they don't even want to remember that. Unfortunately, Latvia has a habit of promising one before the elections, but after the elections speak and do something quite different. Promise everything that comes to mind, but pretend after the elections that it was just a pre-election rhetoric. There are a number of questions. Why, for example, has the promise of the New Conservative Party and the CPV LV to reduce the number of ministries been violated? For many people in the country, income has fallen catastrophicly, and I think it is right now to make national machines more efficient. Development/About! promised to double the salaries of nurses and a similar celestial woman. When will these promises be fulfilled? As a result, government legislation does not reflect not only the pre-election promises, but also the commitments made by Krišjānis Kariņš in the government declaration, where for example there has been a chapter on the abolition of OICs. Violation of promises does not honor anyone, but government ministers in particular. Thanks to the community, the people of Latvia have clearly been able to see how far the medical officer of our country is in a deep crisis. Another remarkable example in this regard is the e-health gap in many governments. It is a pity that neither the former Minister Viņķele nor the present Minister Pavilita has had the courage to speak out openly and take action accordingly, to start a real change in the area of health. And it is unlikely that this government will succeed. It seems that several ministers of Kariņš government are now in the routine, unable to think and work in an innovative way, and no longer want to change. I'm sure all the members of the Cabinet of Ministers... I am not sure that all the members of the Cabinet of Ministers have authority in their fields. I believe that it would be right to support competent people who have a sense of mind, a sector and how to manage this sector properly. Unfortunately, however, the time when the principle of political inserts should have been abandoned and professionals should have been placed in office has not been used. I see no reason why the government created by Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš should be supported, because the government has forgotten its basic task of caring for the people of the country. Moreover, I do not understand by government ministers that poverty in Latvia is real, that the unacceptably low vaccination rate and illogical restrictions imposed by the pandemic have an impact on our country's economy. And affects very and very negative. Unfortunately, however, one of the ministers does not feel that one of them would like to take responsibility for what is happening. I am not surprised because the government has been entrusted with power that has lost its desire. And then it's extremely incomprehensible and curry coalition together with it. Ladies and gentlemen, to support what is meant by taking responsibility. Ministers, who, despite their lack of knowledge, continue to fulfil their responsibilities, cannot take responsibility for them. We also do not want to show solidarity with the chaotic actions of the government. We will definitely live in prosperity in our country in Latvia, where every person is worth. And these times are no longer behind the mountains. I call for support for the draft decision on distrust to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš. I call for the vote in favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U329	Dear colleagues, I think it's time for a break. The debate will continue after the break. Registration of the presence of Members has taken place. Interruption until 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U330	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Dear Members, Honourable Members! We shall continue the examination of the agenda of the remote extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 15 April 2021 following a break. We are continuing the debate on the draft decision “On distrust to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš”. As Member of the next debate, Jūlija Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U331	Dear colleagues, When an orderman arrives in our land, he has a specific task. A specific task is to carry out dirty, black work and then disappear without a trail, to account for their curators and to fulfill the task assigned by the curators. In fact, this performer is in no way interested in how his victim will look like it. He is most interested in whether he will succeed without a footstep or whether he will be found, tried, or punished. Of course, in addition to all of them, he is interested in the reward he would be willing to receive for his black job. Those who do this black job, collaborators - they have their own reason to support this measure by silently and by voting against it, if we are talking about the request for the Prime Minister's resignation, because the collaborators, at least those wisest who are equal to this whole event, are very afraid of having a set of folders about their composers. Those who are the wisest - they certainly depend on this vote. Those who are like a galler, who continue to lead their lives in a coalition, who no longer have their feet to get away - they will remain the same, there are no problems, but those who are most honest may suspect. Maybe. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not really have great hopes of today's vote, although, of course, there is always hope. And what we want our society to see is this vote. We need the public to see how this is, if we can call it a government... the evaluation of the work of this group by elected representatives of the public, Members of the Saeima, one hundred wise heads. If most of these hundred smart heads today, comets scared, rewards stimulated... or just behind the inertia, behind the bar instinct I will vote against Kariņš' depression, then, of course, this will be another reason for the active part of Latvian society to print this vote and put it on the wall. That is what we hear almost every Thursday, that is what our constituents tell us: “I will remember this vote.” And so, honourable colleagues, it's every Thursday. I think that, in addition to all your expenses, all your PR projects, you could also devote one of the rooms of the National Library of Latvia to such votes, because these votes are no longer enough with a refrigerator or a wall, such votes require the largest hall of the National Library of Latvia so that people can come and study all the lists before the elections, what the Saeima and the government have done to the public at least during this last year. I will not go into all the details, perhaps my colleague, Mr Gobzem, has told you what the government led Krišjānis Kariņš has done. I will just say that this government, for which Krišjānis Kariņš is, of course, politically responsible and no one more, has turned into a number of plagues for antruders who, in this difficult time - people in difficult times - continue to dwelt up and perceive the society's time as a huge area of opportunity. Buying cats for the community, cutting salads, PR projects, waiting for summer with kindergarten level poems - this shameless cutting of money continues. It continues, regardless of anything - despite the requests from the opposition, uncomfortable issues, proposals, or public opinion. It goes on, just laughing in the eyes. And lying continues. Lying continues at such a level that no one is even uncomfortable to admit that he has really lied. This shameless spending and lying continues and continues, and this lying and spending will be supported today, probably by a large proportion of the coalition Members, because we see that there is no coalition Member willing to defend his Prime Minister today. We have not heard any defence speech. Never. And it shows that this black doer will disappear after he has done his black job and you will also forget it as a nightmare, because what is left is port privatisation, railroad and Skulte terminal. It's a black job. It's reindustrialisation. And that's the measure that this man is likely to disappear with Mr. Levit in the far blue. And he absolutely doesn't care about who stays behind him. He doesn't care where we live. Because the performers don't care, as I said, how their victim will look. The government is a group of opportunists, and this group of opportunists continues their shameless things. And you, honourable colleagues from the coalition, let that happen. I'm calling... I call on you to vote today as your conscience compels you. I call on you to vote today as you would have liked to do on countless occasions, because you do not support Karina. We know that. We believe that you should finally, the honourable colleagues of the coalition, the UK, who have spoken with great courage today, say all the truth. The public will appreciate this. I call for the vote in favour. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U332	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U333	The President of the sitting. Dear Mr. Kariņš, if you are following this sitting! I will begin by saying that my signature is also below the request for this depression. In a sense, when this question was on the table - whether to sign or not - I asked myself quite a simple question: why shouldn't I do it and whether it really would be good or bad. If we are talking about a change of government, then here is a place to look at whether it really has caused some major shock in our neighbourhood? Did the change in government lead to some deadlock, for example, in the same Estonia? Did government change and even elections, parliamentary elections, create some state of emergency, an absence in Lithuania? Colleagues! I think you were all witnesses of the fact that the process that is taking place around the spread of the virus, to a large extent, I will allow you to say, does not affect it, but, quite the other way round, in some places it allows the entire government to restart. It gives you an opportunity to recover and maybe jump out for a while at least from that self-certification in such a way... At present, it is very, very evident to this Cabinet of Ministers. Our Cabinet of Ministers has mediocreties, people who have no understanding of public administration. Whatever I want to say that Krišjānis Kariņš is a professional who has an understanding of the state administration, at the moment when Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš no longer hosts meetings of the Committee of the Cabinet of Ministers, it is the first signal that this Prime Minister does not understand how it is organized and how to successfully organise the work of the state administration. It is the first signal that the government will be increasingly disengaged and disengaged from the real issues of everyday problems over time, ministers will not work, they will only decide on political issues... and will form such a political debate, a political show, a circus that we can now observe at government sittings, where the Prime Minister languishes his ministers, ministers face up to something other, populist views of a minister. And all this is aimed at society in order to earn political dividends in some way. But does society then, through draft decisions, through clear, debated, clear to the experts, debate draft decisions - does society really get the best result? I think we all see now that - no, we are not getting a better result. We've got... The members of the government make a decision without going into the documents with which they work, without going into the way the documents are prepared, make their own decisions, then criticise them, and then look back on any issues that have been made about trade restrictions, and do not understand how it has happened. All this can happen only in circumstances where responsible politicians, officials do not work on these issues, do not study and do not work with the documents that they have before them and do not go into those matters. This symbolic meeting of the Cabinet Committee is, in fact, one vivid example, where there is a clear format in which everyone can come and take part, you can debate, you can argue on the substance, until you achieve this best result, then you understand what is going on, and ministers get involved in it all. And it's a good format. At the moment, we can look back on the things that this government has tried to do and what could then be the benefits. And that's what I could try to count on what the government has done and what it's proud of... One of these benefits is undoubtedly the reform of education. But education reform, if we remove these beautiful slogans that we have a very... Well, we're going to get smarter because we're reforming universities... If we look at the content and how it all was made, then, of course, it all started at the moment when the Minister of Education and Science argued with one of Latvia... With the University of Latvia, let us be concrete, and the rectors were removed, there were trials where the Minister of Education and Science was rather ashamed. At that time, of course, it was also the idea of reforming the higher education system, of which there is a need to appoint councils. And what will these councils do? A rector will be appointed, and this will be an opportunity to intervene in some way in this university autonomy. And if you don't even include dealing with personal relations in Latgale in relation to Rezekne and Daugavpils, where politicians are just trying to settle with Daugavpils University... In my opinion, this is very, very wrong, and proud of such a reform is even more wrong. That's one thing - education. Let us take the next step - administrative territorial reform. Whatever the case, I will not analyse how the Latvian map was broken. But what we have heard in the background - that there will be huge growth for municipalities, there will be new powerful, really strong municipalities. Come on! New jobs will be developed, entrepreneurship will be simply magnet and jobs will be created, the most competitive in Europe. We heard a wide range of best words about what the local authorities will be like after the reform of the local government. That's one side. But then we look at the other side. We are looking at this year's budget. With one hand we broke the map, create new challenges, and with the other hand, we make the most of our budget. It is at a time when people should take care of them most in terms of social challenges... who supported the same entrepreneurs in the areas on the ground... local governments were made the most difficult life. In such circumstances, what growth can be considered? Municipalities were, by nature, demolished from huge amounts of funding and, of course, it is currently being tried to replace with some kind of funds, the European Commission's investment. It would be with or without this government, it would be the same thing. You call what you want: reform programmes and so on. The roads should also be repaired, and the investments made by the funds should also take place. But you reduced the funding of the state budget, historically to the greatest extent this year. That, in my opinion, is not the right step... And to tell you that we have a strengthening of democracy, a strong local government - that is wrong. At the same time, we are looking at the reconstruction fund, which I really regret... If you haven't noticed this... I was very sorry to hear from you that we needed to repay the debt to Riga. And in the reconstruction fund, the climate challenges are exclusively in the capital of Latvia in Riga. Only in Riga are these climate challenges that need to be tackled, and the rest of Latvia does not. And that's the feeling that it doesn't exist elsewhere. The crossing between Riga and Latvia is still large. And you, Mr Kariņš, will make it even bigger with the recovery fund instrument. The difference between Riga and Latvia, directly by implementing the mechanism of the renewal investment fund, which your government is currently offering, is only increasing. Investments in the health sector. Well, I could be wrong for a few percent, but let's say, 90 percent - in Riga, 10 percent - in the rest of Latvia. Is that normal? Is it really true that this experience that we are now gaining does not call into question whether these hospitals really only need to be organised in Riga? There are also regions, but the difference between how much investment is invested in regions and how much investment is invested in hospitals in Riga is simply abnormal. Well, let's not talk about transport investments at all! It is just that everything is invested in Riga. And all this under the name of Riga must be repaid. What debt? Look at the data on how many European Investment Fund funds, budget investments have been made in Riga in the last five decades. Look at the total investment! Those figures are quite significant in terms of how much is invested, constantly invested in Riga. But that doesn't end. We are also seeing other areas. ‘ Capital repairs”, where also the Minister of Defence of the Government tells us that it has failed. We have a member of the government coalition who is doing this, even now... has now reached interesting proposals as part of measures to improve capital repairs. What raises the question whether we really have benefited from “capital repairs” or, quite the other way round, it has given us evil? Are we really with the fact that we are leaders, at least in Europe, if not in the world, with our “capital repairs”... How much we have undermined at the moment, or how much we may have improved. But I have heard only the negative side of this “capital repairs”, the improvements here are hard to talk about. How many entrepreneurs have come to leave the Latvian market! But they have found a place here in the neighbourhood, in Lithuania, in Poland, where they are welcomed by hand. And they're not a few thousand, they're millions who've left Latvia. Colleagues, the next one I wanted to touch is small businessmen and labour taxes. If we look at the crisis - and the Covid-19 is a huge crisis for any businessman - the biggest victims are undoubtedly small businessmen. And I have to listen to the Prime Minister's group at the time of adoption of the budget, that was even the leader of the group who said that this is now the happy moment when we are reducing labour taxes. We are reducing general taxes, but under equalisation we are raising the tax on micro-enterprises, introducing a mandatory social contribution, creating huge new burdens which, in my view, are unacceptable: the mechanisms created by the crisis are being destroyed in times of crisis, and this is happening under the leadership of Mr Kariņš's government. Now, I think there are a whole range of entrepreneurs who are suffering from it. This is not acceptable to me. And by asking my question once again: has this government really worked well, has this government really done everything so that I do not have to sign the request for a mission? -, my answer is - no, the government has not worked well, and the government has done enough evil for Latvian society to say no more. These decisions, which are based on the basic postage of the five party coalition... and, of course, the ancient members of the Prime Minister's fight - for example, Mr Latkovsky, who is unable to climb today and defend his Prime Minister, but he is able to walk through the Saeima, through political groups, and to gather votes to keep the Prime Minister in office. Undoubtedly, the New Unity, as they are calling at the moment, is a matter of particular importance: to remain in power at the moment. It is just as important, I think, for a whole number of other political parties that are currently in a coalition. Let's call it that's political corruption that's holding on... Politicians stick to posts now more than ever. It is such a peculiar guarantor of government and a peculiar trap for Latvian citizens, who have to look at how badly this government works, and how this government's stuting, gathering together, this walking... If it had done something like that... Indeed, we have an economy going up, we would be somewhere in the middle of these vaccines fights, but there are two thousand dead in Latvia, and we are definitely not in the middle, we are the last in all statistics on how we fight the community. If these five parties are unable to agree on normal work, then there may be extraordinary elections. Do not be afraid of this, both that Mr Kariņš is not afraid of it, and that other colleagues are not afraid of it. But ask yourself a question: are you really ready to vote today with a good conscience to keep Mr. Kariņš working. Vote for your conscience.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U334	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U335	I'm the second part of my speech, Ommies. Omes, you're watching Saeima broadcast and watching TV. Let me understand. So Latkovsky walks through the offices, offers everything. Well, look simply at your life experience, well, he's such a suspicious type. I say the same to the Office for the Prevention and Combating of Corruption. Pay attention to Latkovsky! There's reason. Trust me. And it's not funny, it's real. We know which party you're making. That's the case number one. Number two. And now logically we go through -- what's in favour of Karina? So Karina is in favour of it being clear that the New Unity is the last time it runs a state. It's 20, how many are there? - led for years... and so on. Who else supports? The national association is the main aid. By its very nature, the National Association is a hidden movement to support gay rights. They support all the time... liberal support for years. They always support the liberal policy, and so, then they go with those torches and flags, they're mobbling something there. But all the time, remember, omes, the hidden gay right-support movement is the National Union. Let's go. What else is in favour? Development/About!. Development/About! so that you, omes, really want to drop the Karina, but they're afraid to take the initiative. Because if you take the initiative, then the next premiere will not come from Development/About!. So sit and wait. They've got... Development/About! it is advantageous that Karin is not thrown down, then they have it in the ranking as if on the... with all the Viņķelis and the Shoes in the luggage. So for Development/About! looks at Karin making soap more and more. Well that's why they don't let go of the government. There are no other reasons. There's not that they like Karin or something else, there's exactly the opposite. But you can't expect their voices. They are a party that is tended to be material. It's all clear. Go on. Who supports this government? UK. The UK supports this government because it is obviously the best friends of Zuzan. And apparently they need that gambling. Well, it's just like any question that the UK is climbing into a tribunal, talking about one, thinking about the other and doing the third. The bench is ‘3 × 500’, but there is nothing in fact. Solo in education - now it will, and everything will be fine - is in fact nothing. It's all in a row. And... That's it. They're interested in... They are a project party. They are interested in projects. The project in Skulte port for its sponsors or the project - a prison where to sit for those who will be judged from this party. Something like that. Then there is ‘KPV LV’. An organization that also probably last in history exists. And it matters to them every day - the longer you stay in government, the more important it is. I forgot something? I guess I haven't forgotten. In one word, all these organizations - remember, again: so New Unity, Development/About! , KPP, KPV LV and National Association -, they are not interested in the people. It's a cartel, a business project where they care about... As Jūlija Stepanenko said, there is a moderator who does not understand where he is, does not understand what he is doing, does not understand what others are doing, and can only tell you on Easter that we will show each other eggs. It is clear that changes will only take place in our country when we have a Prime Minister who will not invite others to show eggs, but who has them. Well, because there's a real old man who's not afraid of making decisions. What are the decisions that Karin has not made? Minister of Education and Science has not dismissed, Minister of the Interior has not dismissed. After all, those missing ministers, those who are not at all. I think he doesn't even know what the formation of the Cabinet is, because it is part of the ministers that we never seem to have seen at all. All right. So this government... It is only necessary to steal the people, nothing else needs it. And if someone says that something is reformed or something else, it is not, in fact, just to take away money for people, to take away business and everything else. So remember, ome! Once again... Just remember who will vote for Karina - it's not for your well-being or for your grandchildren' well-being, it's pure and just a cartel business. They're watching ratings. They're looking at the ratings every month. They're looking at how they... I think they're also paying for those ratings. And then they think, well, we have. Why does the National Union, for example, support the New Unity in their gay government? Because in the backstages they say, well, we have a pretty good rating on the overall background, then we can still. Why, for example, does the UK begin to be furious at any sitting of the Saeima? Because they are watching that they're all being messed up there, that they will soon no longer have any members, the last seven voters will vote for them, then the UK must at least start talking, but they will be afraid to leave the government. Actually, omes, you have to understand that there is nothing difficult in politics! - from how it's all happening. Well, in all the corridors, Latkovsky is flying on the Saeima, talking, I don't know what he offers - new mobile phones or some political tourism trip again. Mr Pucen could tell you about a political tourism trip to Paris-Dakar Rally, for example. And that's it. That is the work of the Saeima. There is no great corruption in the Saeima, omes, you need to understand that. The great corruption is in the government, where Karin is, because it is enough for the Saeima to give new phones, crafts and so on to those Members. The great corruption is at Karina. That is why he must also be replaced by all those tax collectors who are now being detained by the Sisters. That is what I have understood for these two years in Parliament. On the other hand, if we do not give up the government today, on 4 May at the Esplanade at the monument of Rainis, we will ask the President of Latvia to release Kariņš, just as he once called to him Dombrovskis of Unity, who came out crying and said that we went after the visit to Berzins. Levit now should also call Karina to leave because I think it's enough to cry to society. There must be a strong stand, there is nothing to fear more. The situation is very simple: either they will subject us to the end, and you who are watching will be servants forever, or we will be servants of them. No compromise is possible here. This really will be an uncompromising fight not for a “uncompromising rule of law” but for an uncompromising right for you, the Latvian society, and also for you, omes! I know that for some of you, the television has flushed the brain. That's it. But open your eyes, see how your grandchildren will have to live in a country where all the figures are last, almost all! The poorest country in the Baltics! With a raging poorest country! The nineties have returned during the government of Karina during the ministry of Bordan. Shoot us on the streets every few months in a clear day - zero reactions! Because they don't know what to figure out until the pyars write the texts, they let them go in three days. It's not enough for itself, that intellectual flight goes beyond masks and eggs... or for cuscus and otcats. And so for 30 years we have been living under the aegis of Unity. Putin is even less in power than UNIT, count for years. And that's the result. Power needs to change in order to be competitive in order to have national development. In countries where power is changing, this is a normal, natural process. Even if now the next Prime Minister will be Edgars Jaunups, it will be better, believe me! There will be a new tear between them, the rest will be better. Well, it is clear that the best of course will be (but there is still to endure, it will not be right now) when the real opposition comes to power, that is, “Law and order”, and when Gobzem will be the Prime Minister, then it will be the best. That is absolutely clear, because we think differently, we do not think in that cartel's thinking - the way they think. They think there's something to shake up and something like that. Look at another thing, ome! What has been done in the time of this government, in these years... How many are there? Two or how much? Nothing! Nothing at all. Well, he gave you 200 euros once. Didn't give it or did it? I don't remember. That's it! You have enough, 200 euros, and then everything, life is fine! Did they give the children 500... well, that's all, you can vote. It's about it -- you take everything away and then give a third back, and then you live happily on it. Now they're gonna put those green cards in place for you. The way the yellow stars used to be. Let's divide society. By the way, liberals around the world do it, not conservatives, but liberals. Well, and again, where are the real Conservatives? Those in opposition? ‘ Law and order’ - these are the real Conservatives. For real traditional values and everything you need. That's why they already call... They already understand that. So they already call me gay to try to distract attention from all that happens there. Well, let's get you out there and like that. All those statements that they say are to distract your attention from how they all sink you all, as you they take everything away as hairdressers work--the quiet ride to home. It's good that I had bought those underwear for six months ahead. I don't know what to do. I hate going to shops like this. But stand on the street--you don't stun, people? You really are as sheep stand and stand in those rows. You don't hurt that? I'm shocked. I don't know, I'm shocked. If this strikes you, then on 4 May at seven o'clock. Whatever it is, I'm gonna let it go, I'm not gonna let it go. Let's go! Either they're us or we're them. Even if nothing happens today, even if they are not thrown away today... But, you know, if I vote for Karin's depression today in the UK, then I promise you never again to be Sandy Riekstin in this term. I promise it. Then I'll say he's better than Mrs. Šuplinsk. It's a lot of me. But I'll do it. That's why... I'm humorous for all of this, because, like you can no longer be on this here... Well, how long have you been smashing them? Everything has been said, everything is clear on all topics. Well, how long are you doing? Just laugh at them. But it's too little for them to be released. Either you have to let go or people have to go to the streets. And it's real. Not to stand in the streets in line, but to get once in 30 years. You really want poverty, people, live? Or you live very well, you have enough, you like it so that we are there all the time in the last place. I don't like it, so I'm talking like that. I want to live in a rich country, I want to live where children are good. Where good education can be obtained. Where you can get a good job. And don't have to talk all the time about these all those who don't have those eggs in the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U336	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U337	Dear colleagues, Dear President, We're looking... on distrust to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš. We all know very well and remember what we have discussed many times here in Parliament, in the e-Parliament environment. Not only on record debt, which will have to be paid back to future governments, but on chaos in the economy. Small, medium employer, small, medium businessman... Most often, it is a local businessman who has had a huge shave not only with illogical, incomprehensible, regularly changed restrictions, but also with failing to comply with parliamentary decisions. There have been several such decisions. I am not only talking about the OIC, which we have debated a lot and a lot in Parliament, not only about children and young people's sport, health, medical salaries, but also about the many and conceptual decisions that the government refuses... I don't think so. At this time of crisis, we saw very well that the government and its representatives do not inform the public about possible vaccines, nor do they send them in time. Then seek the guilty and find one small, small official who is guilty of all this. Like Maxim’s tragedy, the screw was guilty of the death of humans. We're still in the healthcare system right now... Very many are hospitalized, we, Latvia, have a record number of deaths related to the Covid-19. These are people, these are lives that are destroyed every day. They would be much less dried up if it were logical and timely decisions by the government to order vaccines in good time, as a large proportion of the public are willing to receive vaccines on a voluntary basis so that they can pass the possible course of the disease as easily as possible, so that they are not hospitalized and, without God’s giving, die. No, it wasn't done, but what we hear after the perpetrators are sought internally and find a small, small official who is guilty of it. But who drives the government? Who is responsible for the work of the government as a whole? It is the Prime Minister, who does not deal with ministers in his field. We see overloaded hospitals. We regularly hear from many different areas, sectoral organisations, that they do not listen to them. They come with advice, they come with suggestions that they are prepared to comply with these epidemiological conditions to allow them to work... To some extent work to enable them to feed their families so that they can pay the public service bills. But they are not given such opportunities, and they are regularly fed with promises that there will be a traffic lights that will soon light the green light. But today, many of them have a strong red light in this traffic light. We can say a lot and a great deal why we have now signed up to this proposal, that the government should step aside and that Krišjānis Kariņš, who would probably be a very medium-sized, normal Prime Minister in peace times, should go home, that we need the Prime Minister, who is in charge of the crisis, who wants to achieve results that demand concrete performance goals, deadlines and results from him. There is no such result at present. It is not for nothing that we are currently leaving all countries in many areas of Europe, and I am not talking only about vaccination. These effects, which are being created, will remain for us... Our people will remain for a long, long time. You will see that when people will be able to travel, many will leave this country, many will be doing so now, but this wave of emigration will be very great at the moment the other countries of the European Union are opening up, because we will have many companies closed not only for the duration of the pandemic but for the whole. We see how the State Revenue Service carries out its activities by transferring various potential tax debts from one company to another... re-... who is likely to have gone out of insolvency proceedings. And a person understands that he can't do business, he can't employ people. Many employers are prevented from working normally. What will he do? He is already looking for an opportunity to move his production or business to a neighbouring country or to another European Union country and so on. After all, we are seeing very well, and we are also hearing the public's assessment of the work of the government as a whole, that there is absolutely the greatest distrust of this government as it has been. This is confirmed by all the decisions taken by this government in fact in the past. I personally believe that Krišjānis Kariņš should resign himself. And for nothing in this debate, too, in this debate on asking for a democracy, no representative of the coalition has applied for. Everyone is ready to be a voting machine to hold this coalition to hold this government, but I think many people in their heart really understand that it can be much better for us, as a country, to work much better, that we were now able to organise different working groups and to search for the best and brightest minds between us or to attract them from our society, from different organisations, so that we can overcome this crisis very successfully, so that we can develop our economy, so that we can compete among the Baltic countries, so that we can compete at European and global level. But what the government is doing right now is they're just trying to waste, waste and waste again. Spending your money, spending it quickly, it's not a big art. Art is to invest it wisely, so we get back, our economy get back... so we get back our budget so every member of society gets back this contribution, this sow. We sow grain to grow several shafts. What you're going to do, you're going to reap it. At the moment we are sowing disbelief in society, to be precise, the government is sowing a very high degree of disbelief in all the decisions that this government makes, this chaos that has been created in virtually all areas - economic, health, children's health, sport, education, culture. During the crisis, a number of tax regimes in which people work are abolished - royalties, microbusiness taxes... and so on. Where can these people find new jobs? Have you thought about it? In the field of transit, we are very happy to announce that it is not our... that it is not our priority. People dear, where can they, these people, get a new job? It's not easy to get a new job if you've been working in some area for a long time, especially during a pandemic. If the economy were to grow and there were huge demand for new hands of work, that would be one story, it is not the case at the moment. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call on you to support distrust Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U338	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U339	Dear colleagues, I'm just gonna keep up on possible scenarios. It is no wonder that this cynicism is so high and that cynicism is masked with an intelligent human image that very much like omites, aunts, but actually... You probably all understand that a man who has been able to scout for a “Pionier” transaction is not a normal man who – oh, horror! - is unable to speak in Latvian and always laughs over the joy of all the aunts. No, it's not! It is enough to look at something that has happened to people who may have been hoping to steal their premiere chair. Here we look at one expolitist Puce, who has already been packed in the gallerder completely (in terms of his political career), because, behold, Puce was hanging on this chair, but finally got a skip scandal. Of course, it's his own... he did all this himself, no one had to do any provocations. If it is Pabrik, who will sit down on this chair, then there will finally be a specific argument about Pabrik's purchases during the pandemic. There is very much such evidence, and this evidence is standing in the relevant folder. It's just enough for someone to take a leg. That's why, colleagues, really... Honorable society! I would like to turn to you more. Please consider, really appreciate, these expressions, and evaluate the behavior, because in essence this person is not what he pretends to be. And Mr. Kariņš himself, of course, also a very great recommendation - do not have to... don't try to convince, don't try to hide it your essence, because it's really very harmful. We have all understood what the goal is so that we may not have to pretend. Speak a clear language, and don’t say, “I didn’t want to get angry, but I finally get angry.” No, just be what you're actually doing because... I think that all the PR campaigns, all these measures that you have planned, will certainly fail because, in your greed, you are so presumptuous that you will certainly also share those PR specialists who will ultimately make you a very funny campaign. As they are currently trying to justify buying a vaccination newspaper. You know that I very much like to write with Mr Pavluta, and every week Mr Pavluta is sending me the answers, and the last answer just came. You know what Mr. Pavļuta is justifying why a vaccination newspaper is needed? The vaccination newspaper, in the opinion of Mr Pavļuta, is necessary because very many low-income people choose not to receive vaccination and those low-income people do not have the opportunity to buy the newspaper. And that's why they have to deliver this newspaper for 100 thousand euros. If you want to continue these PR campaigns at the level you have imagined, then we would like to order you the following campaign: “I want a summer without Karina.” We are ready to donate to such a campaign so that we can not see Karina at least this summer. We want summer, but without you! I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U340	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U341	Good afternoon to all who are still following this sitting! The fact that the government is not fulfilling its responsibilities is not capable of fulfilling them, which does not mean that we too should treat our responsibilities side by side. If we have already requested Karini's resignation, it is a serious step, so that is why - seriously, with arguments - it should be justified. Here, I think it is not enough just to make emotional, general statements, but there are also certain things that are needed. For my part, I will list a number of specific things that demonstrate that Krišjānis Kariņš deserves support for the request for a commission. Each of these reasons is absolutely enough for Krišjānis Kariņš to resign. I have never hid, and I say it openly: I believe that Krišjānis Kariņš is not a suitable prime minister, he is not in place or at his own time - this time is not for him. This time is not for the poor and the little ones. There is a need for proactive, responsible actions that those in power are unable to carry out. The longer you are in power, the worse it is for all, not only for the Latvian state, but also for the Latvian society, because, by its very nature, you become murderers. In principle, because of your decisions, many people die because of your actions. You are, in principle, a mass murderer, you are at least implementing a genocide against your people. And I will just mention concrete figures that will make everyone think about it, because all I have to say is that I can always justify it: there is always a certain ground for this at the bottom. Let's just take the statistics. In Latvia, according to statistics, 109 thousand people have become ill, of which more than two thousand have died. If we take data for Estonia - in the meantime, 116 thousand people have contracted in Estonia, about as much, perhaps a little more, but the dead are a little more than a thousand - it's twice as much. Two times less! The difference is about a thousand people! The question is, how did this difference arise, and who is responsible for it? What do these numbers indicate? These figures indicate the state of our healthcare system. And who is responsible for the position it is in? First of all, you, Krišjāni Karin, and your party, which has been at the wheel of the country for many years and has taken decisions on public health care. A couple years ago... Remember, Krisjani Karin, as we pursued you, hit you to come here to the Saeima, and count why you can't find the money for medical staff, even though there was money in the budget! There were more than 700 million plus, but you could not find the 140 million needed by doctors. You frivolously said that it was not necessary. And now you get the result. What is why we need these many restrictions at the moment, on which it can often be said that they are inadequate and unthinkable, is precisely about these decisions. So these many... not just this death of people, but many... tens, hundreds of millions of losses that are now incurred, which will have to be repaid later to our children, our grandchildren, because of your actions... they are the result of these decisions, because if you had taken care of the healthcare system in good time, it would have had a much greater capacity, because the main reasons... Why are these restrictions necessary? So that we can ensure the capacity of the healthcare system according to the level of disease that it could serve, so that we do not also have an emergency there. And that is the result of your decisions. Go on. Let us take the specific things that we have talked about, which you should be aware of. Last year you were asked to explain the reasons for your restrictions. It was obvious that they were illogical and had no reason to do so (even though the same product range restrictions). Only when you made this request and asked specific questions, you suddenly realized on these questions that you took your decisions without proper analysis, that was what you also publicly admitted. It's only after! As Prime Minister, you have long had to understand what is happening, how decisions are made in your government. If that is not the case, I will give you an opportunity now; I assume that you are still... Follow this debate further. Apply and explain what the justification is for the same virus in the same situation to be subject to completely different regulations regarding the limitation of areas. In particular, in public transport, you have one regulation for space restrictions, where people drive much more compressively, whereas in commercial premises you have another: there you have a requirement of 25 square metres. In turn, for outdoor activities... it is simply phenomenal: for outdoor activities you are imposing even more restrictions! External activities where the virus is even more difficult to spread and maintain! There are such restrictions... For example, moto training limitations are about one person per hectare, that is, per thousands of square meters per person! It is simply the most total absurdity, and nobody can explain, and that is what your government has approved! Then you decide, you confirm it... all this butter, I'm sorry. This is simply one remarkable example. If you are an adequate person, and if it has been a well - thought - out decision, apply and explain how you have made that decision, and what reason for it. No one has been able to provide it. Go on. Next, talking about specific things, about your... What you were asked about - about these masks and respiratory purchases. A specific purchase from SIA “TITLED”. So these respirators... So respiratory, not masks. It is a means of protection that was bought by our doctors so that they can protect themselves from the community. So those people who fight this plague on the first front lines. You bought them useless respirators, urgently, a whole million, which then... after six months of use, it turned out to be invalid. You have still not been able to answer what the devil had to buy a million of these respiratory equipment if after half a year almost half of them were not used. What kind of devil did these respiratory equipment have to buy directly from the advertising agency if there were other, more reliable, and more advantageous offers? Why were they to be bought at such a high price, even though they could be cheaper? You have still not been able to answer that. This request is still waiting for answers. We will see this in a few weeks. These are the questions that have been asked. Go on. You have still not been able to answer what has happened to everything that this businessman has been responsible for, to whom you were so willing to buy respiratory equipment with obviously fake documents, bypassing the law, saying: no, we will do so. That's the reason you're... Trusted... the defendant has not been able to submit. I'm waiting for the answer, Krišjānis Karin. If it's here... It's all right if you've found out all this. This request is standing for you. As Prime Minister, you should have been in the course and clearly reported on it. The next item is the purchase of vaccines. Chris Caryn, what was found... One thing we found out is that your... In fact, the inspection carried out by the Ministry of Health was not a test; it was a test to cover the area. And we found certain facts to... I would also expect you to comment... which you are aware of. That is, we found that, in fact, this purchase of vaccines... what we were told that it had happened... first purchase of vaccines... We are talking about the Pfizer vaccines, because we know that modern vaccines now have the same story... The same thing has been done that we have abandoned them, but we were lied about the Pfizer vaccines. The Minister for Health and foam on his lips told me that the purchase of vaccines... this information was sent to Latvia on 16 November. And the answer was to be given on 18 November. We discovered in our request that this information was actually submitted to Latvia on 11 November. What is significant in this story? Why was it not explained by this Health Ministry test, which was designed to find out the real facts? They didn't find out why, even though the information was at their disposal. Then there's the question: what did they do there at all? What was the purpose of this test? So, most likely, to hide your political irresponsibility with which your government had decided all this... the story, because it turns out - if this information was in Latvia on 11 November, then it is likely that... Five days, no one at all... had no interest at all in this, and only when officials from Europe... after the procedure, Latvia had to reply within five days. When these five days passed and Latvia had not responded at all to this offer about Pfizer vaccines, there the officials called and asked: “E, Latvia, are you interested in these vaccines at all? Not interested? You'll take them, don't you?' And only then did the movement begin here. The result, the result, is that many people have died because we do not have these vaccines. Many would have been vaccinated with a “Pfizer” vaccine, but they do not have access to it. What have you done in this regard as Prime Minister? Answer me! All of these things were known to you, and we told you a good time ago. Go on. On OIC. It is certainly also an interesting story. What you said with the foam on your lips... You're like the cross-father of this OIC. What are you doing now? Do you know what's happening under your hand? What is the Minister for Economics doing in your government? Not only has he not fulfilled anything you have promised in your government declaration... Currently, the Minister of Economics violates the law instead of complying with the law. In particular, last year regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers had to be developed in order to eliminate certain aspects of this environment. He has not yet done so in violation of the law. Moreover, he is now preparing rules to cover this area. Instead of recovering illegal, unduly paid aid, which is measured in millions (and these facts we have on our hands, they are known, they are submitted to the Saeima, and there are obvious facts about fraud - those in millions!) , your Minister for Economic Affairs is currently preparing rules so that these millions of fraudsters cannot be recovered so that they remain these fraudsters. Go on. No rules have been drawn up to prevent this overcompensation for a long time; these are again enti million, which are specifically mutilated. These rules... Since last year... Although these rules should have been applied before 31 March, the conversion had already been carried out. These unduly paid amounts would have been recalculated, reduced and already had to be recovered if they had been exceeded. We are talking here again about many millions. This is not done either. All this is happening under your auspices. I'll tell you more. New amendments to the law are being prepared - The Ministry of Economics is preparing for a new OIC.... how to get inside, how to hide expensive, very expensive, renewable technologies, which otherwise no one buys and which cannot get in here. The following amendments to the law are being prepared in order to lobbying the interests of suppliers (like those of previous OIC schemes). It's all under your control, you're covering it all. So answer me, Mr Kariņš: are you respectable to be Prime Minister, are you respectable to be in this post? Go on. Already when you broke out the vaccination plan, I warned you that you will have another failure right away. And it was about the financing plan proposed by Europe - the post-fighter recovery plan that... I warned you there... It is obvious that there will be the same, I am sorry, bell as with vaccination: the billions that are given to us will not be able to learn meaningfully. And now, right now, it's happening. It is simply a disaster - what you have prepared. The social partners, caught their heads, are trying to explain what is happening there, and you think that all of this is normal! You understand what the cost will have to pay the whole of our people for this mistake, because if we misunderstood this money, when this trap starts after the communion, when every country tries to choose, pick up its own, and if we haven't used it correctly, we'll stay in the tail. As we are now going on with vaccination, exactly will then... But what further does this mean? This means that, in economic development, we will not be able to offer a valuable offer to the rest of the world, because we simply will not have an economy ready for it. We can be back where we are, at this fucking end. This means that once again we will have no education, no health. That means... What further does this mean? For our nation, this means destruction. What you are doing now - you are not only doing the promotion of mass murders, by your inaction you are preparing a very grim fate for our whole nation, our country, for destruction, just because you desperately stick to your office. You are well aware that such irresponsible decisions, so incompetent decisions anywhere else, will not be allowed to be made, and that is the only place where you can and can do so. Think, though, about your conscience, and think that once you have to stand before God, all of this will have to be answered. And, you know, there's no interest you weren't... that you didn't understand what you were doing there. No, you understand very well. You understand very well. And if you... What I hope to expect from you is that you are in the debate and rebut all these facts that I have mentioned, all that I say. Otherwise, you put all your coalition partners in a very difficult situation, first of all our box - the New Conservative Party - who came here to act honestly, courageously, wisely. I want to see... Apply, please, colleagues from the New Conservative Party, and explain what will be your honest, courageous, wise action in this situation, knowing what is happening to the OIC, what is happening to all of these masks, all of these community-related purchases that have been implemented under this emergency cover, and knowing what is happening now with vaccination. In your view, this is truly fair, courageous, and wise? All this, in your opinion, is being promoted... Is that so? That's right? And you are now going to support it. So how will you explain this to your constituents? I call on all voters to follow along because, with this vote, this party, which came with these new standards of morality and justice, will show that they are, in fact, hypocrites and medals; that they are not interested in all this; that it is more important for them to stick to power; that they are prepared to pass on any principles, any of their values, so that they can only remain in power. If that is not the case, apply for a debate and denounce me, prove that I have spoken falsely. Some of the facts I have mentioned. I'll wait. Otherwise - with your silence - you will confirm my words. I call on all societies to follow what is happening. And I call on Members to support this request for a resignation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U342	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U343	I have five minutes, huh? Then I'll be quick, Ommies... finished... There's one thing I forgot to tell. So you can understand why Karin hasn't fallen so far. So: there have been talks in the backstages that there should be a new Prime Minister; well, that Karin doesn't even pull... and so on. And then there were several candidates - there was Gerhard, there was Pabrik, and there was Asheraden. I'll tell you about everyone in turn. Why is Gerhard inappropriate? Because he can't be found. They've been investigating - there's no such minister... Yeah, it's like it is, but where is it? Nobody's seen him. Where he is and what he does, no one knows at all. Well, so he couldn't be put down. It came to the conclusion that being too little recognition would mix with someone else... gay defenders, it won't be good. Next was the Pabrik. How about that? Well, as if you could put Pabrika in English and so... But, well, more than dancing, you don't know anything. Buy armoured equipment - only old hlames! Hence, the same would be true: now that the problems are in the healthcare system, you would probably buy everything that is the oldest and the worst. The bed is already trying in that direction with the vaccines, but... Well, Pabrick and... Well, then it didn't really work. And then Asheraden himself wanted a very... Well, it's talking about all those culls... I really wanted it! But you have to understand, omes, if Asheraden were, it would be even worse than now when Karin was; then we would all sit from morning to evening in the working groups. Everybody! There would be working groups at all times, working groups at all times. Then he decided not to do it. There were two persons left, who could be the Prime Minister, because the rest are already... Oh, for Bordan... Yeah, well, there was the idea that Bordane could be put on, but... Well, now Bordan is the Minister for Justice and we've been back in the nineties. If Bordan were a prime minister, then I think we'd be back in 1941. So it's very dangerous for the country. Well, then... It is clear that no one else from the Saeima as a Prime Minister can really be put from its position, two candidates remained - Jaunups and Gobzems. The young man's real... They're afraid, they're... Well, they're afraid to put him down. They know about Gobzem... They realize that Gobzem will be the Prime Minister, but they're looking for... just before Gobzem's premiere, they're looking for Karini's substitute, which would be almost as incompetent to put everything down, because it's clear that if it changed - well, it would change radically - power... If the power were to come into the hands of people who stand up for society as a whole, they immediately have soap. They're gonna have to clean up, let's say, some of their tails where... they've all stolen and corrupted there, and they've done bad things to the people. And it's not a joke anymore! That's what happens. So he's probably going to stay here today if I vote in favour of... actually on the continuation of gambling. But you have to understand that this power simply has no other premieres at Karini level; it is either even worse or more strange. And that's what I don't want to do for Karina. I would like to say that there has never been such an incompetent and so weak premiere during the existence of Latvia, within 100 years. Omes, remember, there's a part of the joke in every joke. But what I say is there's a lot of truth. And I'm just tired of them. I can't help them really anymore. What's the point? That is why I will tell you, through the jokes, what the backstage negotiations are and how we have lived up to the fact that economically in our country is only worse and worse and worse every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U344	No one has applied for a debate. I closed the debate. I'm sorry, Mr. Karins, you have a name.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U345	Thank you, Madam President of the Saeima sitting. Dear Members, Honourable Members! Colleagues! Ministers! Maybe I'll be brief about two things. One is about the situation in which we are now in a country... and also to whom we are going and how we will be able to develop as a country. So first of all, it is inevitable to talk about the situation of the community, as it is in Latvia, as it is in the rest of Europe and the world. We now see that this so-called third wave has spread widely across Europe, including our immediate neighbours, Lithuania, Estonia and Sweden. Thanks to our joint operation, we currently hold this wave in Latvia so that it does not actually rise. We do not fall in common indicators at the moment, but they do not go up either, and that is, to a large extent, thanks to our society, society as a whole, to the serious attitude that society has towards all the limitations. And also the broad sense of society... That is, we all understand why we cannot gather. I would like to express my sincere thanks to all those who do not meet at the moment, who observe the distance, wear facial masks and, to say, not just governments... limitations, but common sense, because by protecting ourselves, we protect our loved ones, of course, and so we will keep people out of hospitals and... Without everyone... Either, expected or known complications that may also occur there unfortunately. This disease is still very dangerous. But there's a way out of everything... It's offered to the whole world - it's through vaccines. So actually, you could say there are two outputs: one is sick, the other is vaccinated. But, you can see, the sickness is that it can end in a very sad way, and it can only be learned after a person is ill. So we don't need to get this disease, we need to get vaccinated. We have done a lot to allow vaccination to take place. So, first and foremost, what the Ministry of Health has done so far. We have a wide network of vaccination points - over 800, there are family doctor practices, there are feldher points, there are hospitals, and there are also these established mass vaccination centres, which have been created thanks precisely to our municipalities. And I really would also like to express my thanks to our local government leaders and... representatives of the Council who, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, have implemented all this. The second question. If the centres are, the infrastructure is - what about the vaccines themselves? Well, at first... We know the mistakes made at the level of the Ministry of Health, but to a large extent we have corrected them. After several weeks of quite intensive work we managed to get more than 400 thousand pots from “Pfizer” in Latvia this quarter. And just now, thanks to the work of the European Commission, it seems that another 200,000 will be on top - at least by the end of the summer, if not quickly. So it is already known that more than 700 000 vaccines are expected from this producer in the course of this quarter. And then, of course, all the other producers... AstraZeneca’s pots, which do not enter the quantities that the State had ordered, but they are, of course, the producer’s difficulties, nothing else. So there is infrastructure, and vaccines in general are in the country, and it is expected that with each week - until the end of the summer - it will only increase in quantity, so the availability will only increase. So, what's left of us? We are left to improve (and I will know that it is not as perfect as I or as we, the whole of society, would like)... maintain... Create... and keep pace, because it is not important for us that someone is vaccinated in a week or a month, we need people to vaccinate as soon as possible so that they do not become ill, because each person vaccinated is one step closer to the collective vaccination or immunity that we need in the country. The safety of the vaccines. There is very much said, and I will recognise that unfortunately there is also a great deal of disinformation in the media and social networks. I am not a doctor, but I invite everyone to contact their family doctor and also to read very widely available medical journal information. If we look at Latvia, we can ask ourselves how many people have died of the community and how many people have died of any complications... from any vaccine? And its statistics unfortunately point to the fact that more than two thousand people - and this is “unfortunately” - have died with the community, but no one in Latvia has died of any complications... none of the vaccines authorised by the European Medicines Agency. I would ask you to put it behind your ear. You know, the risk of dying from a community in our society for any adult is greater than any theoretical risk of any side effect... from any registered vaccine, and this has just been approved by Professor Zavadska, Head of the Council of Vaccination of Latvia at the government sitting. So the pace, line--this is the challenge that is. If we look at Europe, then we listen to an internal political debate that actually... particularly do not differ from ours - in all countries, in all societies, want it to be faster and faster and easier... I, too, am waiting for it and I will wait for it from my Minister for Health. This task is clear and now there is a need to follow up on it. So the way out of the crisis is through vaccination. And I call everyone – when there is a chance, when the line arrives, go and get this free point. It will help to save the lives of themselves and family members, relatives, friends, and loved ones. This is important to all of us. The other thing I would like to talk about is the work of the government as a whole. I am listening to various criticisms here, and it is already expected from any opposition, it could also be a little more structured to do so, but... Well, nothing happened... And I want to remind you - and I think colleagues in the Saeima know it very well - that this is the first government in a very long time, which is not only committed to a number of ambitious reforms, but also step by step... And that's... thanks to you, colleagues, we are putting this into practice together. That is, the first we started with was the reform of the financial sector, which also... criticism of each other from the opposition. However, I would like to remind you that, thanks to this reform of the financial sector, we, as a country, left this barren model of money transfers... Either, you might say, of unknown or questionable origin for money transfers from east to west. And we are freed from it, because it dwindled, literally destroyed, our country's rating and our image in the world, it also greatly impeded the entry of serious and good investments into Latvia. If you think there's only thieves and bandits here, no one's going to invest here. This sector, the banking sector, has now been cleansed. This dirty money... and money transactions are no longer possible in this way, systems are installed, safety systems are, we are on a very good development path. And thanks to this work, our country now has the highest credit rating in history - with the lowest lending rates when we have to turn to the financial markets to borrow money. And maybe not everyone understands it, but... Our Ministry of Finance... In fact, our Treasury... currently able to borrow money in the market at negative rates; this means that people pay Latvia for the fact that we keep their money, and we don't have to pay them interest; in fact, they pay us for storage. So they lend us... we borrow 100... they lend us 100, and they only get 99 units back... So... Well, those numbers... I guess you have to look at... with which release, but... Negative rates - this, colleagues, is the most direct and best result of our financial reform, not to mention the fact that our country is no longer regarded as such when we, as a government, started... when we had a completely disorderly financial sector. Another reform that we have done together - and thank you very many, of course, also to the colleagues of the Saeima, and that is not a small number, because the debate was very long, sometimes sharp, but all of it - is administrative territorial reform. What will this reform enable the country to do? Basically - concentrate resources and forces of development... and in competitive centres. It means not only Riga... If earlier with 110 municipalities... such a fiction that everything will develop smoothly... It is impossible to compare Riga (with almost 700 thousand people!) and small municipalities, where there are currently less than two thousand inhabitants. It is clear that such a small municipality cannot develop under these conditions anywhere in Latvia, Finland, Germany or Sweden. We will simply concentrate now on all activities in major centres, but those centres are quite evenly distributed across Latvia to attract investment to attract jobs. We have where to concentrate housing - this is a very important step; it has not been done for years. Why? For there was always one party in the government, who strongly opposed any reforms. It was always good for this party: let us not change anything, let us leave it as it is. They were good, but the country was not good. In this coalition, we could say that we have broken this negative cycle, and thanks to you, this reform has been carried out for us. Another reform that has actually been carried out (which has yet to be fully implemented) is the creation of an Economic Court. It's actually... partly from the reform of the financial sector, but... The creation of such a competent court is a very important step so that we can continue to attract high-quality investments in the future, because any significant and serious investor feels that the legal environment and protection is at the highest level and that there is competence to examine... of which - financial and economic... Well, let's say, not only the crimes, but also the disputes and disputes. And we will build this competence in our country, and this will help to provide another solid basis for our economic development. However, we are not already in the government who believe that three major reforms have now been carried out. No, we're going on. Colleagues, for us one reform... is currently in the third reading at the Saeima. This is a reform of higher education, a reform of universities. And it is very important that we complete it so that we can, like the administrative territorial reform, focus our efforts on educational institutions that are capable of being competitive on a global scale. We cannot build 50 or 60 universities at global level. If we remain so, then we actually say that we will not have any higher education institutions at world level, we will have 60, well, yes, that's exactly nothing, just good. This reform will enable us at different levels... various universities... develop their excellence, each according to its function, its own geographical importance. This is linked to regions and regional development; smooth development without a reform of higher education is, in fact, impossible. And more. The next reform, which we have just approved in the government after a long debate, including with our social partners, is a reform of port management. Colleagues, this project has now been sent from the Cabinet of Ministers to the Saeima, the Saeima will consider you in three readings. I call on colleagues also to take this reform seriously, as it is also a very important step towards our further development: to create our... or transform our two big free ports into state capital companies. We need transparent and clear governance. Once again: so that we can develop port territories not only as before - there have been cheap exports of raw materials, as we say, from the east to the west, just like cheap exports of money from the east to the west - but also to develop business, to develop local production. And it brings me to the next topic, which is the transformation of the economy as a whole. I argued that we have lost about 15 years of development in our country. Why? Because before this government, no government could... in a long time... agree on the necessary reforms so that we can finally get to a better level of prosperity. That is, by preventing administrative territorial reform, preventing banking reform, preventing such an economic court or strengthening the judicial system, we were decided in a very sad situation: a major state of cheap transit. And what was the power of cheap transit? Colleagues, we all know that. Some individuals have become very rich, but the country as a whole and the country's economy as a whole have never come anywhere. There's nowhere. So these reforms that we are undertaking in general are all tended to change this... and bring what... For about 15 years, we have lost time. I have set myself as the goal of what... I have also talked to you about what I call smart reindustrialisation. Smart reindustrialization is also described in our national industrialization... Yes, an industrial policy that has been approved by the government, which... In simple terms, let us increase our exports of high value added. Whether this reindustrialisation is directly through the production of goods or the provision of services is not important. It is important that these companies are exportable in today's economy. And we have a number of means to promote this. We have a state budget (i.e. taxpayers' money). We have the European Union's multiannual budget (MFF), which is in the seven-year cycles and which we have also fought this time much more than was intended. And the third source is development and resilience... The mechanism of recovery and resilience (formerly also called RRF - from English - is about two billion. All in all, this is 10 billion in the next seven years, which we, as a government, have achieved with the support of the European Union. Now this is a mechanism for development and sustainability. There has been criticism, we have accepted the government... we have worked with our social partners and they have also criticised them. We sent to the European Commission for first evaluation. Of course, this assessment is not that it will be accepted immediately, but there is also a reason for it, because in that first move we were all forced to do not want to go to quite large compromises so that we can only agree. But now we... And also as the ruling coalition... we are continuing to work on this, but this time in close association with our social partners, with workers' representatives, with employers' representatives. Representatives from the Academy of Sciences and non-governmental organisations were also present. And we will redraft this development and resilience mechanism so that it is more in line with the great aim of our country - smart reindustrialisation. This money will not only be mastered but will be invested in making better jobs, better paid jobs in the future. And that includes... We in the government are looking for ways in which we can also support large, significant projects. Large projects, large companies - this is what draws the whole economy forward in all countries; there are other companies around them, including small and medium-sized enterprises, which are often involved in supply chains. And there are three projects now clearly identified to me, which... We will look for the best state aid mechanism, probably through some loans or perhaps guarantees. In particular, one project is precisely about the community: it is the vaccine plant that our pharmaceutical industry wants to develop. And we want to support them on the part of the country. I have already met the relevant Commissioner of the European Commission, Mr Breton, with whom we talked about this, and he was also very supportive. This coincides with both the interests of our country and the interests of the European Union in being more independent in the production of vaccines. So for the pharmaceutical industry, this would be a huge turning point, it would be very well paid jobs, there are research opportunities, everything we need. Another major project is the protein plant planned by our large farmers' cooperatives. And this would be one factory... Many think about added value. Well, I don't know... Let's take the grain... You can sell grain, turn it into a loaf of bread, for example, in order to have greater added value. Here these entrepreneurs are actually... think in very different categories. Such a protein plant would produce raw materials for entirely other industries and products that in the future... It is clear that they will develop. If such a project could be gathered together and presented by our private cooperatives, then on the government's side we would, of course, look at how... whether there would be possible from the mechanism of development and stability or from other means... a way to support it in a meaningful way. And the third such big project is precisely in the forest sector, it has been talked about, and there is some idea of creating a fibre mill. Again - to create high value added raw materials, which would be used further in both Latvian and export industries. In such categories, we speak and think in the government when we look at the future development of our country. Use all our resources - the national budget, the European seven-year budget, the development and sustainability mechanism - to move forward. And this is completely different, fresh thinking and approach, not like what we have had in the past in the country. For years there was a redistributive of resources - which will take over which industry (the development of a monopoly)... and so on. This is a completely different thinking: to develop and support a private initiative... exactly what is export-oriented, what is high value-added projects. Now I have also heard criticism from a number of members of the opposition. That's the same old criticism. It is very infertile, it is a criticism that says: everything is bad. I do not agree with this. In our country is not everything bad and in fact very much goes to the right side. So let us talk about our economic performance as a whole. And here I will refer not to the calculations of the Ministry of Finance, therefore to the government itself, but to the calculations of the independent institution, the Bank of Latvia, and the information they provide, also in public space. We have developed a wide range of support mechanisms within the government since the commodium entered into force. On the first wave (if we looked back, it wasn’t even a wave, that’s a small, small uplift), we developed an idolatrous support, as well as other forms of support. In this second wave, we have intensified it, expanded it and deepened it. In particular, we have broad support for businesses, workers, families with children, pensioners, people with disabilities, health care systems (and thus infrastructure and, of course, also medical professionals themselves - salaries), teachers, home affairs workers and others. In 2020, i.e. last year, the total amount of these aid amounts to 1.3 billion, or 4.5 per cent of gross domestic product. This year, according to the data provided by the Bank of Latvia (the Ministry of Finance has even higher figures, but I will name the figures provided by the Bank of Latvia), 2.7 billion or 8.9 percent of gross domestic product. And what does that really mean is that all these giants... cash support? These aids mean that our economy is not falling (many thought it would fall and fall) but that it is actually expected to grow this year as well. Unemployment. That is the first indicator. The unemployment rate is a very clear indicator of the overall health of the economy. Before the community began, the unemployment rate was 7.8 percent. It's 8.1 per cent today; it's climbed back to 8.3 per cent, but now, for a month now, it's stable... it's falling again. And that is because of these support and the fact that our entrepreneurs are sufficiently able to orient themselves in changing circumstances, to change their business plans and to take new people back to work. This reduction in unemployment is not due to emigration, because nowhere else can fly, anywhere; it is not easy to find a job in another country, because elsewhere there are the same restrictions, and elsewhere there are even bigger economic falls than we do. So this reduction in unemployment is due both to the government... Indeed, support for the economy as a whole, which gives such a big... Whereas the balloon, which is up and up, as well as, of course, the capacity and ability of our entrepreneurs to orient themselves in a changing environment, because where there is a Latvian businessman there is innovation and ingenuity. And indeed - thanks and respect for all businessmen! We will continue to support it, and for as long as there is a crisis and a pandemic, we also need the support and benefits that will be needed... we will also, of course, continue with them. And our GDP forecast is also positive at the moment. This year is expected to be 3.3 percent (this is according to the latest forecasts of the Bank of Latvia, which has been changed upward). So, colleagues, we and... The Covid is a challenge for the whole world, for the whole of Europe, for our country too. Are we going perfectly and smoothly? No, no. Is our government an ideal government, where everyone is completely perfect and knows everything to do completely perfect? No, no. We are people, like others, but the whole government and the whole coalition are clearly focused on specific objectives: to overcome the community, to develop our economy, to develop our education system, to develop our regions, to improve our welfare system, our social care. All these cases are held in parallel. And I want to... I would like to thank the whole public for the active participation and the serious attitude that helps us: in general, now that all the others are going up, we are holding up; we are not going down, unfortunately, but also not going up; there is a certain equality at this time. Together... For the government, for the Saeima, for society as a whole... We will win this plague. I would also like to express my sincere thanks to all Members of the Saeima, colleagues, members of the coalition for your huge contribution. Disputes inside any coalition - this is everyday. In a coalition with five parties, a day without disagreement - it is rather rare. But let us not understand, and I also call on the rest of the Saeima not to understand - if there is sometimes a disagreement, this does not mean that we are not generally very united in our objectives. Our differences are sometimes based on individual, sometimes based on political forces, but in our democratic system we all have the right to speak, to argue and to try to convince other colleagues, and I will stick to this principle and will not depart from it. The debate is not a sign of weakness. Weakness is the people who do not want to let the discussion go and say, “I know better than everyone.” Such people are dangerous to the state. We in the country need people with open minds, ready to argue, and such colleagues, generally we in the coalition... and you are, and I would like to thank you all for this. Colleagues! In conclusion, it is on the subject. I call for this draft decision to be rejected. Thank you for your cooperation, thank you all for your support so far.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U346	Thank you, Mr Prime Minister. It's time for another break. The debate will continue after the break. Only registration of the presence of Members. It's been a success. Interruption until 5 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U347	Dear colleagues, Let's keep sitting. I would like to inform you that the Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Krišjānis Feldman, Jura Juša, Anita Muižniece, Ulda Budriķis and Sanda Riekstins to declare a break at the first extraordinary sitting on 15 April this year in the debate on the agenda item 21 - Draft decision on distrust to Prime Minister Arturas Krišjānis Kariņš - and to continue it at 9 a.m. on 22 April this year, and 15 minutes after the adjournment of the agenda at the first extraordinary meeting on 15 April, the agenda of the second extraordinary sitting of 15 April. Mr. Gobzem, are you going to talk? ( Interface: “Feldman! ” ) Name of Member Krišjānis Feldman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U348	I will speak in favour of this proposal. I'm calling for a break because we've had... I would like to express my thanks to the Prime Minister for the long speech in the debate, which needs to be well thought out, and should therefore be suspended until 9 a.m. next Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U349	Mr. Gobzem, will you speak 'no'?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U350	‘Pret’.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U351	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U352	You're talking so long. I have to go after... I'm going to say 'no' for this reason: BIP, come on, stop trading! You think you're gonna give up something else? They're not gonna give you anything more. Get out of that government, but don't wait next Thursday! Either you're the zusans and the gamblers or you're not. If you support it, you are. If you're not in favour, you're going down once! Today's sunny evening, together after... As I promise you, BIP... I promise you, I'm just good about Sandy Riekstin, I'll say it in the future, just the best. So rush nothing and stop trading! Latkovsky will probably go to offer you something. Mr. Stream, pay attention to this week! There will be interesting events obviously. BIP, get in, you are without compromises. Now don't go to those compromises again! Don't you have any new phones? Have you been on political tourism trips a long time ago? Well, something like that... Let's vote, come on! I'm gonna close my school right away. We are voting today, we are not waiting for that week! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U353	One Member has spoken for, one against. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the application of Member Feldman, Jušas, Muižniece, Budriķis and Riekstins: to declare a break at the first extraordinary sitting on 15 April this year with the agenda item 21 - Draft decision on distrust to Prime Minister Arturas Krišjānis Kariņš - and to continue with it at 9 a.m. on 22 April this year, and 15 minutes after the adjournment at the first extraordinary sitting on 15 April, to start examining the agenda of the second extraordinary sitting on 15 April! Please, let's vote! For - 17, for - 71, for - 1. The proposal is rejected. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please! ( Pause) We can't hear you, Mr. Zarin.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U354	Can you hear me now?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U355	Yes, we do. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U356	What would I like to say when reflecting on this debate? Mr. Kariņš, I'm sorry, but fools can let you in the government, here you won't succeed. In particular, you were asked specific questions: about the OIC sphere, how the new cover is being made in your government; how, in violation of the law, statutory rules are not being adopted so that it can be made... to arrange; for “TITLED”, for the procurement of millions of invalid respiratory equipment, which was carried out by fake documents and by a decision of your government to circumvent the statutory procedure; for the purchase of vaccines, for the attempt by your government minister to hide the truth about them. You didn't answer anything about that. And now you are telling me that those people who do not participate in the debate do not debate that they are dangerous to society. You yourself have now done so. By this you say that you are dangerous to society, because it is you who know the truth better and does not participate in the debate at all. Instead, you said nice fairy tale stories with which... your government has no merit on a large scale. They're all projects that... makes entrepreneurs, it is the merit of entrepreneurs, and they are implemented not thanks to, but despite your government. The fact that you are now promising to revise this recovery plan, to which Europe gives us these billions, in line with the demands of the economy, of the social partners... Do you realize that you're with this... You yourself confirmed the accusation against yourself, showing that your government was unable to develop it... Is that so? Because it really was a disaster: out of that money, 80... more than 80 percent of you were going to learn to the public sector, yourself. Less than 20 per cent of exports were reserved for entrepreneurs, real economy, development. It's just a disaster. Everything you do is a disaster. And now you try to tell all these fairy tales. Come and say more specifically about all these things that you were told about! If you're now saying that everything is okay, that it's all right,-- well, sorry, then you're not just supposed to derision, you should be... to be in principle... sit not in the government, but in another place for all that you are doing, as you have done. And here I am addressing my colleagues - the New Conservative Party. You've heard all this, you've got to make a decision now. You really think that everything that Krišjānis Kariņš is doing right now is honest, brave, smart? Is that appropriate? You will cover all of this, because it is you who are the voice of the gold that will decide today, or this irresponsibility of this permissiveness, this process that destroys our country today, our entire society of Latvia, to continue or not. Your votes will be decisive. I call on you to think about it now that you vote on it all. On the other hand, I call on Krišjāni Kariņa to answer these questions, which you have not answered. If you don't answer them... One of you answered, you admitted that it was a disaster... What you did with this recovery plan... about what was meant for our economy to make this sports breakthrough after... That it's just... It was a disaster. You're going to recycle it now. But where have you been so far? And it's with all your decisions: only when you're told when you hit your fingers, you start doing something. Sorry, it's too expensive to teach you from scratch to do something. Our people, our country, are paying a very expensive price for all of this. And that is why I repeat my question about the OIC, about the purchase of TITTED, about the purchase of vaccines, about all these specific things I have pointed out. What have you done as Prime Minister? If you are a Prime Minister, you should have led these processes, you had to react to it, to all these discrepancies. Do you really think that your ministers are working well and well enough and that such ministers can survive, both the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Health? Of course, it is also right to ask other ministers about what is happening to us in terms of security. I call on you to apply for a debate, come and say all these facts. If you cannot do this, it means that in essence you recognize that you are not in your place and you had to go home long ago. And here I turn to my colleagues from the New Conservative Party once again. Your voices will be decisive today, you will have the opportunity to demonstrate to the general public whether you are really ready to work honestly, courageously, wisely, whether in fact all this was just a lie for your constituents to be in power. Now that you are in power, you have nothing to do with those whom you have promised to fight. I call everyone to follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U357	Name to Member Uldis Augums. Please! Please, Mr. Planty!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U358	Do you hear me now?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U359	Yeah, we hear it. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U360	Good afternoon, honourable head of the sitting, dear colleagues, Prime Minister! I was not prepared to speak today in the debate, but, Mr Kariņš, you yourself challenged me to speak. It's sad if you too, Mr. Karin, think that... Perhaps you have bad counselors who need to be replaced as soon as possible, so that you don't talk stupidity from the parliamentary tribunal that... don't give what you mentioned, investment attraction... On the contrary, with such expressions, you are reassuring investors further and further. You stand up for reforms. Financial reforms have been underway and must be completed, of course. The only thing is that there is such an agility that it is quite difficult for entrepreneurs to credit at the moment, and many entrepreneurs are moving their production facilities to our neighbours because of them. As regards university reform, of course, we are now going through a reform that seems to have to be recast in the future. We are going through port reform, which is just a change in legal governance, without any economic contribution, because I have not seen any economic gain anywhere. Where are we going? We are in the restored free state for the first time after... with all your big ports, your small ports together... behind the port of Klaipeda, behind the port of Tallinn; this has not been the case so far. And that is the fall to a large extent... not what you said about cheap cargoes, about transit, which has long been dead... No, no, no! It has to work on it, and that is what will bring money to the state. ‘ Latvian Railway, which was one of the largest taxpayers, with one of the largest... in recent years... cargo turnover, has fallen... In aviation, we first started military carriages and transits in the Baltic States. Where are we? Today we looked at the data - both in passenger and freight transportation for the first time - during the renewed Latvian Free State for the first time! - We're behind Vilnius Airport. We have lost the Baltic aviation centre. And port cargoes... I already mentioned the same thing. Mr. Karins, get away! I really was best thinking about you. I think you're capable of creating a team. But what do I see? There's no command for you! Where is the success of the ministers - yes, there has been an increase in the number of visits on Twitter, the number of cancellations. But there are no results. What are the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers coming out! That's a mistake! We open flights to third countries, forgetting that we cannot cross the border. Hundreds of people, more, illegally crossing the border... If it takes... And that's a lot of things. Mr. Karins, I really was the best of you. And you're still allowing me to talk stupidity from the Saeima trek! The whole world sees it, I accept it. And what do you give to those entrepreneurs who are currently working in ports, in industrial areas, who have already developed industrial areas for their own money? What can you tell them? Mr. Kariņš, either change your thinking or change your counselors, but this cannot be the way forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U361	Name to Member Ainars Latkovsky. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U362	Colleagues! I was, of course, very interested in reading that... For months, some of those asking for the mission told us, as we remember, that there is no virus like Covid-19 or that it is not particularly dangerous, called facial masks, which are everyday for our doctors, working daily, as well as whirlwinds. Other members of the family who had previously been innocerated by severe restrictions are now innocuous of their high mortality. The government of Krišjānis Kariņš has been able to help the Latvian economy in general to survive this time of crisis quite successfully, helping both citizens and companies. The Bank of Latvia recently increased its gross domestic product forecast for this year from the previously estimated 2.8 per cent to 3.3 per cent. This is linked, by the way, to the government's support measures relating to the second wave of Covid-19. At the same time, Latvijas Banka has also increased Latvia's economic growth forecast for the next 2022 year from the projected 5.3 percent to 6.5 percent last December. Also on the labour market... Latvia has not experienced a rapid rise in unemployment. Yes, in certain sectors, such as catering, housing business, the situation is, of course, more difficult, but the government has been looking for and continues to actively seek finance... support instruments to help sectors most affected by the pandemic. This assistance will continue to be provided by the State and will be provided by different groups in society. During the period up to 2027 Latvia will receive more than 10 billion euros from the European Union's multiannual budget in the form of grants. This is a huge merit of the Latvian Government. Our Head of Government took part in difficult negotiations and debates. At a time when the funding of European Union funds is actually decreasing throughout Europe, it will increase for Latvia. Latvia initially determined that cohesion funds and agricultural positions are our priorities, and this is the result that Latvia will have a little more cohesion resources than in the past, in total more than EUR 4 billion. If we are talking about vaccination, I would like to remind you that every country wants to organise the vaccination process as quickly and successfully as possible, achieving the immunity of the crowd, because it will greatly depend on the country's ability to return to us in such a normal day. Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš has personally engaged in providing additional vaccines to Latvia, talking directly with the highest officials of the European Union... by the way, to correct errors and negligence in the procurement of vaccines. We have a Prime Minister who, with the leaders of powers such as Germany, France and the UK, is able to communicate like that. I would like to remind you that Krišjānis Kariņš mentioned last May the need to use masks so that we can protect ourselves and each other, as well as reduce the virus's potential for spread. Although this call had no support, now the masks are our daily need and our duty. Although the government consists of five parties, which often have very different views, Krišjānis Kariņš and his partners come to the necessary common denominator and find a solution. It has to be said that this government has, despite disputes, been united on important issues; this has not always been the case with government coalitions so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U363	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U364	Thank you. Just like Mr Augiel, I had not planned and would not have spoken in the debate today, but listening to the'success story' that we heard from the parliamentary tribunal today raises a great many questions. The first question is that... It seems to me, however, that there should be some element of self-criticism when assessing any activity, therefore, the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers. And here it is important to look at the guidelines. Much has been said about reforms. Smart Chinese, who naturally lags behind the mind of Mr. Kariņš, said in their own time that it is very difficult to live in times of change. Reform is a change. Let's see where we're starting. Let's start proud of the clean-up of the financial system. I think that Mr Kariņš, as a citizen of the United States, would not be unnecessary - remember, let us say, the situation in the financial sector in the United States. The news that the founder of the biggest money pyramid, a citizen of the United States who had been sentenced for 150 years, had just died in prison. Yes, the result has been there. Let us remember the mortgage crisis, which has also brought about the banking crisis and bank failures. The difference between the United States and Latvia is that the United States prints money on its own. We believe, as Mr Latkovsky has said, that we can ask the European Union for an extra couple of millions, in the form of a gravel, which, by the way, will also have to be given back over time. Therefore, it is unlikely that we should be proud of the reform that has been carried out here, but we should perhaps show what the banking system will bring to Latvia's economic growth. Second example: You talked about successful reform of universities and said that the main argument is that, here, the number of universities will be reduced. Perhaps it would also be unnecessary to remember that there are almost no large or small cities in the same U.S. states without their own universities or other universities. By the number of universities, the United States is well ahead of the whole of the European Union... by total number of universities. So its reform, reducing the number of universities, will not contribute to the quality of higher education. Third example: On municipal reform. This reform was really necessary, it is important, but it is only at an early stage, and all the rosary perspectives that were described in Mr. Kariņš' speech are still standing in front and... It will stand or will not stand - it is very difficult to predict, because the development of territories is not necessarily dependent on the size of the municipality. That, by the way, is also demonstrated by the experience of the United States of America: some micro-districts or districts have been divided up there even in large cities, or disstrictive municipalities as independent and separate municipalities. Therefore, it is not yet an indicator of a united and beautiful activity. I'm thinking about plans. Ideas... I support that idea of reindustrialisation with both my hands, but... To be honest, if you had not listed all these three main examples, I would not even have spoken about it, but now... You have given one example: the vaccine plant. Could it be realised under Latvian circumstances? You could. We have such technical possibilities, but we should not forget that, with one negotiation with one of the European Commissioners... It is not enough because already today Italy is ready to open a particular plant, already today such a plant... is also taking place in Germany and in a number of other countries, including Scandinavia; they are also ready to take on the order of the European Union and organise the production of vaccines for the whole of the European Union. The fact that competition is very fierce does not have any advantages - unfortunately this is also a fact. Consider, for example, another example: very recently. Yesterday, we looked at the European Commission for European Affairs on the issue of a European digital green certificate - a community certificate. Why has this idea been created and appeared as a project of the European Union? With just one aim: to attract new tourists in Italy, Greece, France, Spain to make it easier for them to enter those countries. There was no need to reduce the prevalence of cob infection and strengthen the fight against this infection, but it was only about electronic paper, forgive, and extradition. Once again, under pressure from these countries. In this case, its competition will be at the same level. And the last one. You are talking about what has been done to combat the pandemic. This has been done, of course, but very much has not been done. For one reason, the government is not working as a crisis and a crisis but as a routine. There are no elements of action that would really be typical of work in a crisis situation, because the constant, long and very counterproductive government sittings that make decisions on the basis of the principle of'step forward, two-back' do not show that the government is ready and able to deal with this really serious pandemic world problem under your leadership. And the last one. The only thing I agree with from everything you said in your long and quite empty speech is that it's not all bad. And no one says that everything is bad. Latvia is an independent country, Latvia is rich in strong people - people with high intelligence who are ready to overcome the difficulties, despite the fact that it is as though the government is trying to provide assistance. But in this case... Once again: more self-criticism should be addressed. It's very difficult to run a terror, a suspect terrorism, but if you don't know how to do it, you should go away. I call for this request to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U365	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U366	Hello, honourable Prime Minister! Colleagues! I wasn't going to talk today, but then I heard... Especially about them... You have told us, Prime Minister, that we have lost 15 years of development. I almost fell off my chair! And you have to admit that it is a little strange to hear it from the Prime Minister who is from Unity, because 15 years is about the same period of time that Unity is in power if I am not mistaken. Prime Minister, I absolutely agree with you, I came to the same conclusion myself, but I did so before... about seven years earlier than you. But better later than never, Prime Minister. I have a few more points I would like to say to you. First of all, on reforms. I am afraid that you have a very misconception that any reform is good. That's not the case, Prime Minister. There are reforms that your government is making... Its reforms can mainly be described as a cumulative change. The change in the number of seats will, unfortunately, not change the amount. Perhaps the exception is regional reform. Okay. All in all, we need a thing. Even though I think that now the municipalities understand and understand that from the number of its salt... of those manipulations they combined... average regional sizes - these will not change. And in the absence of even growth with the 80 plus regions, it will also not have even growth with the 40 plus regions. Since the Latgale side was forecast to reduce the population by more than 30 percent in the next... How long it is... in about 10 years, so it will be with the "40 plus" regions, Prime Minister. Go on. Repair of the financial system. Prime Minister, it was possible to close the transit of money from the east to the western countries, all of which could be done much, much easier, without the whole set of exercises that you call the reform of the financial sector. What your government has done is that it has solved the problem or implemented the common geopolitical stance at a huge price - with huge losses for the Latvian economy. What was done with the financial system... The consequences are now seen by both companies and individuals - as regards the opening of accounts - as regards the difficulty in the maintenance of international financial operations... This is a huge price. A huge price! It was possible to do all this much, much more elegant and with much less damage to the Latvian economy, Mr. Prime Minister. Go on. Reform of higher education. I am sorry, Mr Prime Minister, this is the classic addition of places. If your government's declaration is to make at least one of our university's top 500, where most recently, when you wrote that declaration, there was the University of Tartu in Estonia, then nothing, absolutely nothing in this so-called reform of higher education that you intend to do will help achieve its goal. That has nothing to do with this, Prime Minister. By the way, the University of Tartu is now the world’s top 200, not the top 500. For example, these goals... Or Daugavpils University... its name... there will be or there will be no university. How does it deal with something in essence, Prime Minister? Port reform. Well, just like... It's just funny, Prime Minister. You are now saying that port reform is necessary to enable industry and production to develop in those ports, and so on. Prime Minister, this is an example, an example... the port where the industry is developing very rapidly and where investments are attracted is the port of Liepaja. It is the exact port where this reform will not take place. You will transform the port of Riga and the port of Ventspils into capital companies. So, again... This reform has nothing to do with real challenges. How will it help to stop or reduce the drop in turnover in transit? How? Not at all. It's a pseudo-reform - numberable change of places, and that's it. Of that amount will not change at all. All that will bring is a simulation of some activity, Prime Minister. The third point. You praise your success... The fact that, here we are, this year, the economic downturn is much smaller than expected. But, Prime Minister, your government has borrowed how much? Almost EUR 4 billion. This represents more than 10 per cent of gross domestic product. Your government has borrowed much more than it had planned, has it not it, Prime Minister? I think even in the most daring dreams you didn't think you would borrow so much money. The result is that we now have debt levels close to 50 per cent of gross domestic product. And here again, Prime Minister, there's a question, the same thing... as a reform of the financial system. Could the same effect be achieved by much less borrowing? I am convinced that the answer is yes. The State Audit Office has just found that you... For livestock farmers, the Ministry of Agriculture has paid more than they have lost. They have even earned it during this pandemic, Mr. Prime Minister. And this is probably just one example that illustrates the overall picture - absolutely everything your government does. Let's go, Prime Minister. You talked about development. Well, that's... I'm sorry, but what you say about transit and about the financial sector, about the fact that it in some way stopped us, our development... It's a total stupidity, Prime Minister. Mr. Planty here complained about your advisers... I know your advisers - your economic adviser is my former student. Not the best student I've had; it's the Riga School of Economics. Well, think about it, Prime Minister. Let us assume that you will be on a visit to the Netherlands. You tell them, this is how your port of Rotterdam interferes with your development. With all that your contribution... I think about four or six percent of gross domestic product - that is the contribution that the port of Rotterdam gives. Tell them what you are now saying to the Saeima: the fact that you are handling loads is not modern, it is wrong, it interferes with your development. Do you say to Britain: you are hindering the development of the financial sector. Tell Switzerland, tell the United States... by the way, State of Delaware. Tell them that what they do in the financial sector hinders their development. You see it! It is true, Mr Prime Minister, that, unfortunately, for reasons beyond our control, we are suffering both from transit and from the financial services sector. I think it would be normal... I think it would be at least correct: to give it the assessment that it is a pity that it is happening. It definitely narrows our opportunities, it reduces our development, it reduces our budget revenue, which leads to people losing jobs... and so on. But to be happy about it... I think that is very strange: please, Prime Minister. Let's go. It's too positive now. This is your new turn to it... you talked about reindustrialisation... and so on. I really appreciate it very, very high and positive, Prime Minister. You're right. You are absolutely right. What I regret, Prime Minister, is that I am humane that you have come to this truth, both that we have lost at least 15 years in terms of development and that we still need industrialisation, not so... It was the doctrine of Unity for a long time - that its industrialization, industry... Why is it even needed - the industry?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You have come to quite proper conclusions, but I am only afraid that you have come to those conclusions when it is too late, Mr Prime Minister. You said here... All your ideas, vaccine factories, other factories and so on, who will do this, Prime Minister? Are you yourself or your ministers? Have you seen your ministers, Prime Minister? What does your economic minister understand from the economy, Prime Minister? Do you think - how will its factories be, how will all this come about? You are speaking today of the words of thanks to the coalition Members and so... You should have been here in the morning, Prime Minister. You should have heard what those Members of your coalition, for example, from the New Conservative Party, have devoted to their coalition partners, to the Unity, to all. You probably see what they are writing about, also about you personally, in social networks completely public, Prime Minister. You're... What is happening now with the collection of signatures to postpone the matter for the next day? They probably use it to blackmail you. Once again, Mr. Prime Minister, it's probably... exact... what is going on, Prime Minister. So I repeat: I think you are a good person, with good intentions, Mr Prime Minister. And it is good that you have come to the conclusions and to the revelations that are right, which you were not two years ago. I am only afraid that it is too late, Prime Minister, and that with this coalition, with this ministerial team, you will not be able to achieve any... Not reindustrialisation, not... Well, let's see what the vaccination will do... and so on. As I said, I wasn't going to talk today, but... Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U367	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U368	The President of the sitting. Colleagues! Mr. Prime Minister! In a way, I also expressed my respect for you once again in this debate. This list of the reforms you have made, which you have also said, I would like to note, that the only Member of the Saeima who wanted to defend you today in this debate - the leader of your group, who has read a bleak speech, has mentioned various figures... I will touch both on these reforms and on these figures. With regard to these reforms, I mentioned the shadow parties that you did not in any way try to disprove. And with regard to this funding, which has been removed from the municipalities - this is - historically! - The biggest money that's been removed. At the same time, we see how easy we are to invest in airBaltic and let us invest in airBaltic immediately - between 50 and 100 million more are planned to invest in airBaltic. It is, in my opinion, quite crazy on the background that you did not say a word about micro-entrepreneurs, about small entrepreneurs who are suffering the most in this time of crisis, who were most affected by the restrictions. Neither you nor Mr Latkovsky have mentioned how to help them. You mentioned these many forms of support that has been provided in this time of crisis, but you did not mention that even the Board of Fiscal Discipline has recognised that this support has been far too late and perhaps less targeted to be received by those who need it most. And in this case, I would like to draw attention to these small entrepreneurs, to whom these late ones... Walk along the streets, look at it, and it doesn't matter if it's Riga, or if it's another city. The situation is quite dramatic when you look at the store views: these shops are closed, looking for tenants... It's not nice! No one is pleasant, but you have to see a way out. And at this point - these gems, which are about these great billions of Europeans... The European Union's reconstruction fund will have to be returned to everyone and it is therefore important how it will be invested. Reconditioning of train movements... building, restoring to Bolderaja is a particularly interesting project which will invest in the European Union’s renewal fund. At the same time, investments in regions... It is not just about municipalities, but about regions in general... in regions of investment... against Riga investments... It's behind. We are lagging behind, and this situation will be increasingly difficult there. And there are already differences between our visions, what you said about administrative territorial reform. We have different understandings of territorial development and common development of Latvia. Your understanding is: investments - in the centre, investments - where it may not be necessary, but where its investments are most needed, there we are living with what is, and that is very, very, very little. And here I would like to mention the main thing about these forms of fund support - that one thing is that the money borrowed, which is by nature these funds of the reconstruction fund, will somehow have to be returned, but no one yet knows how. And the other thing is about this multiannual budget money. You don't have to put yourself on your shoulder, you have to be critical. And this amount that's got, we can... in comparable units... compare with what our neighbours are. I would like to say: by doing nothing, it would be exactly the same amount as that currently allocated to Latvia. And, of course, in conclusion... I think we - the whole Saeima - gave you a lot of help... for such compassion, voting against this break, so that you do not have to promise any further folly to one of the partners, so that they do not support this request. I think the New Conservative Party... I'll apologize to every member of the JC if I make a mistake... lack of courage to leave this government. They have attached themselves to political positions, they feel comfortable with them, and they will therefore vote against this request for resignation. And by not allowing this to happen even a week later, when you were trampled on for a whole week, we have done a great deal of service to you and we hope that you will devote this time to Latvia to shake its ministers in some way, so that they can finally start working, because I think the government has worked very badly so far. And there are a number of indicators that show it. And the reforms will not ultimately serve citizens, they are only political. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U369	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U370	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues! If I understand correctly from the context, to blame the opposition for a structured form of claims, organized... then it seems to me that the structured speech we have just heard from the Prime Minister does not mean structured and systematic work by the government. And this is demonstrated by a number of events that have taken place in Latvia since last year and this year also due to the impact of the pandemic. We did not see a system approach either in the initial phase after the first wave, when risks appeared and when it was clear that we had to anticipate a number of possible scenarios of action... In several meetings, the opposition pointed to the need for horizontal cooperation between several ministries and administrations to ensure coverage across the whole area in order to mitigate possible risks from the next steps of the Covid-19. Both education and social care facilities... and to provide additional protection measures for medical personnel, as well as... providing for and reviewing the next stages in the field of education - how lessons will be conducted; whether digital tools are provided for children and pupils and students; whether there is an adapted programme, or whether there are ready teachers. And such details and nuances that should have been anticipated last April and summer, which should have been ready for the government closer to the autumn last year... All of this was pointed out by the opposition in several... agendas for both sittings of the Saeima and committee meetings. That's why I think the accusation... for a structured position on the opposition side... is not in place. If we talk about success in attracting money from the European Recovery and Stability Mechanism Fund, there are also very serious and substantial discussions and contradictions with the same partners, namely the Employers' Confederation of Latvia. Both in the first stage when... The government has accepted and the Ministry of Finance has sent the draft recovery fund plan for the discussion of the European Union, the Employers' Federation of Latvia strongly objected and asked to take... its objections to the government and the relevant services, with a higher proportion of economic activity and business environment development, but the government did not take this into account. And still the proportion of public funding... digitisation for public administration... and other instruments relating directly to the financing of the activities of public authorities and the activities of public authorities, not to entrepreneurship, not to competitive undertakings... It remains in use. According to the assessment of the Employers' Confederation of Latvia, only 33 percent of the planned costs in the recovery plan are eligible. 53 percent can be discussed, 14 can be rejected. If it is the achievement that Mr. Kariņš is proud of, then it is a very dubious achievement in my eyes. And this government partner also reiterated the need to take into account all the reservations expressed by the partners in the past. If the government, as the only way to revitalise the economy, is to invest in building the capacity of public administration and increasing digital skills, then we will not see any positive impact on the economy in the long term. I'm sorry. And the debate is also a question of those three strands, because indeed, as Mr Dolgopolova pointed out very correctly, competition for the plant in the field of vaccination and also competition in agriculture, especially for the production and marketing of products, will be quite high. And unlike Latvia, other countries and governments have shown that they strongly defend their internal economic policy and ensure, despite the formal requirement not to apply protectionist policies, national capital and national business protectionist policies. Unfortunately, this does not happen in Latvia. And another moment, which is also very important. If we talk about the fact that here in Latvia, there are great losses from transit, then... I also believe that this is a very unfounded argument why... With a smart, systemic approach, with a risk-mitigation system also in transit, and also with the financial sector, it is very competitive and is able to contribute. In other words, the “capital repairs” implemented by the government is in the state budget minus... about 50 million each year in taxes. About a thousand people lost well paid and high... intellectual jobs because... I personally believe that the IT sector in Latvia also actually developed as an accompanying instrument for the financial sector, the banking sector, which was one of the main customers for the IT sector... and maintenance... financial sector clients. Quick, fast, high-quality and... at a different level. It also distinguishes the Latvian banking system from other systems, which were quite conservative and did not apply new IT technologies in their work. In turn, the Latvian financial sector and banks applied them. Unfortunately, due to the “capital repairs” Lithuania has already come to the forefront when it comes to FinTech technologies in particular in the financial sector. In the start-up area, Estonia is one of the leaders in the European Union and not Latvia. And if we look at all this in general, we also see that the problems and claims expressed by other countries on the financial sector in Estonia were no less limited than for Latvia, but the Estonian government, Estonian politicians chose not to deal with small-histhematic techniques and draconic measures, destroying the sector, but to gradually and systemically adapt their system to the requirements of the services in question - Moneyval and FinCEN. And in conclusion. It seems to me that the fundamental problem that we have is the absence of a systemic policy based on national business protectionism. The fact that, in fact, small and medium-sized business is not too much to show their concern for the services concerned and the policy makers concerned. And all this results from the fact that, yes, there is definitely a small percentage, which, as it is also clearly visible in Latvia, is very good, but they are in a minority, unfortunately. All experts and experts of the European Union also point to this. And a very high percentage of those who live on the poverty line or are on the poverty line - households, especially households, which bring up two or three children or more. And their material situation, their welfare during this period or phase, and during the crisis, unfortunately, have not increased and increased. It must be understood that, in fact, the main function and task of the state and politicians is to ensure a balanced and fair redistribution of the financial resources that the state collects from taxes or which the State attracts through other instruments as appropriate, namely the recovery fund money or the money of other European Union funds. It does not look at the moment - with our GDP per capita - that we have achieved an adequate standard of living, fourth from the bottom of that scale, of country GDP per capita. And it does not seem that our healthcare system is such that the mortality rate from the same community is lower than in other European Union countries. Our level of illness shows that, unfortunately, we are the "first-ranking" in this area. If we are talking about vaccination, including the process as such, we are not ensuring a sufficiently effective and rapid vaccination process. However, we are assured that we are the only Baltic countries in which a vaccination office has been set up, we are among the first to figure out that we need vaccination newspapers, but we do not have vaccines. And that's all that's said. Structured speaking does not mean doing and organising their work in a structured way. And this is a major problem for the government. I will therefore support the expression of distrust to the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U371	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision submitted by Member Gobzema, Stepanenko, Sprūde, Valaiņa, Krauze, Tatars, Plant, Švekova, Dūklavs and Jalinskas “On Distrust to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš”! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft decision was rejected. The final section of the agenda is entitled 'Handling Members' requests'. Opinion of the Panel on the request of Members Viktors Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Janina Jalinska, Jānis Dūklavs, Edgars Tatars, Māra Kučinska, Gundars Dauges, Armands Krauze, Raimonds Bergmanis, Jānis Vacāns to the Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “ Who will answer for the lives of people who will be lost in March due to the absence of vaccines”. On behalf of the Commission, Ivars Puga, Member. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U372	Welcome, colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen! The Panel examined a request from Members Viktors Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Janina Jalinska, Jānis Dūklavs, Edgars Tatars, Māra Kučinska, Gundars Dauges, Armands Krauze, Raimonds Bergmanis and Jānis Vacāns to the Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “ Who will answer for the lives of people who will be lost in March due to the absence of vaccines” (No. 54/P13). In the Commission's vote (4 - in favour, 8 - and 1 - no vote), the request was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2235-U373	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the request made by the Member, Mr Valaiņa, Mr. Plantis, Mr. Jalinska, Mr. Dūklavs, Mr. Tatars, Mr. Kučinska, Mr. Dauges, Mr. Krauzes, Mr. Bergmanis and Mr. Vacans, Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš, who will answer for the lives of people who will be lost in March due to the absence of vaccines! Please, let's vote! - 29, against - 55, abstaining - not. The request was rejected. Dear colleagues, The agenda has been examined. I will present to you the questions put by Members to ministers. Members Ivars Zarins, Valerijs Agešins, Arturs Rubiks, Ivans Klementjevs and Edgars Kucins have submitted a question to the Minister for Health “On the acquisition of “Modern” vaccine”. Members Ivars Zarins, Valerijs Agešins, Arturs Rubiks, Ivans Klementjevs and Edgars Kucins have asked the Minister for Health about the purchase of the AstraZeneca vaccine. Members Ivars Zariņš, Valerijus Agešins, Arturs Rubiks, Ivan Klementjevs, Edgars Kucins has submitted a question to the Minister for Health “On the first procurement of “ BioNTech/Pfizer””. Members Ivars Zariņš, Valerijus Agešins, Arturs Rubiks, Ivan Klementjevs, Edgars Kucins has submitted a question to the Minister for Health “On the 2nd procurement of “ BioNTech/Pfizer””. And Members Karina Sprūde, Jūlija Stepanenko, Aldis Gobzems, Lubova Švecova and Viktors Valainis have submitted a question to the Minister for Health “On vaccination centres in Riga”. Questions will be referred to the Minister. The agenda has therefore been examined. And the registration of the presence of Members has taken place. I'm closing the sitting. Dear colleagues, 15 minutes later, at 18.55, we will continue to work on the agenda for the second extraordinary meeting on 15 April.
