ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! Let us begin the remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on April 22, this year. On the agenda - reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Code of Conduct of Penalties of Latvia” be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the law on the Council of Europe Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters and its Additional Protocols” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Holidays, Remembrances and Markable Days” presented by the Member Kazinovsky, Kiršteina, Jansons, Kursīte-Pakules and Teirumnieks” be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U2	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Recalling the opposition of the Latvian nation to the Soviet occupation power for 50 years, it is equally important to assess both non-violent and armed resistance accordingly. Both during the Soviet period, when it could not be investigated objectively at all, and after the restoration of the state independence of Latvia, the armed resistance of the country is still underestimated and investigated. In the war of Latvia's national partisans, which lasted from 1944 to 1956 and took part in approximately 14 thousand fighters, Latgale played a very important role, where as the first Soviet occupied territory of Latvia, armed resistance began already at the end of the summer of 1944. The recognition of the heroic struggle of our national partisans came so slowly and late that only 3 May 2017 with the Order of Viesturs was awarded the first two members of the armed national resistance from a couple of dozens of the then living national partisans. In the historical memory of the Latvian people, it is our national partisans that the struggles have survived as a symbol of resistance - the most important form of national resistance that lasted for 12 years. In particular, armed resistance took place in the territory of the former Abrene County, later Viļaka County, in North Latgala. This is probably due to the addition of a part of Abrene County to Soviet Russia. The most important national partisan battle was held on March 2 and 3 of 1945 in the Stompaku bog islands of Viļaka County, which is the largest battle in the history of the Latvian national partisan war. About 350 Commander of Latgale Forest Breeders Peter Supe won a heavy battle with the numerical force of the attacking Czech troops, remaining unspeakable, and, in an organized way, avoided the threatening siege and additional losses. Regardless of religion and nationality, many citizens of the former Latvian Free State, following the invasion of Soviet troops and the occupation of Latvia, conducted a fierce, armed resistance. For example, Russian men from Bubnu village, Linava parish took part in the Stompaku battle. This parish, as well as five more parishes and the city of Abrene were already located in Soviet Russia. In time, the Czech power did its own, but the spirit of patriotism did not break our nation’s longing for the independence of Latvia. After the restoration of independence in the territory of the former Abrene County, the present Prize and Viļaka sides, several memorial signs were installed in the armed resistance areas of the national partisans. Such memorial places are located in the town of Balvu and Viļaka, Berzpils, Tilžas, Rugāju, Lazdukalns and Vīksna and, of course, Susēju parish in Stompaku bog. Each year, commemorative events are organised instead of the Stompaku battle on 2 and 3 March. These events involve citizens, school young people, representatives of the Land Guard and the New Guard, as well as many others. Therefore, we propose that the Saeima establish the Day of the National Partisan Resistance Remembrance - March 2 - as a confirmation of the indisputable heroism and clear state desire of the Latvian people. This proposal is also based on a letter addressed to Members of the Saeima, in which a number of important and well-known people have supported this date on 2 March. Among these are the following: Ainārs Bambals (Expert of the Latvian State Archive), Lidija Lasmane (Member of the National Resistance Movement), Ģirts Valdis Kristovskis, Leo Hiršsons, Dagnija Liepiņa, Pēteris Simsons (Member of the Presidium of the International Association of Former Political Prisoners and Communism Victims), Edgars Skreija (Chairman of the Latvian National Warriors Association), Vilnis Šmidbergs (Component), Jānis Vasiļevskis (a regional researcher), Elita Vedemane (journalist), Zigurds Vidiņš (Director), Armands Zvirbulis. Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U3	Thank you. ‘ Ljubova Švecova, a Member, has applied to speak against’.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U4	Thank you. Hello, colleagues! There are many pains in Latgale, many wars passed over it. There are no easy and simple solutions in the story, and interpretations are not simple and easy. Latgale also has old-believer villages and old-believer graves... And why am I going to vote against? Because old-believers tombs in Latgale, the Queder Ages, have a buried family - mother, father and seven children. They were burned. They were burned alive. Only one child survived - mother threw him out the window, and he ran into the woods. This family was burned up by these, such as the partisan movement. What do I mean by that? I would like to say that there are no easy solutions or simple interpretations in the war and events that have taken place, and I will not be able to go to the graves of the old-believers and look into their eyes if I know that there is a tomb near where this family is buried - mother, father and seven children. Those who burned life are buried there. That is why I will vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U5	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Holidays, Remembrances and Markable Days” establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 61, for - 19, for - 1. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Patients" presented by the Members Skride, Rūkšāne-Ščipčinska, Čakša, Teirumnieka, Krapāne, Dauges, Nemiro, Golubeva, Baumane, Voika, Bikše, Zamara and Pūce be referred to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is a commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ‘ For” said Andris Skride, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U6	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Colleagues! Listeners! Let me tell you a little about the substance of the bill... on the substance of the planned amendments to the law. Each patient has the opportunity to opt out of treatment as long as he/she is operational, but when a person is unable to make a decision, the individual’s autonomy is not taken into account. Regarding unplanned situations... There is no single mechanism in Latvia as a general... in writing, legally binding to formulate the patient’s will for such cases. In my daily life as a doctor, I am confronted with such a thing that the patient often carries with him, say, in writing... would write such a sign that... Well, if he is already very ill, for example, with some serious oncological disease or severe heart failure, and if the patient’s heart stops, the doctor, as always, should, say, resusciprocate, close down life-saving equipment, artificial ventilation (sometimes even more complicated devices are added). But, I must say, in these cases of extremely serious diseases... Of course, the patient is connected to such equipment, but that result is still one - that the heart is already for us... As says, the heart is autonomous, we can restore heart activity, but the brain is already suffering... And the result after a week or two, when the patient is artificially ventilated, is, as they say, all known. Therefore, in fact, such amendments will make this patient's will... It will only apply to the following... patients with pre-existing terminal illness. Of course, we will continue to discuss this draft law specifically in three readings, involving both the Latvian Medical Association and patients' organisations, with which we have already discussed the draft law at the stage of development (the patients' organisations also supported such amendments). Therefore, my fellow Members, I am calling for this draft law to be passed on to the commissions... to the commission, so that we can work already. And I remind you again: this will apply to patients who are already terminally ill, about whom we know that... okay, if we connect, let's say, artificial ventilation, man another week... we can still vent, but that's... In fact, the patient will be able to opt out of this stage by registering, for example, his desire in the electronic health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U7	Colleagues! The vote has been requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Patients’ Rights” to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 57, for - 16, for - 2. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on “Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Property” presented by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission be referred to the Commission for Economic, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance” presented to the Social and Labour Commission by Mr Valaiņa, Tatar, Kučinska, Dūklava, Vucana, Plant, Dauges, Krauze, Stepanenko and Sprūde be referred to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U8	Highly honored, honourable head of the Saeima sitting - Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! This package of amendments is a specific form of support for our entrepreneurs who... We could complement the amendments to the Microbusiness Tax Act already supported by the Saeima and submitted to the commissions, because it is precisely the section that adopted last year's budget... will have a direct impact on small businesses. These minimum social contributions... Now it's the first... we receive the first signals that this burden is too great, especially in the context of the Covid-19 crisis, where the small business is most affected. And just the little ones, these self-employed... hairdressers, artists... I don't care what... These minimum social contributions, which are now... with last year's budget,... It would be right to postpone them for some time. We also had consultations with the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which also agrees that this would be a solution - some way to improve the environment for small entrepreneurs, some way to improve their situation, do not take them even more into the shadow economy, because now... both with all the amendments and with all the restrictions and other decisions taken by the government, there is a rather difficult situation for small businesses, and postponing these minimum social contributions would be a completely correct step towards small businesses in some way. The impact on the budget is, of course, but if we look at how public money is currently spent on various aids, we clearly understand... We have received a signal that the country has money, and if the country has money, it would be right to help those who need it most in this crisis. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U9	The vote is requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance” to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! About - 33, against - 47, refraining - 2. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Ports” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U10	Hello, colleagues! So I'm going to talk about passing the draft law on to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. On 9 December 2019 – International Anti-Corruption Day – the USA announced sanctions for Aivars Lembergs and several legal entities, including the Freeport of Ventspils Authority. The Saeima, together with the government, had to respond urgently so as not to paralyse port activities. On 14 December 2019 amendments to the Law on Ports, which instructed the Government to assess the compliance of the Latvian port management model with the international principles of good governance, came into force and by 1 July 2020 to submit to the Saeima a draft law on changing the Latvian port management model. The draft law on changes to the Latvian port management model was drafted after hearing the views of various social partners, entrepreneurs, municipalities and government representatives, Ministry of Transport. On 13 April this year, the government decided to hand it over to the Saeima, after reaching the best possible compromise between the parties involved in the decision. During the development of the draft law there were also consultations with the European Commission and confirmation has been received that amendments to the Law on Ports and the transformation of the Latvian port management model... The conversion of ports into capital companies does not raise any concerns from the point of view of State aid. The amendment to the Ports Act provides that the State will invest in the share capital of the existing managing bodies of the ports in the form of capital companies. The creation of capital companies also offers the possibility to participate in municipalities by investing in the property and assets of the municipalities in the port area. Thus, the preconditions for balancing the interests of state and local government and effective cooperation are created, and local governments will continue to actively participate in ports, control the use of their property and respect for the interests of local government. The draft law also provides for a number of other significant improvements. A Port Cooperation Council will be set up for each port to increase opportunities for entrepreneurs working in the port to engage in port development issues. The establishment of port charges will be more open, with a delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to issue a procedure for setting the tariff levels for channel charges and port services. In turn, the handling of complaints about infringements of the provisions of the EU Ports Regulation, about port services, was delegated to the Ministry of Transport and the Competition Council. The amendments provide for facilitating the use of port states for the purposes of certain control services, clarify the regulation of the rights and obligations of the master of the port and provide a clearer framework on how port authorities can provide services and contribute to the competitiveness of ports and port undertakings. At the same time, the transitional provisions of the draft law provide that changes to the Liepaja Special Economic Zone Management Model and amendments to the Law on the Special Economic Zone of Liepaja are made, stating that first (but not later than 31 March 2023) it is necessary to evaluate the results of changes to the port management model in the ports of Riga and Ventspils, as well as the implementation of financial and non-financial objectives of the Liepaja Special Economic Zone Administration. Subsequently, a decision on the establishment of a capital company for the management of Liepaja Special Economic Zone will be taken. The draft law provides that the entry into force of amendments to the law... Within nine months, the State and the municipality will agree on the establishment of a capital company to perform the functions of the administration of the port of Riga and the participation of the municipality in the joint stock company “Ventspils port” - to perform the functions of the administration of the port of Ventspils. Changing the management model will ensure political independence in the operation of the port, respect for public interests and professional and transparent management of port work. In the long term, changing the port management model will contribute to the development and competitiveness of ports as a strategic state of Latvia. Please support the referral of the draft law to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U11	Thank you. ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U12	President of the Saeima! Colleagues! When Farly Linkaith took office, he mentioned that he would never be a priority in the field of transit and that he would work in other areas. The Prime Minister has already spoken the same texts. Unfortunately, all of this also has results, and this is reflected in the drop in cargoes in the ports in Ventspils and Liepaja... Ventspils and Riga have been the most affected. If we look... In the middle of the Baltic States... there are, however, governments that are thinking more about this issue, and there these falls - irrespective of the international situation - are substantially smaller, but they have succeeded in maintaining cargo volumes. We have unfortunately failed. And that's to a large extent from... From the point of view of political signal transmission... If we look at this prepared draft law proposed by... I thought... at this time of crisis, the government is offering... talk about OECD principles, talk about good governance, but how can we talk about good governance, if the draft law in its very foundations is prepared in a way that is not in accordance with the laws adopted by the Saeima! And here I am referring to Article 88 of the Law on State Administration, which provides that it is very important for every public person to assess before establishing a capital company... It lays down the principles in which it should be assessed... to be, or not to be, a new capital company, but this has not been done in this case. And that is very important. If we look at European examples... where these capital companies have been built... there are equally important things that should be mentioned. First of all, the port of Rotterdam... There's a much more important analysis that everyone can get acquainted with when looking at business associations... the legal analysis prepared by the port host society on how the port of Rotterdam has been built and what are the basic principles that this capital company is doing, what it does not do and how it has reached all the time... There is nothing similar in this law. On the contrary, Article 88 of the Law on State Administration has been significantly violated. Local governments were mentioned here, of course, but the fact that in this offer the state side takes over most of the part, in principle takes over full control and, in a way, nationalizes the local government's property. For example, if we look at the same in Ventspils - 42 per cent of the territory of Ventspils municipality is freeport of Ventspils, 54 per cent of the territory of the Freeport of Ventspils administration belongs to the municipality. The same applies to Riga - a very important part of these properties, this land belongs to the municipality of Riga. But here, as a capital company, it is proposed to nationalise the land of the municipality in principle and take over it in the ownership of the new capital company, where the municipality will have a practically very minimal role to play in influencing any decision at all. And that, in my opinion, is absolutely wrong. If we look at international examples, then in Rotterdam 70 percent of this capital company... managing the municipality, and they are also moving back to the model of the public administration. If we look at efficiency, industrialisation policy, it is essential to look at what has happened so far. If we look at the same port of Ventspils, we can see that there are three thousand new jobs - since the start of industrialisation policy in the municipality... in this free port area. Of course, most of this has been on the initiative of the municipality... If the state is ready to undertake this work, then... Illustrate just one example where the country succeeded in organising such works in a centralised way. I think one of the most important things that is here at the moment is that it can be quoted on the stock exchange or simply privatised in the form of a capital company. Colleagues, ask yourself: are we really prepared to go against the road that all developed ports within the European Union are going to? And when we look more... that, however, the municipality takes on this key role... Here we go the way of such a new experiment... It's also a very bad quality... poorly prepared. I call on us not to support, give back to the government and draw up this bill properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U13	Colleagues, let's vote! Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Ports", which states that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 55, for - 13, for - 14. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Barn Courts” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item is "Transfers of draft law to commissions and 1st reading". The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the recognition of Basela Jakubs as a citizen of Latvia” presented by the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Public Alignity be referred to the Commission for Citizenship, Migration and Public Unification, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. And we start first reading of the bill. on behalf of the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity - Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U14	Good morning, colleagues! This draft law is designed to recognise the citizen of the Republic of Lebanon, Basel Jakubu Vahbi, as a citizen of Latvia. Vahbe has resided in Latvia since 1999, when she began studies at the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Latvia. In 2005 he received a doctor’s degree, and in 2013 he received a doctor’s qualification in neurosurgical. During his residence between 2008 and 2014, he worked as a medical practitioner at the Emergency Medical Assistance Service. By 2020, he worked at Pauls Stradins Clinical University Hospital as a neurosurgeon. Currently, the Children’s Clinical University Hospital is the chief doctor of neurosurgery at the Children’s Neurology and neurosurgical clinic. Specialise in the treatment of epilepsy. The hospital describes Vahbi as an excellent professional, understanding and supportive colleague, a honest professional enthusiast who, with his personal qualities, inspires young residents to learn neurosurgery. The excellence of Vahbes' doctor's activities is also demonstrated by the unique Latvian-led operations in the field of child neurosurgical surgery, which are recognised as one of the most complex operations in neurosurgical sector in the Baltics and in the world. In 2005 Vahbe founded a family in Latvia and is now raising a daughter. In 2017, he started the procedure for acquiring citizenship of Latvia, as well as passed the tests laid down in the Citizenship Law. To complete the process of naturalisation, he must give up his homeland, the Republic of Lebanon. This can only be done by coming personally to Lebanon or its foreign representation, which is currently burdensome due to Covid-19 restrictions. Similarly, long-term absence is not desirable - to ensure continuous availability of neurosurgical services. At the meeting of the Commission, Vahbe acknowledged that he was ready to do so: to renounce Lebanon's citizenship in order to become a citizen of Latvia. At the same time, he has also admitted that it is not an easy decision for him, because he was born in Lebanon, it is the land where his family members live, and both Lebanon and Latvia are in his heart. Taking into account the circumstances of the individual situation of Vahbes, the outstanding contribution to the development of child neurosurgical and neurology, the unselfish assistance in training of young specialists, research, diagnosis, treatment and prevention of child neurosurgical diseases, and taking into account the information relating to Vahbi, as well as the fact that he passed naturalization examinations, the Saeima Commission of Citizenship, Migration and Public Reconcilability unanimously supported his recognition as a citizen of Latvia. The Commission considers that Vahbem has established a lasting legal link with Latvia in time and space and that the acquisition of citizenship meets both the objectives of the Citizenship Law and the interests of the state and society of Latvia. His desire to obtain Latvian citizenship has been expressed by the Children's Clinical University Hospital and its Chairman Ābols, Pauls Stradiņš Hospital Chairman Muccins, Paeglitis, Chairman of the Board of the Riga Eastern Clinical University Hospital, Strautmanis, Chairman of the Latvian Society of Child Neurologists and others. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U15	Is the Commission asking for this draft law to be declared urgent?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U16	Yes, of course, the Commission asked for it to be declared urgent and to be supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U17	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “On the recognition of Basela Jakub Vahbes as a citizen of Latvia”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent. And the Commission asked for support at first reading. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the bill “On the recognition of Basela Jakubs as a citizen of Latvia”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U18	In view of the support that has just been expressed, on behalf of the Commission, I am asking you to support the draft law now at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U19	Thank you. Please activate the section on the procedure. Are Members opposed to the second reading of the draft law without re-examination by the committee responsible? Members have no reservations. We can vote in favour of the draft law at final reading. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On the recognition of Basela Jakubs as Latvian citizen” in the second, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Congratulations to Latvian citizen Basel Jakubu Vahbi! We shall proceed to the examination of the agenda with reports from the Saeima Bureau on the own-initiative proposal submitted. The Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications has submitted its own proposal – the draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 700 Latvian citizens’ collective application “Keep University in Latvian Regions””. Please activate the section on the procedure. Are Members opposed to examining this own-initiative proposal at this parliamentary sitting? Please apply if there are objections. There is no objection. We will therefore begin to examine the draft decision submitted. So on the agenda - the draft decision “On the further progress of the 10 700 Latvian citizens’ collective application “Keep University in Latvian Regions””. Member of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications Raivis Dzintars.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U20	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, On 15 March 2021 the Saeima received a collective application from 10 700 Latvian citizens “Save universities in the regions of Latvia”, requesting a minimum numerical criterion – 4,000 students – not provided for in the University Law. On 14 April this year, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application of the Saeima examined the collective application and listened to the initiative representative, who pointed out that the criterion to be included in the Law on Higher Education – 4000 students – was not scientifically justified. This would apply to Liepaja and Daugavpils universities, where currently there is no one and where, taking into account the demographic situation, it is also impossible to achieve such a number of students. The representative stressed that the change in the status of these universities would further reduce the number of students in the regions, as well as have a negative impact on scientific development in Latvia. The Commission also heard representatives of the Education, Culture and Science Commission of the Saeima, who informed that the committee responsible had already refused to include the quantitative criterion in the Law on Higher Education. However, given that overall the discussion on the criteria is still... Further to the university type criteria, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application decided to refer this Latvian citizens’ initiative to the Education, Culture and Science Commission of the Saeima for further evaluation, and on the basis of the fourth and fifth paragraphs of Section 131.5 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, the Commission prepared a draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 700 Latvian citizens’ collective application “Keep University in Latvian Regions”. Colleagues, please support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U21	Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 700 Latvian citizens’ collective application “Keep University in Latvian Regions””! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. The next section of the agenda is entitled ‘Conclusion of the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust’. The decision ‘On the approval of the Anastasia Passjuga as a district (city) court judge’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U22	Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 14 April, the draft decision ‘On the approval of the Anastasia Pasjuga as a judge of a district (city) court’ was considered. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Anastasia Pasjugus to be approved as a district (city) court judge without any limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U23	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the approval of the Anastasia Subjugas as a district (city) court judge! Please, let's vote! For - 80, for - no, for - 1. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the dismissal of the judge Rita Bruces from the position of judge of Zemgale district court. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U24	During the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 14 April, the draft decision “On the dismissal of Rita Bruces, a judge of Zemgale district court from the office of a judge” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Rita Brucis, a judge of Zemgale district court, to be released from office of a judge at his own wish - due to his retirement pension. Thank you very much to the judge for her work, for the fact that the duties of the judge were carried out in good faith. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U25	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the dismissal of Rita Bruces, a judge of Zemgale district court from office of a judge”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law on the accession of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Denmark to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the National Defence Department of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Republic of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the Slovak Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Slovak Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the establishment, administration and operation of the Centre of Excellence of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation for Strategic Communications and the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the National Defence Department of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Defence of the Federal Defence of the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of National Defence of the Kingdom of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of National Defence of Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the United and the Ministry of Defence of Great and the United Kingdom of Northern Republic of Great and the Ministry of Northern Ireland. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Member Krista Baumane.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U26	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues and colleagues! We work with Law No. 930/Lp13. This draft law provides for Denmark's accession to the NATO Strategic Communication Centre of Excellence. The Foreign Affairs Commission examined the draft law and supported it for the second reading. No proposals were received for the second reading of the draft law. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second, final, reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U27	Please call me! We will vote on draft law on the accession of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Denmark to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the National Defence Department of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovakia and the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the establishment, administration and operation of the Centre of Excellence of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation for Strategic Communications and the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the National Defence Department of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Defence of the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Republic of Poland and the Ministry of Defence of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Supreme Command of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of North Atlantic to the Republic of Defence on the Strategic Strategic Strategic on the Functional Strategic Strategic on the second, final reading Please, let's vote! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law on the accession of the Department of Defence of the United States of America to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the National Defence Department of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania and the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the establishment, administration and operation of the Centre of Excellence of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation for Strategic Communications and the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the National Defence Department of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Federal Defence of the Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Italy, the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of National Defence of the Kingdom of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of Defence of Poland and the United Kingdom of Northern and the Ministry of Defence of Great and the United States of Northern Republic of Great and the Supreme Command Transform, Transform, Headquarters, Staff Headquarters, S. Member of the Commission on Foreign Affairs Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U28	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! So we work with Law No. 929/Lp13. With this draft law, the Defence Department of the United States joins the NATO Strategic Communication Centre of Excellence located in Riga. No proposals have been received, and I can congratulate the United States with its accession to NATO StratCom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U29	Please call me! We will vote on draft law on the accession of the Department of Defence of the United States of America to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the National Defence Department of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Italy, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the Slovak Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the establishment, administration and operation of the Centre of Excellence of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation for Strategic Communications and the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the National Defence Department of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Defence of the Federal Defence of the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Republic of Poland and the Ministry of Defence of Great and the United Kingdom of Northern Republic of Northern Republic of Lithuania on the functional relations of North Atlantic. Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Occupation Museum of Latvia”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Evija Papule.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U30	Thank you. Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima and colleagues! Currently, see the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Museum of Occupation of Latvia” (No. 575/Lp13) at third reading, I would just like to remind colleagues that this draft law is directly related to the amendments to the Construction Law. The Commission has received one proposal, which is a proposal submitted by the Legal Office, to exclude the legal reference to the time of entry into force of the law contained in the draft law. This is precisely because the Saeima on 15 April of this year has examined and adopted the relevant amendments to the Construction Law. Since these laws should enter into force at the same time, this proposal from the Legal Office is supported by the Commission. I also call on the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U31	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U32	Thank you. I therefore call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U33	The Members of the debate are not... So... Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Museum of Occupation of Latvia” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Forest Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Dūklavs.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U34	Good morning, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Forest Law” (No. 772 Lp13). The draft law is ready for third reading. The Commission has received five proposals, four of which are those drawn up by the Commission. 1. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Talking about the relationship between owners and the rights and obligations of the State Forest Service and municipalities to provide information about real owners, if you have to cross their territory in some important works. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U35	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U36	2. - also a proposal from the committee responsible. It's purely technical. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U37	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U38	Also 3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The issue of the expropriation of forest areas, as appropriate, is related to adjoining areas. It was also a very important addition to be clear on how to act on these issues. This proposal is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U39	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U40	4. - The proposal of the Minister of Justice of the Prime Minister. Talking about the Minister... or more precisely, the Cabinet of Ministers shall adopt appropriate laws and regulations by 1 September 2021 in order to ensure a clear framework on the updating of forest inventory data. This proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U41	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U42	And 5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is stipulated that “the amendment of the law on the addition of Section 4 with Part 2.3 shall enter into force at the same time as the corresponding amendments to Section 2, Paragraph Three of the Law on the Sale of Public Property (with the provision that the Ministry of Transport may transfer the right of tree felling to the public limited liability company “Latvian State Forests”). This supplement was needed to be clear about private... respectively the forest lands... on tree felling... non-public property. This proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U43	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U44	Thank you. I therefore call on the Commission to support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U45	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Forest Law” in the third, final, reading! Please, let's vote! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “The Law of the Bank of Latvia”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U46	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear sitting viewers and listeners! I report that the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission has examined the draft law “Law of the Bank of Latvia” at first reading (No. 983/Lp13) and a large package of accompanying draft laws. This draft law would make a modern law for our central bank, because the current law “On the Bank of Latvia” has been in force since 1992. The draft law also determines the activities of the Bank of Latvia after the addition of the Financial and Capital Market Commission. In order to implement the incorporation of the FCTC into the Bank of Latvia, the framework law governing the activities of the Bank of Latvia has been revised by nature and is reflected in a new draft law due to the large amount of amendments. It is planned that the new law - the Latvian Bank Law - will enter into force on 1 January 2023. The responsible authorities have been working on these amendments for a long time. The combination of a central bank and a financial and capital sector supervisor will bring several benefits. Most importantly: a more effective opportunity to promote financial stability and mitigate systemic risks, taking into account a wider mix of knowledge and skills and a faster exchange of information and its better use; a more comprehensive view of developments in the financial and capital markets, as well as more effective action in situations of financial stability shocks and crisis; greater efficiency in the implementation of macro-prudential policies and micro-prudential supervision; the possibility for the competent authority to implement a more effective administrative process in relation to decision-making and contesting; the promotion of a more coordinated and effective financial sector; and savings in staff, financial and material resources in the medium term. The new draft law defines the principles of operation of the Bank of Latvia, including bank tasks, governance structure, financial issues, as well as the role of the central bank in the implementation of the macro-prudential policy. The draft law defines the competence of the Bank of Latvia and the necessary legal instruments for regulating and supervising the activities of the financial market and its participants, requirements for ensuring bank statistics, as well as special requirements for protecting the bank's information. The assessment of the merger of the institutions identified a number of significant risks, such as a higher concentration of influence in the financial system and a potential for recourse to central bank assets in the context of micro-prudential and resolution decisions, but, as the Commission has repeatedly expressed, all of these are manageable risks and are regulated in the new framework. By recasting and merging the law “On the Bank of Latvia” and the law of the Financial and Capital Market Commission, the draft law is divided into seven sections, including transitional provisions to the new legal framework. At the same time, the law “On the Bank of Latvia” and the Law of the Financial and Capital Market Commission will be repealed with the coming into force of the draft law. It is important to mention that the regulatory framework developed has been aligned with the European Central Bank. The draft law and the whole package are discussed at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission at first reading on 13 April and supported, and the draft law “The Law of the Bank of Latvia” and the accompanying package in the Saeima are planned to be read in three readings. Please support the draft law “Law of the Bank of Latvia” at first reading by the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U47	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U48	President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, In 2018, when 13. The Saeima started work, the Latvian financial management and supervision sector burned in blue flames. One of the largest banks in Latvia was put on blades... and withdrawal of the licence. A criminal appeal was brought against the Head of the Central Bank of Latvia and, of course, in this context, the desire from you, colleagues, was that something should be done. Some steps were taken immediately, but in parallel with the Ministry of Finance, the Bank of Latvia, the Financial and Capital Market Commission started work on modern regulation, which is reflected in the draft law “Law of the Bank of Latvia” as well as other draft laws that we saw at the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, and it has, in essence, now transferred its work to us for evaluation. What is important is that this initiative is also supported by the European Central Bank and that we, as the responsible members of the euro area and the members of the European Central Bank, do so because our commitments require it. Therefore, colleagues, I am grateful to both the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank and the Financial and Capital Market Commission for their work and I invite you to support the adoption of these laws so that a new era in the Latvian financial sector can begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U49	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U50	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Apart from what the previous speaker said, however, I would like to point out a number of significant shortcomings which, unfortunately, have not been resolved in this draft law tabled by the Ministry of Finance. And these shortcomings are so important that I think if they are not removed in second reading, we will not be able to adopt the draft law at all. First. The draft law does not include the degree of attraction of supervision. By combining the commission with the central bank, there are a number of problems that were pointed out in the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers last year, when the Cabinet conceptually decided to support this merger. I think it is quite natural that the applicants themselves have in their argument (I quote): "No consensus has been reached on what would be the best level of central bank integration in supervisory matters, because it is impossible to assess in general, objectively and consistently the advantages and disadvantages of each particular aspect of supervision transferred to a central bank." In other words, it cannot be concluded that the view in favour of supervisory integration with the central bank is superior to the view in favour of separation of those functions. The question is, if the applicants themselves are not sure that they have to... And the answer to our question in the Commission was something like this: “Well, but you in the Saeima made us combine these things.” The second point, in my opinion, is that the draft law does not incorporate the degree of attraction of supervision. This merger poses quite a major problem. For example, our neighbours - Finland and Estonia - have joined the supervisory authority with the central bank, but leaving each chapter completely independent, namely the supervisory authorities, which are integrated into both the central banks of Estonia and Finland, are completely independent, and no claims are brought against the bank themselves in the event of legal proceedings, but against the supervisory authority alone. So this is the most important thing, I think... This is the most important problem and risk that should be addressed and incorporated into this draft law. The Ministry of Finance itself pointed out last year that the function of supervisory resolution and activation of the defence system might also have a potentially negative impact on the reputation of the central bank, which is an essential prerequisite for the implementation of monetary and micro-prudential policy. But the greatest risk is the conflict of interest. Thus, the concentration of the greater influence of Latvijas Banka in the financial system creates a conflict between monetary policy, macro-prudential supervision and micro-prudential supervision. I will give you one example. Latvia is small, and the presidents of private banks also often know the President of the Bank of Latvia very well, and for example, a private bank is experiencing problems... Perhaps its problems are small, but now there is a lack of funds for capitalisation. The President of this private bank calls the President of the Bank of Latvia informally and says: “Well, lend me some 200 million! I'll go out, and I have valuable securities that I can pledge: Moldovan state bonds... “ A year later, of course, the bank goes bankrupt, it turns out that these securities are of zero value, and everything ends as usual in Latvia - with all kinds of guarantees, loans, starting with all... “Baltija” bank, “Parex” or, let’s say, state intervention and assistance to “Liepājas metalurgs”, alcohol woundes and so on. Money disappears, and there is no one to blame, because who could have predicted that such N government bonds would lose value... which is given for a bell. What is happening now? In this case, at present, if there is the independence of the panel... The Commission concludes that there is a proper assessment and, if that conclusion is negative, there is no request from the Commission to the central bank, to say, to provide any financial assistance or to reinstate that bank, which will fall early or late. In Latvia, I think that financial stability is not so thorough that we claim that in the coming years several banks will not, let us say, turn to aid. In this case, if combined, the claim is directed against Latvia... The request is submitted to the Bank of Latvia. It decides itself, gives money itself, decides which bank to save and not to save. This is a major conflict of interest, in my opinion. If the supervisory authority had its own independence, it would in any case be safer. The last thing I want to say is the most important one. Of course, there is a high risk that the bank that will be decided to sink will start legal proceedings, because, as the American saying or saying says, “If the law could be interpreted unequivocally, there would be no need for lawyers”. And there are enough lawyers to initiate successful cases. So in this case, they will bring the case not against the supervisory authority, but against the Bank of Latvia as such. If this bank is international, something big... it will not be Latvia, but it will operate in Latvia and have some claims, for example... hypothetically, “Citadele banka” will have some claims and will initiate legal proceedings, then the assets of Latvijas Banka, which is one hundred million, can be preserved. We are told, yes, that the assets of Latvijas Banka cannot be preserved by law. Well, forgive me, the decision of the international court will be extremely “important” what will be recorded in the Bank of Latvia Law. It's just funny! So if we had 11 banks merged and nine European countries were not merged... There was no... In fact, in the euro area countries there was no joint commission with the bank... out of these 11 mergeds, however, this independence, the supervisory authority, has been preserved. And then that proportion is the opposite: in most of the European Economic and Monetary Union, the supervisory authorities are independent, and in a minority there are those that are combined. Given that Finland's financial system is incomparably more stable and yet they have far-reaching separation of supervision from banking activities, I think that it would be a mandatory requirement in Latvia, which should be incorporated. Second reading - definitely. Otherwise, there is no point in this draft law, and as I read here from an annotation, which is the most funny, the co-legislators themselves say that they are not sure that this merger is the best. The last one. I think that obviously the binding rules should also be changed... in the transitional provisions, the date of entry into force of the law. It is now 1 January 2023. I think it should be written, June 30, 2023. Why? Because the new Saeima, which will start work in November 2022... Good if the government is successful by the new year. I think that the new Saeima and the new government should also be given the opportunity to analyse this law, and if they really believe that it is very good and that this merger is successful, then it will be possible to enter into force on 30 June 2023. I think these are the main points. The merger must, however, achieve the full independence of the supervisory authority by excluding both conflicts of interest and any litigation against the central bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U51	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U52	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law on the first reading of Latvijas Banka Law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U53	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Law of the Bank of Latvia” at first reading! Please, let's vote! For - 84, for - no, for - 2. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U54	The deadline for submitting proposals is five weeks - 27 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U55	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 27 May this year. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers’, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U56	Let us continue with the draft package. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers’. Nine amendments, mostly technical. The draft law provides for ensuring that, as a result of the addition of the Financial and Capital Market Commission, Latvijas Banka will in future fulfil the tasks set out in the Law on Alternative Investment Fund and their managers and the legal acts subordinate thereto, specifying the procedure for exchange of information between institutions. The draft law relates to the addition of the Financial and Capital Market Commission to the Bank of Latvia and provides for norms, which refer to appeals against administrative act in accordance with the established administrative law. The draft law does not provide for any changes to the current arrangements for payments by financial market participants, but specifies the existing procedures. In the Commission, the draft law is supported at first reading. I also call on the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U57	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please have a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U58	The deadline for submitting proposals is five weeks - 27 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U59	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 27 May this year. Draft law: Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U60	The purpose of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Markets in Financial Instruments” is to ensure that, as a result of the addition of the Financial and Capital Market Commission, Latvijas Banka will continue to fulfil the tasks set out in the Law on Markets in Financial Instruments and related legal acts. Most technical amendments. This draft law is supported by the Commission. I call on the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U61	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please have a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U62	The deadline for submitting proposals is five weeks - 27 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U63	The deadline for proposals is 27 May this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Investment Management Companies”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U64	The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Investment Administration Companies” provides that contesting and appealing of decisions taken by the Bank of Latvia does not suspend their activities. This is intended for situations where swift and effective action is needed to impose certain obligations on an investment management company and to restrict its rights. The draft law provides for clarification of the funding regulation of the Bank of Latvia, taking into account that the basic principles and delegation to the Bank of Latvia to determine the amount of payments of financial market participants regulated and supervised by it, as well as the procedure and time limits for the calculation and execution of these payments are laid down in the draft law “Law of the Bank of Latvia”. The draft law does not provide for any change in the amount of payments currently made by financial market participants. The Commission has supported the draft law at first reading and is also asking the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U65	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading draft law on Amendments to the Law on Investment Management Companies! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U66	The deadline for submitting proposals is 27 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U67	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 27 May this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Investor Protection Act”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U68	The draft law “Amendments to the Investor Protection Act” provides for a number of amendments. The draft law excludes Article 10 of the law on monitoring of compensation costs, taking into account that the delegation to the Bank of Latvia to ensure supervision of compensation for investments by financial market participants will be laid down in the Law of the Bank of Latvia. It is also planned to clarify the regulation that requires investment service providers to make contributions to the Bank of Latvia in order to provide compensation in the event that the investment service provider is unable to fulfil its obligations towards the investor in full and within the time limits. The draft law also contains technical amendments. The Commission supported this draft law. I also call on the Saeima to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U69	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Investor Protection Law” at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U70	The deadline for submitting proposals is 27 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U71	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 27 May this year. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Credit Register Act’, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U72	The draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Credit Register” provides for a number of amendments, both technical and substantive. The aim is to ensure that, as a result of the accession of the Financial and Capital Market Commission, Latvijas Banka will continue to fulfil the tasks set out in the Credit Register Law and the related legal acts. These amendments will enter into force at the same time as the Law of the Bank of Latvia. The implementation of the administrative procedure established by the Credit Register Law after the change of the management model in the Bank of Latvia is regulated, the possibilities of using the information to be included in the credit register are expanded, as well as amendments related to the Regulation of the European Central Bank, which provides for the collection of certain types of detailed data in the... certain credit from euro area credit institutions. This first-reading bill has been supported by the Commission. I also call on the Saeima to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U73	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading draft law on Amendments to the Credit Register Act! Please, let's vote! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U74	The deadline for submitting proposals is 27 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U75	Thank you. So, for this draft law, too, the deadline for the proposals is 27 May this year. Dear colleagues, It's time for a break. Before the break, I would like to inform you about two things. First of all, a meeting of the Saeima Bureau is planned to decide on the organisation and agenda of the second remote emergency sitting on 22 April this year. The preliminary agenda includes two draft laws - draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” (No. 1051/Lp13) and draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” submitted by Members (No. 1048/Lp13). So the Bureau will decide to convene the second remote emergency session, the work So the Bureau will decide to convene the second remote emergency session, agenda and time. Second - notification... other intonations. Dear colleagues, On 18 April, our fellow Member Jānis Cielen celebrated the half-round anniversary, and today's birthday is for our fellow Member Andris Skridem, and we welcome them! (Applause) Colleagues! So, before the break, registration is still. Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U76	Dear Members, honourable Members, We are continuing the examination of the agenda of today's first remote emergency session on 22 April. We shall therefore proceed with the examination of draft laws from agenda item 26. Draft law “Amendments to law on settlement finality in payment and financial instrument settlement systems”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U77	Hello, honourable leader of the Saeima sitting, Madam President of the Saeima, colleagues, audiences, listeners! So we continue to work on the legislative package accompanying the draft law “Bank of Latvia Law” related to the state-of-the-art law of the Bank of Latvia and the activities of the Bank of Latvia after the addition of the Financial and Capital Market Commission. This draft law “Amendments to the Law on Settlement Finality in Payment and Financial Instruments Settlement Systems” contains several amendments – both technical and substantive. The aim is to ensure that, as a result of the addition of the Financial and Capital Market Commission, Latvijas Banka will continue to fulfil the tasks of the Financial and Capital Market Commission laid down in this Law. At the same time, the amendments also provide for requirements relating to payment and financial instrument settlement systems, provide for the exclusion of a provision on the information to be included in the rules of the system, and for the exclusion of the obligation of the system operator to inform the Financial and Capital Market Commission of the rules or amendments thereto. The Commission has supported these draft laws at first reading. I also call on the Saeima to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U78	Thank you. Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the law on settlement finality in payment and financial instrument settlement systems”! Please vote mode! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U79	The deadline for submitting proposals is five weeks - 27 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U80	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals requested by the Commission is 27 May this year. The next item is the bill “Amendments to the Deposit Guarantee Act”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U81	The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Deposit Guarantees” concerns the addition of the Financial and Capital Market Commission to the Bank of Latvia and provides that Latvijas Banka will in future manage the Deposit Guarantee Fund. An article on the right of the Bank of Latvia to borrow the missing amount on the Latvian, European or foreign market or from another Member State is clarified if the deposit guarantee fund does not have sufficient funds for the guaranteed remuneration costs under this Law. The range of borrowing opportunities is extended to include not only credit institutions, but also other Latvian, European and foreign financial market participants. In the Commission, the draft law was approved at first reading. I also call on the Saeima to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U82	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Deposit Guarantees”! Please vote mode! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U83	The deadline for submitting proposals is 27 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U84	Thank you. There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 27 May this year. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Private Pension Funds Act, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U85	The draft law “Amendments to the Private Pension Funds Law” provides that contesting and appealing decisions taken by the Bank of Latvia does not suspend their activities. Provision is made for situations where it is necessary to take swift and effective action by imposing on a private pension fund certain obligations and restricting its rights. Provision is also made for the right to impose sanctions on the Bank of Latvia and the Financial and Capital Market Commission for the provision of financial services without prior permission until the entry into force of the Law on the Bank of Latvia. At the same time, the procedures for exchanging information between institutions are also specified. The Commission has supported this draft law at first reading. I also ask the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U86	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Private Pension Funds"! Please vote mode! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U87	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 27 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U88	Thank you. The proposals for second reading should therefore be submitted by 27 May this year. Next draft law “Amendments to the Corporate Income Tax Act”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U89	Amendments to the Law on Corporate Income Tax related to the addition of the Financial and Capital Market Commission to the Bank of Latvia. Article 2, second paragraph, point 9 of the Law provides for the exclusion of the Financial and Capital Market Commission from the list of entities not subject to corporate tax. Both of these amendments are technical and were supported by the Commission at first reading. I also call on the Saeima to support the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U90	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Corporate Income Tax Law”! Please vote mode! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U91	This draft law also has a deadline of five weeks - 27 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U92	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the second reading of the proposals for this draft law is 27 May this year. Next draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Funded Pensions”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U93	The draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Funded Pensions” mainly contains technical clarifications. The arrangements for the exchange of information between authorities are specified. This draft law is supported by the Commission. I also call on the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U94	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Funded Pensions” at first reading! Please vote mode! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U95	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 27 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U96	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the second reading of this draft law is also 27 May this year. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Distribution of Insurance and Reinsurance, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U97	All amendments to the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Distribution of Insurance and Reinsurance” are of a technical nature and are related to the merger of institutions. In the Commission, the draft law is supported at first reading. I also call on the Saeima to support the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U98	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Distribution of Insurance and Reinsurance”! Please vote mode! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U99	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 27 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U100	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals to this draft law for second reading is 27 May this year. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Insurance and Reinsurance, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U101	The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Insurance and Reinsurance” is mostly technical amendments related to the merger of institutions, as well as the respective Latvian Bank and Financial and Capital Market Commission, until the date of entry into force of the Law on the Bank of Latvia, have the right to impose sanctions on the provision of financial services without receiving a corresponding licence. The draft law also provides for procedures for the exchange of information protection and limited access to information. The draft law is supported by the Commission. I also call on the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U102	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Insurance and Reinsurance”! Please vote mode! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U103	For this draft law, the deadline for the second reading is also 27 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U104	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is set at 27 May this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Crea-issues Companies, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U105	Draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Creeding Companies’. Technical amendments mainly. The arrangements for the exchange of information between institutions are specified, and the right to impose sanctions is established if the Financial and Capital Market Commission finds that the activities of a credit institution are carried out without a specific authorisation. In the Commission, the draft law is supported at first reading. I also call on the Saeima to support the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U106	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Creeds Companies”! Please vote mode! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U107	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 27 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U108	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is therefore 27 May this year. Draft Act Amending the Law on Credit Institutions, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U109	The draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions’ provides for technical clarifications in relation to mergers of institutions and also provides for procedures... clarification of the arrangements for the protection of information and the exchange of information with limited access. This draft law is supported by the Commission. I also call on the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U110	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions! Please vote mode! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U111	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 27 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U112	Thank you. The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 27 May this year. The next item is the first reading of the draft law Amending the law on the renewal and resolution of the activities of credit institutions and investment firms. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U113	Draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Restoration and Resolution of the Activities of Credit Institutions and Investment firms is related to... These amendments are all technical clarifications relating to the merger of institutions. This draft law is supported by the Commission. I also call on the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U114	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Restoration and Resolution of the Activities of Credit Institutions and Investment firms! Please vote mode! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U115	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is five weeks - 27 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U116	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the second reading of the draft law is 27 May this year. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U117	The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money” provides for various technical amendments, as well as in essence provides for the addition of the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money to the regulation regarding registration, supervision and liability of foreign exchange trading companies. Provision is also made for the introduction of a registration and supervision fee for the exchange point. The draft law also specifies the procedures for the exchange of information protection and limited access information. Provision is made for the financing of new tasks of the Bank of Latvia - the right of a certain supervisory authority to impose sanctions if it is established that the operation of the payment system or the issuance of electronic money is carried out or payment services are provided without receiving or registering an appropriate licence. The Commission has supported the draft law at first reading. I also call on the Saeima to support the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U118	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money”! Please vote mode! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U119	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 27 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U120	Thank you. The deadline for the second reading of the proposals is therefore set at 27 May this year. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia””, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U121	The draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Latvijas Banka”” provides for a number of amendments on the right of the bank council to create committees in the area of cash circulation and purchase and sale of currency, to set up an audit commission on the remuneration of the board and employees, the structure of the Bank of Latvia. Transitional rules, the Financial and Capital Market Commission and the merger procedure of the Bank of Latvia are also regulated... the procedure of admission and the way in which employees are transferred to the Bank of Latvia - conditions and guarantees. In the Commission, this draft law is supported at first reading. I also call on the Saeima to support the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U122	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia”! Please vote mode! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U123	The deadline for submitting proposals is five weeks - 27 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U124	Thank you. So for this draft law, we can submit proposals for second reading by 27 May this year. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Financial and Capital Markets, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U125	The draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Financial and Capital Market Commission” supplements Article 20 of this Law with the third paragraph – responsibility of the Financial and Capital Market Commission for the actions of an official, employee or trustee in the performance of his duties. It also complements the transitional provisions with the maintenance of the internal control system... the Board's responsibility for maintaining the internal control system to ensure the preparation of the financial statements for 2022. Provides an obligation to save... hand over documents in the National Archives of Latvia. This draft law is the final part of the draft law package at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, but there are other draft laws in other commissions, and the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has also given a positive opinion on them. The draft laws were also supported by the Commission. I call on the Saeima to support the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U126	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on the Financial and Capital Markets"! Please vote mode! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U127	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 27 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U128	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 27 May this year. The next item is the draft law on the law on movement of goods of strategic importance, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U129	I'm sorry, the camera's on. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Members, honourable Members, In its meeting, the Foreign Commission looked at the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Movement of Goods of Strategic Importance” at first reading. So, colleagues, the draft law "Amendment to the Law on the Movement of Goods of Strategic Importance" is directed at the same time... As we can see, all previous draft laws are related to the draft law “The Law of the Bank of Latvia”. As we know, this draft law concerns the addition of the Financial and Capital Market Commission to the Bank of Latvia. The aim of the draft law is to ensure that the law on movement of goods of strategic importance is harmonised in compliance with the draft law “Bank of Latvia Law”, without making a reference to the structure of the Bank of Latvia at the level of its administration, but to apply the regulation laid down in the law on movement of goods of strategic importance to the Bank of Latvia as a state institution in general. In view of the above, an appropriate amendment is necessary, according to the law, that the special authorisation (licence) for the commercial activities of goods listed in the Common Military List of the European Union is not necessary for the Bank of Latvia as an institution and not for its separate unit. The Law would no longer strengthen a specific unit of the Bank of Latvia - the Defence Authority. The Commission supported this draft law at first reading. I also call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U130	Thank you. Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendment to the Law on the Movement of Goods of Strategic Importance". Please vote mode! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U131	Proposals for second reading shall be submitted by 6 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U132	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals (Sound interruption) ... Colleagues, sound is fine. Consequently, the deadline for the second reading of the draft law is 6 May this year. The next item is the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Latvia”. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U133	Dear Members, honourable Members, The Foreign Affairs Commission, following the necessary amendments to the draft law “Law on the Bank of Latvia”, also viewed the draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia”. Thus, we strive to ensure that, as a result of the addition of the Financial and Capital Market Commission, Latvijas Banka will continue to fulfil the tasks assigned to the Financial and Capital Market Commission by the Law of the Republic of Latvia on National Sanctions. These amendments are mainly of a legal nature by means of appropriate amendments to other laws governing the functioning of financial market participants, which define the competence of the Financial and Capital Market Commission. In the Commission on Foreign Affairs, the draft law was approved at first reading. I also call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U134	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Latvia”! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U135	Amendments... I am sorry that the proposals for second reading should be submitted by 6 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U136	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 6 May this year. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Diplomatic and Consular Service, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U137	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Thus, when concluding the package of amendments supported by the Foreign Affairs Commission related to the draft law “Bank of Latvia Law”, we see the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Diplomatic and Consular Service”. The aim of the draft law is to ensure that the Law on Diplomatic and Consular Service excludes the regulations regarding the specialised attaché of the Financial and Capital Market Commission, as well as the new governance model of the Bank of Latvia from the law. At present, no specially authorised official has been appointed as a specialised member of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission. It is also not intended to appoint such a special reserve in the period prior to the addition of the Financial and Capital Market Commission to Latvijas Banka. The relevant norms are excluded from the law. On behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U138	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Diplomatic and Consular Service! Please vote mode! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U139	Proposals for second reading shall be submitted by 6 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U140	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 6 May this year. The next item is the draft law amending the insolvency law, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Edgars Kronbergs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U141	Hello, Madam President. Dear colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendment to the insolvency law” (No. 960/Lp13). At its meeting on 14 April, the Legal Commission has examined the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Insolvency” and has supported its examination at the first reading of the Saeima sitting. ‘ Amendment to the insolvency law’ means a package containing the draft law ‘Law on the application of exclusions to qualifying financial transactions’ and amendments to the three related laws. In fact, the draft law “Amendment to the insolvency law” consists of a reference to the draft law “Law on the application of the exclusion netting to qualifying financial transactions” in order to provide for the exclusion of payments to qualified entities and transactions in accordance with the principles and rules laid down in the law on the roof of the new institution within the scope of the insolvency law. On behalf of the Legal Commission, please support the first reading of the draft law amending the insolvency law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U142	So Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on insolvency law! Please vote mode! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U143	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is five days - by 27 April.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U144	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 27 April this year. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Criminal Law, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juris Jurash. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U145	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, honourable colleagues! At its meeting on 14 April this year, the Legal Commission conceptually supported the draft law “Amendments to Criminal Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 971/Lp13). The draft law was designed to implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on combating fraud and counterfeiting of non-cash means of payment. The Directive lays down rules on the definition of criminal offences and sanctions in the fight against fraud, counterfeiting and other illegal activities affecting the cash-flow of the European Union in order to strengthen protection against criminal offences. The draft law clarifies the legal framework established by the Criminal Law for fraud and counterfeiting of non-cash means of payment. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U146	Thus, Members have not applied for a legislative debate on the draft law. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on criminal law. Please vote mode! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U147	The deadline for submitting proposals is April 27.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U148	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 27 April this year. The next item is the bill "Amendments to the Law on Immigration" (No. 896/Lp13), first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U149	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! The draft law prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Immigration” provides for the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 25 September 2020, stating that the decision of the Minister of the Interior on the inclusion of a foreigner in the list of persons whose entry into the Republic of Latvia is prohibited will be subject to judicial review only, not as previously stated, that this appeal takes place to the Prosecutor General. The draft law also provides that that decision by the Minister of Home Affairs will also have to include a reasonable motivation. In the Commission, the draft law was approved after hearing the institutions. I call for support to be given to this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U150	Thank you. Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! Vote on the draft law on amendments to the Immigration Law (No. (896/Lp13) first reading support! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U151	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 29 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U152	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals (Sound interruption) ... The technical shell has been removed. Consequently, the deadline for submitting the draft law for second reading is 29 April this year. The next item is the bill "Amendment to the Law on Immigration" (No. 901/Lp13), first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Vita Anda Steel. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U153	Hello, dear colleagues! The current Immigration Law provides for granting the right to employment without restrictions to a foreigner who has applied for refugee or alternative status in Latvia, if the decision on this status has not been taken within six months. This draft law proposes to reduce this deadline to three months in order to promote employment, integration and socio-economic inclusion of asylum seekers. The amendments concern only asylum seekers. They do not extend the current Immigration Law framework with new groups, but allow people who have arrived in Latvia and whose applications are examined to take care of themselves and their family. I would remind you that the national allowance for asylum seekers for the period pending the examination of the application is three euros per day. This proposal results from the national obligation to treat asylum seekers and asylum seekers' rights. If a country needs a longer period for examining an application, the country does not prevent an asylum seeker from entering into an employment relationship in order to maintain himself and his family while waiting. If an asylum seeker receives his refugee or alternative status, he/she automatically acquires the right to employment, but if he/she does not, he/she must leave Latvia in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Immigration Law. In 2020, 92 asylum applications were received in Latvia. On average, applications are examined within four months, so the impact of these amendments on the labour market in Latvia is negligible. The draft law on identical content has been reviewed and supported in the Cabinet of Ministers. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption supported the draft law at first reading. I also call on the Saeima to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U154	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U155	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Hello, colleagues! Hello, the audience! These could be one of the shortest amendments of 13. The Saeima is watching and has seen, but they will affect the lives of several people, for which Latvia has assumed responsibility. In the draft law, we encourage us to shorten six months to three in terms of job opportunities for people who have applied for asylum in Latvia, because they are threatened with life and security in their country, and who do so in accordance with international refugee law. These changes became particularly relevant after the presidential elections in Belarus on 9 August 2020 and subsequent protests and persecution of peaceful citizens. Latvia was one of the countries that actively supported opportunities for activists to flee persecution and find refuge. After a successful arrival in Latvia, Belarusian citizens encountered a problem: while examining your application, you can't work, you can't do anything. Often people fled without documents, and when examining the grounds for granting asylum seeker status, the work of the Latvian institutions retracted. At the moment, work can be started, as we have heard, if tests last longer than six months. It is clear that it is not easy to survive with the money that is given to asylum seekers - three euros per day - so about 90 euros per month. Many of these people with their professional contribution can be useful to Latvia. However, there is no concern about the impact on the labour market, as changes to the law can be estimated to be used by up to 100 people over the year. We also discussed amendments in cooperation with non-governmental organisations that provided support to Belarusian activists at this time, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has actively participated, and discussed the experience of other countries, Latvia's international commitments. I am pleased that this bill was supported by the Commission. We also discussed the security aspect, and it is important that the Latvian authorities can carry out their inspection work without delay, but people must be supported at that time. These amendments will not require additional expenditure from the budget, but there will be good support for people who have suffered and for whom Latvia has now taken responsibility, for all asylum seekers, both from Belarus and other conflict-affected countries. Since August, these amendments would have affected slightly more than 50 people, many of whom are still waiting for the adoption of this draft law. Please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U156	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U157	Dear Saeima! In the address you heard just now, you could hear such a typical method of demagogy as you are being deceived. These amendments will not only apply exclusively to Belarusian citizens, to some honesthearted people who have fled from repression. This will apply to all asylum seekers coming from all countries of the world. It is known that there are indeed people among these asylum seekers who are asylum seekers in the immediate sense of the word and who can also receive refugee status or subsidiary status after all relevant procedures have been completed, but there are also economic immigrants. Migrants who knowingly pay smugglers enough money to bring them to Latvia through the Russian Federation. Often even these sums of money are not a secret. Many who have travelled, i.e. through this network of smugglers, have raised sums of up to 10 000 euros. They consciously destroy their identity documents before entering the Republic of Latvia and burn them. In Western countries, it has been practice not only to burn documents but even to destroy fingerprints in a deliberate way - or to burn or otherwise - so that they cannot be identified. It has also allowed in many Western European countries not only honest people who are fleeing the war and seeking refuge, but criminals, including those who have later committed terrorists in the Western countries. However, this is a matter of security, and I think we do not need to artificially soften those procedures that have allowed... Well, in fact, Latvia also works effectively enough... allowing the security authorities to assess, carefully assess which persons qualify for refugee or alternative status and which persons pose a threat to national security or are simply economic migrants. I therefore call for this draft law to be rejected and not to be seen further.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U158	The floor in the debate for Member Evia Papule.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U159	Thank you, Madam President. I call for support for this draft law for a number of reasons. First of all, because the policy implemented by Latvia against people waiting for the various consequences of decisions of state institutions is unfair. Very few countries around the world allow something so people to be disrespectful as pay three euros a day and think that it is enough. Also 90 euros per month is not enough to maintain one person in Latvia, yourself, or, if the amount increases, to support the family. It is not a secret that there are several refugee statuses and statutes in Latvia, similar to those in the world, but it is not acceptable to do so. Therefore, I call on you to support the proposal that people who for various reasons seek asylum in Latvia and may choose... If the institutions have verified the documents and concluded that it is fair and the persons have chosen to stay and work in Latvia, then, of course, they will seek work as soon as possible, because, as you know, support for further provision or finding of a place of residence is not very... very, let us accept the state at a conscious level, because it is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture, and to some extent the colleague has already said a little bit, I will allow you to say that I am disdainful about other people who are not Latvian citizens. At this point, I would like to call for support for the draft law, debate it in the Commission and be friendly to... including the Belarusian people who are now looking for a free state for free action. They are really based on professionals. We have discussed here how to support entrepreneurs in making it easier for them to register their companies in Latvia and not to choose our neighbour Lithuania simply because there is a group of people (including the Saeima) who think that they should not support such honest people. Secondly. Well, I said... to a certain extent even regarded as a lack of trust in the public authorities that examine the documents... It does not seem justified. In these institutions as well as immigration services, people seek the most in good faith... also in situations where documents may have been lost. And indeed, there are cases you mentioned, Mr Dombrava. If we are talking about students who want to study at higher education institutions in Latvia - there is also a very thorough examination of documents, which is not comparable, of course, to obtaining refugee or asylum seeker status, but the employees of this institution do this professionally. In the relevant commissions, such as Mr Judine's Commission, you can also hear for a moment how serious the work is going on. Doubts about the work of Latvian professionals - I would not be acceptable. And also to mention it as a reason why people who want to live and work in Latvia should not be allowed to do so faster, so that these three euros - to a certain extent, people's unworthy funding... be complementary to what is more - therefore, with the opportunity to work. Thirdly. It would probably be important to look at statistics, how then there are really such people who choose Latvia seeking asylum and who then stay in Latvia, and then doubts about the security of the country would probably be other conclusions. Fourth. I, of course, agree that (and this is related to the experience of all countries) there are people who, for other reasons, including those mentioned by Mr Dombrava, may want to get to Latvia and in some way, I will say, play a different game, but how many people? And it has (I return to what has already been mentioned) strong professional institutions in Latvia that provide security for the country. Consequently, I call for support for this proposal and for a modern state in the 21st century, including seeing that our citizens too tend to travel and come somewhere else for other reasons. Economic refugees should not be at this point, either to some extent offend, because these are also our citizens, let alone, of course, asylum-seeking. I invite you to support the proposal and discuss it in the Commission and later in the sittings of the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U160	The name of Member Inese Voika for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U161	Dear Mr. Dombrava. I would like to advise you to listen more carefully to what your colleagues say before insulting them with lies, but perhaps you had already written this speech before you heard the rapporteur and also what I said. We do not write the law to citizens of one country. We write laws for all asylum seekers... That's what they are. Your speech also gave you other misleading ideas about how asylum seekers' policy is implemented in Latvia. The asylum seeker (and their draft rapporteur carefully outlined) is involved in this... The asylum seeker, while examining his application, has one right, and then either he receives... the applicant’s permit or asylum is not due and is expelled from the State. We are talking about the fact that our public authorities need careful work to ensure this security aspect that is taking place at this time and, accordingly, in this common picture, we need to support those people for whom Latvia has taken responsibility, including the persecuted Belarusian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U162	Colleagues! Five minutes are left until the next break. Mr Dombrovskis, will it be enough for you to have five minutes in the debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U163	Yeah, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U164	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U165	Dear colleagues, I cannot understand here the position of the National Alliance on this issue. On the one hand, we see that the National Association is so much in principle against this symbolic step, I would say. The effect of this step is measurable... At least at present, it could affect only about 100 people and it will not have any significant effect on the labour market or on anything like this. On the other hand, as we all know, the National Association is politically responsible for the Foreign Affairs Commission, and this Commission quite regularly offers all of us resolutions and statements aimed at supporting the Belarusian opposition and now... I understand that the Ukrainian opposition will soon also be present. At the same time, on the one hand, when calling on these representatives of the opposition in Belarus, it is possible to continue demonstrations by giving them support in words to risk their health, their lives in this way, but on the other hand, if some or perhaps even a few of these people have to seek asylum in Latvia, the National Association is opposed to reducing this period from six months to three months. Well, I would have called on the National Association: every time we see this resolution of the current words of support from the Foreign Affairs Commission, we should add such a post scriptum that - if you have some problems and you have to seek asylum in Latvia, we are against you, by the way, to work in three months' time and not in six months' time. I think that would be just right. Then the head of this Foreign Affairs Commission, a representative of the National Alliance, also in his talks with representatives of the opposition (both the real and the false as far as I understood) from Belarus, Ukraine or Russia, should also make it quite clear that we are in favour of you, but this support is in words - if someone, so to say, serious soaps, then you cannot really count that we will welcome you in our country as refugees and give you a full chance to earn some money for your life and so on. I think that it would only be right if you were to do so. I, my fellow Members, call for this draft law to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U166	Thank you. Dear colleagues, It's time for a break. We will continue the debate after a break, as it provides for a number of sittings of the Saeima committees. We have to stop in time. Only registration of the presence of Members. It's been a success. Interruption in the sitting - by 13.30 a.m. Thank you. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U167	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. See the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Immigration” (No. 901/Lp13). And the debate continues... Name of Member Anita Muižniece. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U168	Hello, dear colleagues! Given that this is only the first reading, it would initially seem possible to support it, and in future, in the debate on the initiative, to carry out an in-depth assessment of the various aspects of inconsistency, which Mr Dombrava has also mentioned in his debate. This would make it possible to ensure, for example, that security structures pay close attention to these individuals by mitigating the risks of abuse of the norm. But if Members Vjačeslav Dombrovskis and Evija Papule apply for the debate and are passionately defending this truly mixed proposal... initiative, at least I have a signal. You know, the red lights light up, which makes us very careful to take into account the sympathys that have been observed by these Members in their previous activities, for example, in the country of Latvia and other, in my opinion, anti-state phenomena. Now I will certainly vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U169	We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U170	Hello, colleagues! First of all, I would like to inform you that we spoke about this initiative at the meeting of the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity. We had the opportunity to listen to experts. I understand that some colleagues have concerns and perhaps some fears, perhaps doubts, but I supported this proposal, and I will support it today. One of the speakers mentioned that the story is about 100 people. No, it's not about 100 people. If we have together about 80 people a year who are seeking refuge, we need to understand that they will want to work with them, perhaps by some 13. Well, there are children, there are people who are not able to integrate into the labour market, and basically the alarm that, let us say, the opportunity for people to work can distort our labour market... whether people are going to Latvia to chart... Well, sorry, people won't go to Latvia to make a lot of money. There are other countries where you can get absolutely completely different, say, income and benefits. Latvia is not an attractive land. But if people are travelling, if people are looking for asylum and if they are here, it must be understood that they have this status, let us say, asylum seeker status, regardless of whether they are working or not. They applied, they announced that they were seeking asylum, they had a status. So the question is different: are those people waiting for the question to be decided... whether they will sit down and do nothing, maybe... Of course, they can take part in some educational activities, but they will not work, they will not earn money, they will live on some of the euro that the state gives them as a benefit, or they will still be able to work. I mean, if a person doesn't sit but works, it's good. I think we should not put and create any obstacles to this. What's more. In fact, if the Authority for Citizenship and Migration can deal with the matter quickly, it means that the decision will be made and the person will either have the status and will legally be able to work or he will have to leave. The fact that he's in three months... if the matter has not been dealt with, he will have the right to do something and earn money, this will in no way affect the substance of the matter. So, despite the fact that he's going to start working... After a month or two, from the moment he starts to work, there will be a decision, and if he decides to leave, he will leave. So I think there's no reason to worry. It must be understood that, when it comes to this issue, it is more a question of such empathy, of how we understand the pain of other people. Well, one of our colleagues had already said that our people were going to other countries, and they would probably also meet different people there, and some of them are afraid, while others are trying to help. I think we should not be afraid. I call on you to vote in favour of this proposal, to support and not to worry that it could have some negative consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U171	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U172	Good afternoon, everybody! Listening to this debate, which concerns foreign nationals, their possible status, the possibilities in our country - in principle we are not just talking about... it is not just a question of empathy. It is a much broader issue that concerns the problems that should be addressed in our country when we are in a global... in a globalised world, open to the economy... and being open to the economy not only in terms of cash-flow in terms of capital but also in terms of labour. Today, I hear a lot of such flaming and, in my opinion, very incompetent claims about the fact that this problem does not have to be solved at all, let's just cut it off, and everything will be beautiful and good. It reminds me of that anecdotes about a buyer who chooses shoes for himself in the shop and says: “I would like shoes that are very comfortable from the inside, but look very beautiful from the outside.” The seller says so intelligible to him: “Yes, I understand! You want shoes that are large from the inside, but small from the outside.” This is how I see very many now looking at this immigration policy... Addressing the challenges of immigration. That is, if we look at them in the context of our demographics, I would very much like any of those who vigorfully say that we do not need to address this issue of immigration, how we could attract here the labour force we need, the quality of the labour force we need, the labour force we need (is not heard.) ... please, how will you pay people pensions in 20 years' time, provide them with social security, all the things to which they will be entitled? How will you provide the necessary labour resources for this new economy that you are building? If you take simple numbers about our demographics, about our education system, how many people there specialize in what profiles they describe, then you will very simply understand why some people who understand something from the economy, from education, usually express their concerns and concerns at these issues. We are acting very absurdly, very unalyzed. And those of you who, today, are so arrogantly saying that this is not a question that should be dealt with at all and think - come and answer this question - how will we pay pensions? All those people who listen... It's a reality, well, realistically, none of the government's... Neither the Ministry of Finance nor the Ministry of Welfare has been able to answer that question either. More about the general phrases about the sustainability of the pension system, the sustainability of the social system has not been achieved. Once you start asking for certain numbers, they don't come together. It's a serious story. In parallel, if we are talking about our economic development, then tell them where these people, these IT specialists, engineers, doctors will be. Today, by the way, we had a very great, significant event. We were in our country's family today... we have a young citizen - a doctor who has been a foreign national from another country. He has had an opportunity to integrate into our country because he had an opportunity to get an education here, an opportunity to do something here. And that's what we should think about. This is the right path to think about in good time to close the huge hub that we are building in the economy, and therefore, not only in the state budget, but also in the social budget, it will unsaved. It's already developing, the accumulation that's - we can't cover that baby with it... with those demographic trends, with the productivity we have. On the other hand, we cannot raise the productivity of our economy with our own resources, because we simply do not have the brains or the left-hands that could do so. And if this is not something that is now planned, if we are not ready to make thoughtful, responsible solutions about these eleven people (or even if they were 100 or 200 people), then, I am sorry, you are just preparing a grave place for our country. That is why I am calling, colleagues, on those who disagree... I look, Mr. Butane has applied, maybe someone else will apply. From the National Association I would very much welcome - tell your genius, wise thought. I have read today your agreement with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, as you see economic development. Well, it's a way to make Latvia a lagging country. Well, come on, tell me your great, smart thoughts! You now want to take responsibility for the economy. Come on, tell me how you will deal with this, how you will solve the issue of labour, productivity. I'll wait. Apply for a debate. Otherwise, you are simply acting in bad faith now. Once again, you play with you great topics, without taking care of the fate of either the state or the Latvian people. I call for the debate to be debated and for my statements to be rebutted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U173	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U174	Thank you. Dear colleagues, It is not a matter of refusing or refusing people to enter and live in Latvia. This is all about something else. It is about having anyone applying for refugee status or subsidiary status reduced their waiting joy from six to three months. That is the essence of the proposal, which is undoubtedly to be supported, because it means that a man, anyone - it is a living creature! -, decreases this waiting atmosphere, or to be honest, is not always a favorable atmosphere. That's the point one. Two points. For the first time, I hear arguments living in a European, democratic, legal country that, here, the argument for rejecting any draft law or proposal is based on the fact that it is, in turn, supported by people such as Dombrovskis or Papule. To be honest, it is a savage approach, which is characteristic of the Taliban, rather than of a European country, to which one of its fellow Members is also added. That's a point two. And point three. Here again, it is too little, let us say, to reduce the time of consideration. It is also time to think about the fact that people waiting for their fate to be decided would not be in a humble role, so that they could survive with the benefits that Latvia, as a democratic, legal and European state, provides them as people first and foremost. And then let us also talk about it: it will complement our labour market or it will not complement it, whether it is qualified or not. Life will show it. At the moment, I am calling for support for this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U175	Name to Member Janis Butan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U176	Hello, colleagues! If we remember and see in the past why such a draft law was created at all, then the idea was to support the citizens of our neighbouring country who are suffering from the violence of power in Belarus so that they, as refugees, can start working faster in Latvia. But it has actually been quite a long time, and we do not know what the current situation is - whether it has deteriorated or improved. We see that our immigration service is working very well with this evaluation of the status of a citizen, and its opportunities to work for them are already being given enough speed. Here, though, I hear from my colleagues something quite different, not for Belarusians anymore, because the law is for all citizens, not only for Belarusians. For example, Member Ivars Zarins is already starting to worry about his pension, because there will be no one who works and earns and pays him a pension, so it is necessary to bring as many migrant workers as possible. I think this is not the right argument, because we must be guided not by bringing as many migrant workers as possible, but by looking at how we can raise productivity in the country, because today, in our country, people's salaries, average wages, are one of the lowest. And if we import... Allowing us to work here, let us accept low-skilled jobs, we will not be able to raise these average wages at any time; we will still be among the last in Europe - with the lowest wages. However, another thing is, of course, a skilled workforce; they can drive, can work, and they have their doors open. The arrangements that are currently in place are, in my view, quite a good compromise, and I do not see the need to change that. Why should its arrangements be changed so that we promote the introduction of this less skilled workforce with a lower wage? This is not only an economic issue, but also a security issue. If, for example, there are now about 100 (more or less) of these refugees, the number is verifiable and traceable, but what are we going to do if thousands start driving here? If they drive thousands of people, it is clear that our services will not be able to test so many people, they will all have to be allowed to work and live in Latvia - even if they have deceived or misused this imperfection of the law. Consequently, I believe that it should not be necessary to give up the current procedure, that a six-month time limit is quite adequate, and if the services can check... Now they can test faster... then we also maintain that buffer for national security. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U177	The name of the Member Anita Muižniece for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U178	Hello, again! My speech will have two parts: one - that is not serious, and the other - perhaps more serious. If it is not serious, I really hope very, very much, that Members Dombrovskis and Papule have recorded the statement made by my former group colleague Mr Dolgopolov, who called them the Gentiles. In my opinion, such personal attacks do not actually exist for the Saeima, but that is, of course, the determination of the Members concerned as to how to proceed. But if you're serious, then... To be honest, I should also like to thank Mr Zarins, who, to say that, revealed the real cards - the real reason behind this initiative, that is to say, to import cheap labour into Latvia, and that would not be fully acceptable. As Mr Butan has rightly pointed out, no one is preventing the authorities responsible from working effectively, working quickly, evaluating these applications within a few weeks, within a month. With Belarus, for example... If we so much want to highlight this one country, then I think the problem would be the least, but therefore, colleagues, there is no need to amend the law. For cases where such an enhanced, in-depth examination might be necessary, it is wrong to reduce the deadline. If the aim is a cheap workforce, then, as Mr Butane rightly pointed out, it will only kill all wages down and there will be no economic breakthrough here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U179	Name to Member Janis Dombrava for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U180	Dear colleagues, A number of Members of the Saeima spoke in the debate about these economic aspects: how bad everything is... and so on - and stressed more that all persons who have applied for asylum should also be given greater social support... and so on. However, these colleagues forget to say one thing: that there are people applying for asylum seeker status who are consciously... seek asylum seeker status despite having entered the European Union as economic immigrants in violation of national legislation. The processing of this person, let's say, data for the security authorities... social workers who work with them, interpreters - all this costs money, and very much money. If it is found that a person does not qualify for refugee or subsidiary status and has to be expelled outside the Republic of Latvia and the European Union, then the cost of deportation is often measured not in hundreds but even thousands of euros. It's the money that's taken away from pensions, it's the money that's taken away from various other... other investment projects that could heat the Latvian economy. Why are you not talking about the fact that these thousands of euros are spent on illegal immigrants trying to enter Latvia, and that Latvian security authorities are working with these persons to prevent damage not only to the Latvian economy, but also to the economies of other countries? So, well, let's really not try to reinvent the wheel! Currently, the asylum-seekers' examination system works well enough in Latvia. There are no major problems for those who are truly eligible to become refugees or persons with subsidiary status. Yes, perhaps another time limit is longer and a shorter time limit would be necessary, but then there is the question: what are the hindering circumstances? There are cases where, however, there is a need to prevent situations where this economic immigrant who has applied for asylum... Well, if he starts working, for example, I don't know how a courier who is still being issued with a vehicle, then he's not prevented from travelling to Lithuania, Germany or any other European country in a few days' time. The problem is enormous: Latvia is being used as a transit country through which persons from various countries of Asia and the Middle East travel further to Western Europe, to northern Europe. I really call for responsible treatment of the security of our country, not to undermine a system that works well enough and therefore not to support these, as Mrs steel seems to say, in very short terms... short proposals to replace the word ‘six’ with the word ‘three’... without trying to change any other norms so that you can then solve many of the problems that are marked. I therefore call once again for this draft law to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U181	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U182	Hello! With regard to this draft law, I have to say that - I have studied. And the good news is that also publicly available information... For example, the Latvian State's official media portal contains success stories relating to refugees from Belarus. These dictatorial regimes, if they could express themselves, have not only received visas for entry into Latvia within a very short period of time, but also - compared to another continent, let us say so - very quickly for immigrants, for example, at an alternative status in Latvia. Such testimonies have been published in Latvian media. For example, in a particular case, it was said that so the Belarusian... In Russia... received a visa in Latvia very quickly... also notes the great acceptance of the Latvian public authorities, for which, of course, thank you. He could also... Already about three months after the submission of all the documents, they received alternative status; in no way did the existing legal text interfere with. Yes, it has been noted on several occasions that the institutions were welcome. What did we complain about? Not because there are problems with time limits and so on, but because, for example, it takes quite a long time... after having already been granted the status that we are talking about here... e.g. receiving personal identification documents; there is still some time to wait until the identity document is reached. Or there are other problems, such as good education, but it is necessary to bring the acquired education into line with some of the more specific sectors. Those with more universal education, such as education from Belarus in Europe or the United States, who are also refugees from Belarus, have, of course, much fewer problems, such as finding a job. So my conclusion is that unfortunately... Well, I have to say this: the problem is not in this particular article that is being proposed to be amended; the problem is somewhere else at all, about identity documents, equalisation of education, and so on, and that... there is no reason to try to amend an article that applies to nationals of all the countries of the world or even stateless people from any continent. This, in my opinion, is not particularly correct (it is not particularly correct!) - manipulate by saying that this applies to Belarusians. With the Belarusians... Enter Internet Searcher... There are no problems, and it is quite natural that the Latvian authorities are very welcome, want as soon as possible... so that refugees who are fleeing from the objectively dictatorial regime can become economically independent in Latvia as soon as possible, waiting for the democratic system to be strengthened in their country. So my conclusion is that this is an attempt to open the back door that could... Where could we say that we support all kinds, including pseudo... This means that all forms of immigration, and therefore, in an uncontrolled manner. And maybe not from this continent of Europe. That is not dangerous in my view - if you want to say it, it needs to be openly said, it needs to be openly spoken about, then it is also a more qualitative discussion at the end, and also fairer to all, including Members, also to the public listening to, perhaps even to the media listening to, not to say, such an emotional, unambiguous subject here and on this basis as if knowing that no one will read and go into the depths, to change one article. And then, of course, Mr. Judin begins to talk about the love of people on other continents and so on... Well, then... I'm so sorry about that. I am in favour of an open discussion. I call for amendments which, for example, do not unduly impose an administrative burden on the receipt of any identity documents, something, I do not know, educational, even elementary... medium or some... what you need... recognition of education at as dynamic a time as possible, rather than artificially creating a situation where national security authorities remain hostages, to whom it is said: whether you are unable to deal with it now, you are guilty of it yourself. At the moment, fortunately, they are dealing with refugees in our neighbouring country in particular. That is very good and it is welcome. Thank them. That's why this particular draft law... We supported the referral to the Commission for this debate. The discussion has been, everything has dropped to such very general arguments... Unfortunately, not just for Belarus, but for the human love of the world. So... At this point in time, it is obvious that this problem is not relevant for Belarus. The draft law must be rejected and I call for it to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U183	Name to Member Aigar Bikšem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U184	Thank you. Good afternoon, honourable colleagues and honourable colleagues! When I listen to the discussion, it seems to me that this situation is very misunderstood. This is about the fact that an asylum seeker arrives in Latvia and can start working in three months. It is not said at any point that the security authorities must stop investigating the situation that he has and that he must be recognised for our benefit in any case. The security authorities shall continue to work with the necessary documents until they have an opinion as to whether the country is good enough or not. Here, rather than going to work with Latvian entrepreneurs on the Latvian economy, and if any Belarusian or non-Belarusian (now some are so terrifyingly concerned that it will perhaps come from a completely different continent!) go and start working in the Latvian business baker's baker's bakery, eat bread, then there will be a huge danger to the country. I absolutely do not believe that. I think that a creative person wants to work, wants to do a useful job – for himself and society. Put him somewhere on a bench toast his nails and broom - that I think is very... Well, it's such a call to not do. It's not that terriblely important, but at the same time we're still... we are not moving a person to go to the garage and make our Microsoft, but we are simply saying: sit and wait, sit and wait. I think this is absolutely wrong news for our society and also for those people who come to save us. And more. I would just like to say something more: let us remember that we Latvians are so many continents thrown around, all over the world, again and again, and that the money that their societies spent to find out if our people who got to escape from Latvia are or are not the right people, are or are not - that it was big too! We can only say thank you that the people who fled there were accepted and that they were not left, allowed them to work, allowed them to earn money, allowed them to develop their economies and allowed them to express themselves. So I beg you very much: look at the law, not figure out the wonders that will happen there! Look at what is there and we are voting for what is there! Thank you very much, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U185	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U186	Thank you. At first, I too do not feel serious. Every day spent in the Saeima enriches Members' experience, professional skills, even a sense of humor. Unfortunately, Mrs Muižniece is not in danger. Now it's an object. We are not talking about the flows of refugees that threaten Latvia's future, nor about anything else; we are talking only about what immigration policy should be. This is indeed the subject of serious negotiations, and it is still before us, given the trends in the European Union. We are talking about the practice of using the technical file relating to immigration cases, which is to reduce the time period for verification from six to three months. It would enable people who wish to obtain this residence permit to start their own business in this area. That's the point one. Two points. Statistics show that unfortunately (or - thank God!) There was no flow of refugees... We did not even carry out once the quota that Latvia had taken up in the European Union. If I'm not mistaken, it's 371 or 372 people. As a rule, the number of refugees who live in Latvia does not exceed 100 people, and this could be heard in today's debate. And the third. If there are illegal refugees, this is not about the cost of deportation, but about ensuring that our borders are really protected from this kind of... illegal crackdowns. That is why I am calling for support for this proposal and indeed for serious, professional negotiations! - about immigration problems and the future of the labour market in Latvia. The roads can be very different - there could be deindustrialisation... is reindustrialisation, the devil knows what else... but it is a topic for discussion, not a topic for discussion today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U187	Name to Member Janis Butan for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U188	I wanted to reflect on the Member, Development/About! Member, Aigars Bikše. He wrongly treats refugees, illustration of them as nail rodents and brewers, as well as other Members, clearly saying that if they are allowed to work for these refugees, then they will be bakers of bread and builders of the Latvian economy. I find it hard to understand that in one case, refugees are nail-roasters and sembroiders, but at the next moment they are already turning into bread-breaders. In my opinion, such treatment of refugees should not be allowed... and against Members. In this way, try to sell your idea of bringing labour - it is also unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U189	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U190	I have to say what it is. I am also surprised by the fact that “Development/About!” illustrate the refugees from Belarus as broom rodents sitting on a bench. Well, it's not. People with very good education coming from Belarus, as I read in the official media of the country, in the United States. So that's... So it would not be good to create a stereotypes about what refugees are, who, in good faith, like real refugees, are fleeing the dictatorial regime and entering Latvia. These are refugees who cooperate in good faith with national security authorities and, of course, they are already... these testimonies are publicly available... within this three-month period, have already been tested and are under alternative status. This is therefore not a problem. But there is another case: if the person who provides conflicting information about himself comes, the national security authorities are misled, there can be no way, with any verifiable facts... or have destroyed their documents that... I mean, it could be... So hide his true identity or his origin... That is, of course, the problem. And it is clear that in this case the investigation is longer and this status is not obtained. But with regard to our close neighbours, to these highly educated people, who also come from... by the way, from the IT sector... For example, in Belarus, such a problem... I have not heard that there would be such a problem. This one and... No one is going to go there, Mr. Bikše, toast the broom, as you say. You have some stereotypes about refugees. That's not the case. Therefore, I call for the refugees to be not stereotyped with these good education, which can really be part of the Latvian economy, and for this draft law to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U191	The name of Member Aigars Bikšem for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U192	Thank you. Dear colleagues, honourable colleagues, I just wanted to say I already... I am not talking about what refugees are doing; I am talking about what I mean - what I would do myself if I were not allowed to work and I had to sit at home and I would not be allowed to participate normally in processes that seem to me to be important. I think it's important to work, and I think it's important to create things, create events. And I would also like those people who enter the country and are waiting for a decision to do so. So... Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U193	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time. Please! We can't hear you, Mr. Zarin.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U194	This is such a very significant discussion, in my opinion. Those who follow can once again ascertain the level of understanding with which each Member participates in this discussion. In my opinion, it has been demonstrated very clearly how other Members understand what has been debated here. For example, one of the Members believes that if concerns are expressed about the social system of Latvia, then... he considers it to be a concern for his own personal pension. Well, Mr. Butane, what can I say? If you had lived in this world as much as I did, then you would have seen whole generations -- people who are cheese, hard working... and then they experience a tragedy that they... pension... because a politician was not able to sort out the national social security system... And that's what really concerns me. I have seen these tragedies, and it is very painful to see it. That's one thing. The other thing. It seems very important to me that here people showed what their understanding of all this is: that only they are the wise and the right, and the right ones, while all those who can travel here to Latvia will be either fools or liens or simply the poor, that no one else will come to this country. And sorry, those who spoke that way were politicians of power. So you gave yourself an evaluation of your job - you showed me how you brought this country if no other meaningful person is ready to go here. In my speech, on the contrary, I talked about how I see how we can attract these really valuable people here, and as an example I mentioned our vote today on one of these people, because we adopted, gave, supported and supported the status of Latvian citizen. In this context... And what we see here is this debate shows, well, this level of culture... the extent to which the devastation of the parliament in Latvia. If we do not have the slightest empathy left here by respect for each other, we can say that here... I didn't even repeat these words, I just got this tone of... What can we expect from these colleagues? What could they have this compassion for someone else - a foreign citizen? The only thing I can recommend. My recommendation, which could really be useful for some Members of the Conservative Party, is that before you are going to speak, look at the phases of the calendar month. In my opinion, this is the only one that can help you so that your speech does not constitute an actual failure and a serious substance for the public that has voted for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U195	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U196	Thank you. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to remind you that the amendments retain the entire immigration law, as it is at present, minus one word... by amending point 23 of the fifth paragraph of Article 9... amending the word ‘six’ to ‘three’. This draft law was supported by the Commission. I call on the Saeima to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U197	Thank you. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on Immigration (No. 901/Lp13) at first reading! Please, let's vote! For - 52, against - 28, refrains - 5. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U198	The deadline for submitting proposals is April 27.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U199	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 27 April. On the agenda - Draft Law on Immigration (No. 916/Lp13), first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U200	That's... Dear colleagues, one moment! The specific draft law provides for amendments according to the Law on Administrative Territories and Populations. In the Commission, this draft law is supported, so I call on the Saeima to support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U201	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Immigration" (No. 916/Lp13) at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U202	The deadline for submitting proposals is April 27.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U203	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 27 April this year. Draft law on the first reading of the Treaty amending the Treaty establishing a European Stability Mechanism between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Portuguese Republic, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic and the Republic of Finland. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U204	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, In its session, the Foreign Affairs Commission watched draft law No. 1011/Lp13 at first reading. Now, my fellow Members, about the very draft law. In 2017, the European Commission published proposals for a further deepening of Economic and Monetary Union. In this framework, the European Commission presented a proposal for the creation of a European Monetary Fund... The objective is to integrate the European Stability Mechanism into the European Union's legal framework. At the same time, suggestions were made to improve the functioning and governance of the European Stability Mechanism and to provide the Single Resolution Fund with a common support instrument, i.e. credit lines, through the European Stability Mechanism. As is well known, the European Stability Mechanism aims to mobilise financing and provide stability support under strict conditions, in line with the chosen financial assistance instrument, for the benefit of members of the European Stability Mechanism who are experiencing or threatened with severe financial problems, in order to protect the financial stability of all the euro area and its Member States, if necessary. This draft law, which we are looking at, has been drafted in accordance with the position No. 6 "On deepening Economic and Monetary Union - Discussions in the Eurogroup" The draft law is designed to approve the draft Treaty amending the Treaty establishing, signing and directing the European Stability Mechanism to ratification by the Saeima and to conclude a multilateral agreement with the Member States of the European Stability Mechanism on amendments to the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism. These amendments aim to improve the instruments for the precautionary financial assistance of the European Stability Mechanism, to increase the role of the European Stability Mechanism in providing financial assistance and to ensure that the European Stability Mechanism will provide a common support instrument for the Single Resolution Fund. On behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U205	Thank you, Mr. Cole. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote on Draft Law No. 1011/Lp13 at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U206	Proposals for a second reading shall be submitted by 2 May of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U207	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 2 May this year. Draft Act amending the Agreement on the transfer of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund and their sharing between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Republic of Croatia, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic and the Republic of Finland’, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U208	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The Foreign Affairs Commission worked with Law No. 1012/Lp13 at first reading. Like the previous draft and supported law, this is linked... So this draft law has also been drafted in accordance with the position of Latvia, supported by the Saeima on 13 March 2020 and approved by the Cabinet on 17 March 2020 No. 6 "On deepening Economic and Monetary Union - Discussions in the Eurogroup" According to the Eurogroup statement, the finance ministers agreed on the early implementation of the Joint Support Mechanism by the beginning of 2022 at the latest. At the same time, the agreement provides that the signature of the draft agreement will take place together with the signature of the Treaty amending the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism on 27 January this year, after which the Member State will be able to begin the ratification process. The Foreign Affairs Commission has supported the first reading of the draft law. On behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U209	Please call me! We will vote on Draft Law No. 1012/Lp13 at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U210	Proposals for a second reading shall be submitted by 2 May of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U211	Thank you, Mr. Cole. So the deadline for proposals is 2 May this year. Draft law “On the First Reading of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Finland on Denunciation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the Promotion and Protection of Investments”. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Member Krista Baumane. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U212	Dear President, Dear colleagues and colleagues! We work with Law No. Lp13 The draft law is designed to approve, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on International Treaties of the Republic of Latvia, an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the denunciation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of Finland on the Promotion and Protection of Investments. The purpose of the draft law is to ratify the agreement reached through the exchange of diplomatic notes. On 1 September 2020, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs received a letter from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Finland with a proposal to conclude the agreement. Further, on 11 February 2021, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs sent a letter to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Finland whereby Latvia accepted Finland’s offer to conclude the agreement. The agreement provides for the conclusion, on the one hand, of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the promotion and protection of investments and, on the other, for the termination of the continuity clause, the so-called Sunset clause. It shall be included in the third paragraph of Article 11 of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the Promotion and Protection of Investments and shall extend the protection of investments made prior to termination for a further period of 10 years. The draft law within the Foreign Affairs Commission is supported. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U213	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft law on the first reading agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the denunciation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the Promotion and Protection of Investments! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U214	The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 days, i.e. 2 May of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U215	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 2 May this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Real Estate State Cadastre”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juris Jurash. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U216	Dear colleagues, Today we are looking at the draft law “Amendments to the Real Estate State Cadastre Law” (No. 757/Lp13), which aims to continue to apply the cadastral values currently in force for several more years. The Legal Commission examined 28 proposals. 1. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Andris Vītols, which intends to supplement the second paragraph of Section 29 of the Law, provided that supervision of the activities of certified persons is carried out and improvement of the qualification of certified persons is ensured by a certification institution authorised by the Cabinet of Ministers. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U217	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U218	2. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Andris Vītols, who intends to supplement Article 29 of the Law with a new part 2.1, stating that supervision of the task delegated to the certification authority in the field of land cadastre measurement is carried out by the State Land Service, when assessing the report submitted by the certification authority. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U219	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U220	3. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Andra Vītol. Proposes to supplement Article 57 of the Act with the fourth paragraph in the following wording: ‘The State Land Service shall obtain information on the object of the cadastre in the cases specified in this Law.’ The proposal was partly supported and incorporated in 4. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U221	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U222	4. - a proposal from the Legal Commission to supplement Article 57 of the Law with the fourth paragraph: "In the case referred to in Article 57.2 of this Law, the Land Service shall obtain information on the object of the cadastre." The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U223	. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U224	5. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Andris Vītols, who intends to supplement the law by Article 57.2, stating that the State Land Service is entitled to determine the depreciation of the building, if the depreciation of the building recorded in the Kadastra information system was established more than 10 years ago and its possible non-compliance with the current situation in the area is established. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U225	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U226	6. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Andra Vītol. It is proposed to express the second paragraph of Section 68 of the Law in a new version, providing that the basis of approved cadastral values shall be applied from 1 January of the following year for the calculation of cadastral value. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U227	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U228	7. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Andra Vītol. It is proposed to supplement Article 68 of the Law with the third paragraph by providing that the Cabinet of Ministers, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, may decide not to apply the approved cadastral value base for the following year in respect of calculation of cadastral value for the purposes of administration of real estate tax. The proposal was partly supported and included 8. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U229	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U230	8 / 8 - The proposal of the Legal Commission, which provides for the addition of Article 68 of the Law with a new third and fourth paragraph, provides that the Cabinet of Ministers may decide not to apply the approved cadastral value base for the following year, taking into account changes in the cadastral values calculated on the basis of the new cadastral values. If the Cabinet of Ministers has decided to act in accordance with Paragraph Three of the Section, the State Land Service shall, on 1 January of a given calendar year, calculate the cadastral values for the purposes of administration of real estate tax, fees, as well as other payments according to the previous cadastral value base. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U231	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U232	9 - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Andris Vītols, who urges to express the third part of Section 69 of the law in a specific wording. It was partly supported by the Commission and included in 10. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U233	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U234	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal by the Legal Commission to supplement Article 69 of the Law by a third paragraph, which states that the cadastral value base shall be drawn up according to the situation in the real estate market, as it was two and a half years before the cadastral value basis was applied for the calculation of cadastral value. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U235	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U236	11. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Andris Vītols, which intends to supplement Article 69 with the fourth paragraph, stating that the State Land Service shall publish in the Cabinet of Ministers, according to the cadastral values calculated in the process of development or approved cadastral value basis, which they may have at the time of their entry into force. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U237	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U238	12. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Andris Vītols, who intends to supplement the second paragraph of Article 73, provided that the cadastral values of the object are stored in the Cadastral information system, calculated according to the current cadastral value base registered in the system or according to the previous cadastral value basis. The proposal has been partly supported and included 13. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U239	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U240	13. - a proposal from the Legal Commission to supplement the second paragraph of Article 73 by providing that the cadastral values of the cadastral object, calculated according to the actual cadastral value base recorded in the Cadastral Information System or in accordance with the procedure laid down in the fourth paragraph of Article 68, shall be stored in the Cadastral Information System. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U241	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U242	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of ensuring that the cadastral values of all properties are reflected in the cadastral values of the thematic maps, showing the average cadastral value of each object per square metre. The proposal was partly supported and included 27. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U243	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U244	Proposal 15 is a editorial proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Andra Vītols. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U245	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U246	16. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Andris Vītols, who proposes to supplement the law by Article 99.3 in a specific version. The Commission was partly supported and incorporated in 17. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U247	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U248	17. - The proposal of the Legal Commission, which supplements the law by Article 99.3 in the following wording: "If, in the case referred to in Article 57.2 of this Law, the State Land Service has determined the depreciation of the building and updated the data in the Cadastra information system, the State Land Service shall take a decision that the owner or the legal holder of the building shall, within three months, reimburse the costs of preparing and sending the notice, establishing the depreciation of the building, updating the cadastre data and preparing and sending the decision. The implementation of the decision shall take place in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Administrative Procedure Law.” Supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U249	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U250	18. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Andris Vītols, who intends to make point 33 of the transitional provisions of the law in a specific version. The Commission was partly supported and included 19. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U251	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U252	19. - the proposal of the Legal Commission, which provides for the rewording of point 33 of the transitional provisions of the law. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U253	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U254	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Andris Vītols, to replace the figures in point 38 of the The proposal was partly supported and incorporated in 21. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U255	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U256	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Legal Commission providing for the figures and the words "2020 and 2021" in point 38 of the transitional provisions shall be replaced by the words "2020, 2021, 2022, 2023 and 2024" and the figures in brackets "2020-2023". The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U257	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U258	22. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Andris Vītols, who intends to replace the figures and the word “2018-2021” in point 42 of the transitional provisions with “2018-2024”. The proposal was partly supported and included 23. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U259	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U260	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Legal Commission to replace the figure " 2021" in point 41 of the transitional provisions with the figure "2024". The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U261	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U262	24. - The proposal of Member Ilze Indicisones, which intends to supplement the transitional provisions of the law with a new point, stipulates that the Cabinet of Ministers must submit amendments to the Saeima by 01.09.202021 ensuring that the cadastral values of similar immovable property correspond proportionately to the prices of comparable real estate market transactions and offers in the relevant real estate market segment, without exceeding the average price level over a given period of time. Projected cadastral values should be made public for public consultation. The proposal was partly supported and included 27. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U263	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U264	25. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. This is similar to the proposal by Member Ilze Indicicene - proposal 24. The Commission was partly supported and included 27. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U265	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U266	26. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Andris Vītols, who intends to supplement the transitional events of the law with paragraph 42, setting the date of entry into force of individual articles of the law - 1 February 2021. The proposal was partly supported and included 27. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U267	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U268	27. - The proposal of the Legal Commission, which intends to supplement the transitional provisions of the Law by paragraphs 42, 43, 44, 45 and 46, provides that Article 57(4), Article 572 and Article 99.3 of the Law shall enter into force on 1 February 2022; by stating that the rights set out in the third and fourth paragraphs of Article 68 of the Law shall enter into force at the moment of approval of the cadastral value basis 2025.-2028; by defining the tasks for the Cabinet of Ministers: to develop solutions for the development of real estate tax by 1 November 2021, until 31 January 2024 – the draft law related to cadastral value basis changes, which will be used for calculations in 2025, and by 1 December 2021 to draft other related regulatory acts in the field of cadastrical valuation. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U269	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U270	28. - the proposal of Minister of Finance Janis Reira, which intends to supplement the transitional provisions in the proposed wording of points 42, 43 and 44. The Commission held extensive discussions on point 43 of the transitional provisions, because the opinion of the Ministry of Finance was contrary to the opinion of the Ministry of Justice. The views of the various experts were heard by the Commission and the proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U271	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U272	I invite Members to support the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Cadastral of Real Estate” (No. 757/Lp13) at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U273	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Real Estate State Cadastre” at second reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U274	The deadline for submitting proposals is one week, i.e. 29 April of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U275	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 29 April this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Patent Law”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Ritvars Jansons. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U276	Hello! According to Rule 95 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, proposals for the draft law "Amendments to the Patent Law" (No. The second reading was not submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission. At its meeting on 14 April, the Commission supported the progress of the Parliament’s second reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Patent Law. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U277	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Patent Law” at second reading! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U278	The deadline for tabling proposals for third reading is 27 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U279	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 27 April this year. Draft law on plastic products, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Atis Lejiņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U280	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Colleagues! See Draft Law on Plastic Products (No. 1024/Lp13). The aim of the draft law is to prevent and reduce the environmental impact of plastic products and their fishing gear, in particular on the aquatic environment, human and animal health. The adoption of this law will take over the Directive on reducing the environmental impact of plastic products. These effects are catastrophic, we know that. We already drink water with plastics, which we do not see, but it is there. One third of the oceans are already dead and, as we know, the oceans are the most absorbable of CO2. The draft law provides for a ban on the sale and placing on the market of certain disposable plastic products. For example, plastic products such as cotton stalks, tableware, plates, straws, beverage bags, cylinder-mounted and stuffed sticks will not be allowed to be sold on the market. Measures to reduce plastic consumption. Requirements concerning the design, marking and volume of recycled plastic. Requirements to ensure the separate collection of packages of beverages, information obligations for buyers. The manufacturer is also required to offer non-plastic products as an alternative to consumers. The draft law also provides for administrative responsibility for placing a prohibited plastic product on the market, not offering alternatives and not informing consumers. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy supported draft laws for first reading. Since the law has to enter into force on 3 July and entrepreneurs have to know the rules of the game in good time, the Commission is asking for the draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U281	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on plastic products! Please, let's vote! For - 75, for - 2, for - 2, for - 2. The draft law has been declared urgent. Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dace Rukšāne-Šchipčinska. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U282	Hello, colleagues! I invite you to support the draft law on plastic products! Already at the beginning of July, the ban on disposable plastics will come into force throughout the European Union and therefore also in Latvia, and we must be able to arrange and prepare our national legislation accordingly. I would remind you that plastics have a great impact on all of us. Innumerable Species... the existence of animals is only at risk because they swallow some pieces of plastic waste. Microplastics, on the other hand, can be found even in human blood and the placenta of unborn children. For example, it frightens me and causes me horror. When plastic was invented, it seemed a huge step forward in technological development, but no one at the time predicted the consequences of it - the enormous uncontrolled pollution. Today, no one knows exactly how this plastic pollution will affect and affect our health and reproductive capacity. Maybe we're going to be literally using plastics. It is as likely that we will be able to do so if we act in good time. By collecting, sorting and recycling plastics, we have already taken a step towards a cleaner and healthier life, but with that, unfortunately, there is much, much too little. This bill... This law will allow us to move towards reducing the impact of plastics on the environment and human health in the long term. We have held a discussion within the Environment and Climate Commission of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy on the introduction of the ban, and it has been a long time since to say that serious preparations have been taking place at both sectoral and official level. I am very pleased that all the parties involved understand the seriousness of the situation and that there is too much discussion about the need for such a step. The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development has done a great deal of work, explaining how to make the introduction of a ban on disposable plastics gradual in order not to cause financial losses. Now, as legislators, we have to put together the latest nuances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U283	Name to Member Krista Bauman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U284	Dear President, Dear colleagues and colleagues! I remember the admiration with which we took the first colourfully printed plastic bags (which were so fine - 60 tombs, if not mistaken) and the flammable relief we gave away from the paw nets and baskets with which our grandparents went to the market and in the shop. Since then, plastic use and the pollution caused by it have increased in a foolish way. This is linked to the values of society, both hygiene and growing wealth. The synthetic packaging of plastic and other forms of packaging comes into the environment and literally shaves the eyes of the fish, kills birds and animals, and the surrounding landscape. By dividing into microparticles, the packaging also reaches us in the abdomen and has a bad effect on health. Large cultural events and summer festivals usually end with a huge waste mountain. If we do not want to drown in our own manure, we must stop making disposable items from eternal material, as is the case with the Plastic Products Act. I would like to highlight a few things in particular. First. Although the draft law has been drafted in accordance with the European Union directive, it is not necessary for Europe or for a thief who will control us from Brussels, it is necessary for us, the Latvian society, and our beautiful land, with which we are proud and with which we love. This is necessary for our children so that we and our children can live in a clean environment. Secondly. The drafting of the law and convincing progress are another good sign that, finally, environmental protection is taken seriously in the Saeima and in the government, that in the political world in the broadest spectrum, there is finally a political will to make decisive decisions, not to infinitly embarrass, to delay and delay, as has been done for 20 years with a deposit system, for example. I am proud that I am part of this political will and can fulfil the promises made to the voters. And thirdly. The draft law has been drawn up in close cooperation with the economic operators whose business activities will be affected by it. I am pleased with the understanding and responsiveness of entrepreneurs and the constructive proposals in the course of the discussions. It is a special joy for all companies that, without waiting for any directive or new law on their own initiative, have already abandoned various... from different plastic packagings and offers other solutions - sustainable alternatives. Joy about cooks and catering companies that make pictures of “No — for plastics!” in their social networking profiles. . It is clear that these changes will require adaptation. Environmentally friendly packaging is sometimes more expensive, but a solution can also be found to this issue. Some restrictions should be introduced gradually, and entrepreneurs are already offering their customers incentives not only to shop with their own fabric bags, but also to come with their own dishes, jars, thermal cups. For those customers who do so, a discount is given, and the result is that everyone benefits – both the buyer, the businessman and the environment. In the Agenskalns market, for example, two years ago, neighbourhood activists, in cooperation with market operators, introduced a free packaging cupboard where they can both place and pick up excess boxes and jars. I'm taking my thermocup to the Saeima, too. Colleagues! The era of plastic bags, which seemed to be even fragrant in the 1980 ’ s, is now over. Now we are proud to go on our daily lives and shop with big baskets, well-printed tarbs and stylish water bottles filled from the tap. The broad support for this law, on the part of businessmen, NGOs and society, and also in the broad political spectrum, means that society has changed. People want to live green and care for the common good - a big picture - not just their own personal, is a very positive sign of public judgement. I call for these changes to be supported by voting in favour of the first reading bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U285	Mrs Stepanenko, will you have enough five minutes in the debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U286	I'll try.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U287	Thank you. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U288	Thank you. I see that today is a very solemn day for someone, and this solemn excitement is so great that it frightens a little. What I would like to say about this draft law and what has been heard in general. I understand that there are colleagues in the Saeima who, as Mrs Baumane has just said, are capable of acknowledging their mistakes, for example, about the enthusiasm of the past about plastics. I very much hope that Mrs Baumane is equally aware of her mistakes, such as the admiration of facial masks containing biocides, which her colleague, Mr Pabrika, has bought as part of public procurement, namely that the biocidal products have not been fully studied, and that we find them in both the stomach and all the sensual organs, and that they can harm the body. It is likely that we will come to this conclusion shortly. It seems just as strange that Mrs. Baumane is so excited about the restaurant campaign “No — for plastics! Yes, terraces!” and do not understand to the end that this campaign is aimed not at supporting Mrs Baumane's enthusiasm for the rates, but at finally winning her right to serve customers outside the terraces. And this desire, which is so widely expressed by all the restaurants, is not supported by Mrs Baumane's colleague, Mr Pavļuta, contrary to what the Saeima had decided on, contrary to the fact that the Members had drafted and submitted proposals (and the majority of the Saeima had supported these proposals) to allow the restaurants to eat their customers on the terraces. That's why I really... This excitement, a little fun played, and this duality makes me say that I think something else could be hiding here as well. Perhaps there is already a producer who will produce cigarette kids for lunch and who is certainly already known to Mrs Baumane. I call for this draft law not to be supported until we have allowed even elementary - restaurants to feed their customers under normal conditions. I call for this draft law not to be supported at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U289	Would you like two minutes, ma'am?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U290	I think it's enough.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U291	Name of Member Anita Muižniece. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U292	Thank you. This is once again the rare time that I have Mrs Stepanenko... she almost pulled me out of my mouth. I will, of course, support this draft law, I will call on others as well, but I would also like to point out this exaggeration and embarrassment. It's just that I'm upset about this... directly to the ‘Development/Par!’ fractions Members are terriblely concerned that plastics are harmful to human health, but when we are talking, for example, about gambling, which is not only harmful to the health of the gamblers themselves, but also to the health of their fellow human beings and society as a whole, then you, dear ones, are not so active. I hope to expect that, just like we will take this step in plastic... in the direction of limitation... that colleagues from Development/About will also be as active that they will be exposed to the mental health hazards of gambling and that we will be able to open the terraces. Mrs Stepanenko rightly pointed out that. However, I call on you to support this draft law and wish you the courage of "Development/About!" to the members below. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U293	The debate will continue after the break. Registration of the presence of Members has taken place. Interruption until 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U294	Dear Members, Honourable Members! We shall continue to discuss the agenda of the first extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 22 April. Before the break on agenda item 52 - the draft law on plastic articles, first reading - the debate was suspended. Member Edgar Tavars had applied. Mr Tatar, if you want to debate, please apply. Yes, so Mr. Tatar has applied. Name in the debate for Member Edgars Tavars. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U295	Dear President, Dear colleagues, If we are talking about the specific draft law on "The Plastic Products Act", about these restrictions, especially on plastic products for single use in the food sector (plastic glasses, plastic plates, disposable tools, plastic straws), I think logically... of course, this is a small step, but in the right direction. Certainly the draft law is to be supported in general, and with some regret it must be admitted: if this European Union directive were not, then it is unlikely that we have been accelerated here today... look at this at this speed. It is equally positive that the industry as a whole is ready for these changes, given that the progress of this directive in the European Union has been taking place for some time and the readiness of Latvian producers to adapt to these new rules is also, in other words, that we did not put a burden on the economy during the pandemic, but we have a positive impact on the environment. We have talked in many different formats in the European Union, the country about the impact of micro-plastics on people, on aquaculture, on the huge amount of micro-plastics entering the Baltic Sea through rivers, lakes... in nature. This is a small promise in the right direction. Indeed, I would call, colleagues, for the draft law to be approved now, without a particularly long debate, so that we adopt the draft law and, at the same time, begin to think about other groups containing plastics; about packaging that goes into forests... various dishes that are designed to take, snacks, so-called snakes, drinks... Perhaps in perspective part of the packaging of drinks could be in deposit, but not everything will be in deposit. A large part will also come to nature - in the forest, in the roads, in the ditches. Consequently, I call on Members to reflect and consider whether the country should no longer support bulk trade, local - especially local - in particular! - Manufacturers, local traders, so-called Zero Waste stores, that we come with our packaging to the store... whether they are sweets... and we put them in our reusable container for pick-up. Thus, we really, colleagues, would also reduce much more the amount of tetrapackages on candy paper, different biscuits, chocolate baton plastics or chemical containing chemical substances, so that, overall, we can move quickly away from the amount of waste. If we remember our childhood, packaging was ever far less than it is today. We went with a mesh bag to the store, delivered our five glass bottles of milk and got in three place, we delivered our lemonade bottle, we got in a full place, we weighed the butter as much as we need and wrapped in the butter paper... and so on. Waste was incomparable - incomparable! - less. That is really what we, colleagues, have to do... We understand this global impact of business, the global movement of goods, that they need to be packed, as will packaging for some time to come to the European Union and so on. They can't often save this product without this double, triple packaging, but we have to find... We can do this as a country - to come against small traders selling bulk products. We can come against them either by reducing value added tax to zero or by finding another incentive that their products are competitive with these global producers, the big chains. We would get incomparably more, small, medium-sized businessman would get incomparably more. The environment, the climate, and the total carbon footprint would also be reduced at the expense of global transport. Colleagues, this is really a small promise in the right direction. I call, colleagues, on us to support this particular draft law and to think how intelligently we can be on this issue... reducing the total volume of packaging so that not only the products of this group will soon be withdrawn from the common market, but to create the conditions, the incentive for many other plastic packaging to be removed out of the common circulation, so that our forests are clean, so that the rivers are clean, so that the roads are clean, so that the total amount of waste that we produce is reduced every year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U296	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U297	Good afternoon, everybody again! There is one worrying thing about this draft law, to which I would like to draw the attention of colleagues. It does not relate so much in substance to the draft law itself, to its presentation, but to the way in which this draft law was channelled through and in what way we are being proposed to approve it. Personally, I also argued that we should be as careful and reasonable as possible in our attitude towards the environment. And I essentially support this draft law, but what I thought was worrying and unacceptable - the way in which this draft law is moving forward, that is, we are talking about serious changes, we are talking about a really serious issue, that is, this environmental issue, which, in principle, would be right to look at complexes, systemically, but instead, we are not just looking at it... does not have this systemic, complex view, for us about this one narrow, small aspect of the... proposes that this aspect be decided and adopted as a matter of urgency, without at all making it possible to ascertain how well this solution is considered. The first to confuse me was the way in which this draft law was presented at the parliamentary committee. As little children who don't understand anything, as fools told us about things that don't even refer to this bill, namely, how many oceans have been wasted... and all these global things, although speaking in this bill... If someone had come to know it, it had nothing to do with it. This is about our internal market, which will have no impact on this pollution in the ocean with which we are offered to fight. Instead of talking about other important things, say, explain, invite all interested parties... because here of all those who will really be affected (we are talking about the economy), there was only a beverage industry - a beverage industry that... and merchants with big-- their problem has already been solved with a deposit system, and as with all the others - we did not hear it, we did not have the opportunity to find out at all, but it did not prevent us from taking the decision that we will now urgently move forward with this draft law. As I see it, given that this measure will make their business more expensive for many, will make it possible to look for new solutions (which is not bad - to look for new solutions), then it would have been important for us to understand whether this solution, which is being proposed, is really optimal, where there are possible risks that could possibly be improved. Nothing like that was done. What is more, they tell us: as a matter of urgency, it will now have to be adopted... simply because officials have been embarrassing for a long time and have not implemented these directives. In my opinion, this is a very bad and wrong legislative practice that we are introducing into the Saeima, because it is no less or less regular in our committee: there is in almost every meeting a draft law that is suddenly proposed to Members for adoption as a matter of urgency, because, you see, the officials have once again fallen asleep, they have been unable to prepare something. As a general rule, if the commission adopts it as a matter of urgency, then, of course, all the rest of the Saeima goes automatically - trusting the committee, accepts this bill, and so goes. Unfortunately, this is how we can create serious gems. I hope that this draft law will not be so, although, if it were not a dart, there would not have been a problem for the responsible officials who are driving this whole thing, giving a common view of it, because now we are talking about plastic stalks, straws, plates, but it is a very small, tiny part of this whole story. If we now make a separate solution for every small part of this, as we did with a deposit system, which we could have created as a broad, systemic solution for a much wider range of waste, but we just made it... What happened was something that was also warned in the debate when we debated the deposit system at the time, that it would be an old, narrow solution that would solve the interests of a narrow business group. It has also happened now, as we can see, instead of being systemically thought-out and creating a much wider system with much more opportunities. Now I have this feeling: as I go, we will make another narrow solution to something narrow and, in the end, so rushing to meet some of the requirements of the directive without a common systemic sense, we will have a bunch of such narrow solutions, which will cost us very much, as we have done with the OIC. Then they too began to take certain, some narrow niches. From the beginning, it seemed that there were already serious problems at the end. And that's what really makes me worried, my colleagues, in all this story. I would call on my colleagues from the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy that, however, we are making a broader debate on this - not only in the context of this draft law, but taking into account all the challenges that already... We know... which Europe will ask for in relation to the movement of waste in relation to the environment - that we are starting to build a system-based, thought-out solution here, not a reactionary rush and perhaps a laxly trying to correlate some holes. For my part, this is all about this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U298	Thank you. The debate is closed. Mr. Legen, on behalf of the Commission, do you want to add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U299	Yeah, sure. I ask you to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U300	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on plastic products! Please vote mode! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading and for the second reading at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U301	Yeah, they're happy. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 13 May and the session of the Saeima would be 27 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U302	Thank you. In the absence of any other proposal, the deadline for the second reading shall be 13 May of this year and the deadline for the meeting of the Saeima shall be 27 May of this year. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Postal Law, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Gatis Zamurs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U303	Hello, head of the Saeima sitting! Colleagues! In the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy we have examined the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law” (No. 1013/Lp13) at first reading. The draft law was prepared on the basis of the order of 17 July 2020 of the Cabinet of Ministers, which approved the conceptual report on the possibilities of providing subscriptions to press publications and improvement of print media support. The conceptual report states that the subscribing press supplies are included in the universal postal basket with effect from 1 January 2022. Two changes to the draft law make two changes. The description of the subscribing press delivery services is specified. This is necessary in order to set quality requirements for this service in the tender documentation for the universal postal service provider. And special conditions are laid down for action by the Commission for the regulation of public services in the event that the sole participant in the tender is the former universal postal service provider in order to reduce the administrative burden of the tender. In order to be able to organise the competition for the universal postal service and to implement it in due time - before 1 January 2022 - on behalf of the Commission, please establish the draft law as urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U304	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U305	On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U306	Thank you. So Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law”! Please vote mode! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals and a time for the second reading of the draft law at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U307	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 26 April, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 29 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U308	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is set at 26 April of this year and the deadline for consideration by the Saeima at its meeting - 29 April this year. The next item is the draft law on municipalities, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission – Member Inga Goldberga. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U309	Dear President, colleagues. The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has conceptually supported and directs viewing at the Saeima at the first reading of the draft law on municipalities submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and drafted by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development (No. 976/Lp13). The draft law “has been designed to ensure contemporary governance following the administrative territorial reform of municipalities by promoting democratisation, by making a clearer distinction between the decision-making power and executive power, by establishing a clear division of competences and functions”, according to the explanatory memorandum to the draft law and by providing for the entry into force of the law on 1 January 2022. The draft law establishes “general rules and economic framework of activities of the municipality, competence of the municipality, institutional system of administration, the powers of the council and the institutions established by it, the chairman of the council and the executive director of the council, provides for public involvement in the activities of the municipality and cooperation between municipalities, as well as regulates the relations of the municipality with state institutions”. In general, the proposed draft law does not provide for the creation of a radically different system of activities of municipalities, it aims to improve the current regulation by clarifying norms and introducing innovations in certain cases. The main changes will concern the following areas: First. The autonomous functions of municipalities are clarified and supplemented. For example, municipalities will have to participate in ensuring public order and security, including by providing that by 1 January 2024, municipalities have to set up and finance municipal police forces and ensure access to prosecution services. Local authorities will also have to provide measures for civil protection and disaster management, fire safety and fire-fighting, including support for the organisation and operation of voluntary fire-fighting organisations. To date, a voluntary initiative - working with young people - will in future be an autonomous function of the municipalities. Secondly. A clearer organisation of the work of the municipality is defined, specifying issues of the work organisation of the council and committees, especially those concerning organisation of meetings and competence of officials. Thirdly. It is foreseen that the Municipal Executive Board is appointed for a period of five years by organising the selection of candidates for the post in an open competition. It is also foreseen that it will not be possible to combine a Member's post with a leading position in a municipal institution or a capital company. This norm will enter into force only in 2025 and will not apply to the elected members of these municipal elections. It is also established that the selection of candidates for posts in the municipal administration, including the institutions established, is carried out in an open competition, except for cases where the person has agreed to the transfer. Fourth. The draft law requires the executive director of the municipality to set up an internal control system for the institution. Changes are also foreseen in the control of binding regulations of the municipality from the Ministry and the obligation to publish the draft binding regulations and the statement of its explanation on the official website of the municipality for the purpose of ascertaining public opinion. Five. The draft law provides for the organisation in municipalities of councils of the population, which would be elected at general meetings of the population and maintain dialogue between the population and the thought. There is also an opportunity for residents of the municipality to submit a collective application to the council. The involvement of citizens is intended to be promoted, including through the creation of a participatory budget. In the course of the Commission's meeting, not only the legislative leaders, but also the cooperation partners who pointed out, among other things, the problems they see in the draft law submitted. The Members of the Commission, aware of the need to continue the discussion on the identified issues, supported the draft legislation at first reading by a majority in the course of the examination of the draft law. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law on municipalities at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U310	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U311	The President of the sitting. Colleagues! It's about this bill. Here I would like to touch on a number of important topics, in my view, which relate precisely to the relative changes in the form of government. But first of all, I would like to say thank you very much to Mrs Goldberg: she said very precisely what it was like in this committee and what the draft law was proposing. However, of these good things, I can only highlight those issues that are about organising the municipal session and precisely these issues of order, which, by their very nature, should have been put in order. Until now, they have not been fully agreed, and here these improvements are in place. However, I would like to draw attention to the annotation of the draft law and to things that do not appear there. And what does not appear there, first of all, does not appear to be the cost of this new bill. For example, what was mentioned about the function of municipalities, a new function - about the creation of the municipal police. If this is a new function, then according to the European Charter of Local Authorities must also be covered... there must also be a follow-up to the funding. Unfortunately, we create a function, but we don't see... and there is no statement in any form whatsoever that this function will have to be financed in any way and that the municipalities need to provide for some funds. The fact that this function is currently being performed and that in most municipalities such police already exist does not necessarily mean that everyone is doing so. There are large cities where this is not done, and so far it has been an autonomous, free choice for the municipality to do it or not. With regard to these autonomous functions, where analysis has allegedly been carried out (and the Saeima has also assigned such a task - to carry out an analysis of this draft law), it is not possible to get acquainted with this analysis anywhere. Instead, we see a very good initiative, which has been registered, to take care of young people. Very interesting, and it will be very interesting also how the municipality will interpret this function. I completely agree that the future reading of the bill will also show such functions as caring for seniors, taking care of other groups of people who may not have been fully listened to. So, in my opinion, the record after the real... It is not right, because different interpretations begin, and let us remember that one of the basic functions of the municipality is education. It is one of the main functions of the municipality and is undoubtedly linked to youth work. If we look at the innovations that are in the draft law, I would first of all like to touch on the restrictions on the pooling of posts, which, in my opinion, is very unthinkable. Already now, if we look at the municipal elections, which will be right now, we see how much the parties themselves, the political parties in power, have great challenges in general to complete the full electoral lists to start in the municipalities. It is precisely for power parties that this is, as it turns out, the greatest challenge, and, of course, in these circumstances, I understand the desire to create conditions so that if a school director or respected doctor chooses not to benefit their list but to go to the list of competitors, then in some way to create these restrictions. But here I would like to draw attention to the fact that decision-making in such cases is quite well regulated in existing laws - in what way, for example, the head of the hospital or the head of the school is involved in such situations. I draw attention to the fact that there are also opinions of the Latvian Medical Association and Latvian Education and Science Workers' Union that they are imperative against such innovations in the law, i.e., every local government citizen should be allowed to participate in elections, regardless of what his job is. The approach that is now being proposed in the draft law is, in my opinion, very wrong. Now, of course, from the innovations, this participation budget. I think it's also... we're gonna have to talk about it in the commission, because one is that it sounds good, the other is that... on which it is the least spoken that there are already a number of instruments such as the participation budget, which are in different forms, but which are happening. And here, too, in much larger volumes than is offered in this bill. In my opinion, it would be very bad if I and this... At the moment, the text proposed by the draft law would make life more difficult, bureaucratic for those places where such instruments are already working successfully, and we now have such places. I would like to say that this is not a complete news. This innovativeness still needs to be worked on, as it is now very, very simply recorded in the bill, which can make life more difficult for other municipalities, where it already works. It is also important to mention these lower-level elected municipalities. This draft law offers a very specific structure that will deal with, so to speak, these... the board of the population... some mystical formation that, in fact, colleagues, is the consequence of an administrative territorial reform and a very, very gross offer. This offer is a crople with the fact that it admits in a way... Policy-makers, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and the existing coalition recognise the fact that these large areas, which have now been created by the assembly of several municipalities, are too large, because its management in such areas cannot succeed, so there is a need for some other way closer to the population... hand over power. These types were offered... The President of Latvia, insisted on such ways, the National Association insisted that there should be zero-level municipalities, and even the Prime Minister mentioned, after meeting with the President of Latvia, that it... It is now the common understanding when zero-level municipalities are elected... that they should be in that law, but at the moment we see that they are not here. I will also remind you that the President of Latvia also mentioned this aspect very clearly and clearly in his address to the Saeima (it was the last time it happened in the presence) precisely about the zero level municipalities. What happened to us? We've got a chance in the commission to hear from experts... from the Latvian Union of Municipalities, which referred to something like this in Russia with regard to the goup, something... Well, some kind of formations are being made, where one of the elders of the parish is appointed. But what is now being proposed in this bill... I've managed to find... Indeed, there are countries in Africa where municipalities are managed in this way, where citizens have the opportunity to choose their own representatives, to whom a certain number of functions are entrusted or at all... In this case, even there is no scope for functions; here simply citizens are allowed to choose the governing body of their citizens, which will then come together. What they will decide about, God only knows. The elected council will be the one that will decide whether its board is... whether or not approved. I think that is completely wrong and that cannot be the case. I would like to remind you that there was a proposal for a vote on the Law on Administrative Areas and Populations - this is what is called 'administrative territorial reform'. There was a specific proposal, which was agreed by the Commission and subsequently by the Saeima. Personally, I climbed into the parliamentary troop and explained to my colleagues. There was a clear record - they were elected municipalities. And elected zero-level municipalities cannot be those for which there is no delegated function, for which very specific tasks have not been delegated. In this case, this is... it is precisely this section - it is a very great fiction that does not conform to any democratic principles that are simply prepared, in my opinion, to try to in some way to blind the eyes of both the President of Latvia (I very much hope that he follows and understands that he is now openly deceived both by the government and by the Saeima by offering such a solution to the zero-level municipalities) and, in a sense, by the National Union, whose original idea... Well, I will allow you to say that this is not at all what Jānis Dombrava and other members of the coalition spoke about at least once in the Commission. So, colleagues, there will still be a very interesting job here, in my opinion, for the second reading. In this way, to support something like that - that is the very direction of the Soviet Union in which we go, that we have the central power to decide on local governments, and therefore the Soviet... These consequences of the old law were, say, in a way the remains of its old policy. One example is the possibility for the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development to dismiss the President of the Council. Colleagues, I think that's wrong because it's... At no moment can we understand when a minister uses it politically driven, when a minister really uses it because it is. Often these questions come to the court, and they are now also in reality... the substance of the court. Now too... And the last one... The Chairman of Ikšķile Municipality Council has also confirmed that he will turn to court (or has already addressed)... but in the near future it will happen. These issues will be dealt with by the court and, in my opinion, it would also be right if the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development had the opportunity to challenge this article rather than simply dismiss the President of the Council. It's in its... Access to justice would be much more correct than it is at present, because it is certainly... For the other, it seems right, for the other, it is wrong, but to call it a legal solution in all cases - I think it is not really right. As Mrs Goldberg said, the draft law in general... 80 percent is exactly the same as the previous law, but the innovations that came here, in my opinion, have not been fully debated. Significant, very important questions have not been answered to the end, as well as the lack of financial impact, show that the legislator is simply about to adopt a new law without being aware of the consequences and financial obligations that this could have for the municipality. It would be appropriate to remember what the Saeima had commissioned, and the Saeima commissioned to evaluate these functions, by the decision of the Saeima to refer work to the draft law on administrative territorial reform. Unfortunately, this has not been done. I generally regard this work as very weakly prepared and, in principle, as a patchwork of ideas... which are scooped around this bill. There are, of course, also good things, but that is not enough, and it was not the only reason why we should not have drafted a new bill. It would be best to give this bill back to the government and make the government redraft it by nature, bearing in mind all the tasks assigned to it by the Saeima, but now it is precisely the chapter on zero-level municipalities that has, at least, caused me personally the greatest disappointment. This is a great deal of evading responsibility and a desire not to recognise their own mistakes, which have been made in the process of establishing an administrative draft law on territorial reform. To sum up all this, I call, colleagues, not to support this draft law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U312	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Martin Stein. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U313	Hello, Madam President, President of the Saeima, honourable colleagues and colleagues, audiences and audiences of the sitting, young people and activists of non-governmental organisations in the municipalities of Latvia! In my opinion, the draft law on municipalities is a new draft law on opportunities for young people and the non-governmental sector. Finally, the draft law “Legislative Law” includes the autonomous function of working with young people. Almost 13 years ago, the Youth Act was passed on 8 May, but there are still a number of municipalities that do not take youth work seriously, and I will not mention in which municipalities it is largely present. For many years now, youth workers have been involved in various fora, conferences, experience exchange events and training in municipalities have been saying that legislation needs to strengthen the role of youth work as a mandatory, not a recommended one. These proposals are the way forward for us to appreciate the contribution of young people and to make it clear that the youth field does not need to prove itself constantly in order to make changes in order to gain support for initiatives. The role of youth work in municipalities is important. It provides that municipalities are setting up an institutional system for youth work, determining the institution responsible, recruiting youth specialists and youth workers who are or will become young people's confidence in their places of residence. Local governments form youth centres or youth centres, create youth councils to promote youth initiatives, cooperation, exchange of experience and other activities. Local governments promote the creation of youth organisations and provide support to all organisations working with children and young people. In order to work with young people, the municipality develops a youth policy document and a plan for policy implementation. These things are nothing new, much of the municipalities do them. The vast majority of municipalities also provide funding for this function. The National Youth Policy Programme and other programmes also offer different types of funding tools. The problem is that, at the moment, this function, this task, is of a recommendive nature: will - I do, will - I do not do it. Action is taken if political leadership is supported, not if there is no support. As political power changes, support for youth policy in many municipalities is also changing, and this is not right from the point of view of sustainable development. There are inequalities in the availability of opportunities for young people in the country, and this bill reduces it. The recent study “Youth Work System and Education of Youth Workers in Latvia” again... reaffirms the problems that have already been identified years ago and highlights as an important problem the existing inequalities between approaches to youth policy implementation in municipalities and the choice not to implement this policy at all. There is also a lack of willingness from the responsible authorities to improve youth policy, as well as it was found that the... Local government data often do not correspond to the actual situation in the reports submitted by local authorities to the responsible authorities. I hope that the draft law will also give impetus to the new municipalities in which the... which now unite, is developing, for these young professionals, to pool their efforts and resources to help implement youth policies in areas where there has been no development in the youth field in recent years. The second thing that is good in this draft law is that there is a clear indication that the municipality should support non-governmental organisations operating on its territory and existing ones. So far... The old municipal law talks about the associations founded by the municipality itself and their regulation, with more emphasis on the organisations established by the municipality itself, but the new draft law very clearly states that the municipality supports civil society organisations, associations and foundations operating in its administrative territory. I appreciate that the new draft law contains not only this reference, but also other clear points: the concept of a participatory budget and the introduction of several forms of citizen involvement. I believe that by promoting and providing support for civil society organisations in the administrative territory, we strengthen communities and promote the participation of citizens in the activities of our place of residence. The 2019 study “The current environment to stimulate and support the activities of civil activities and NGOs” shows that the projects financed by municipalities to NGOs and informal groups are 82 percent of Latvian municipalities. In a number of municipalities, unfortunately, they do not happen on a regular basis. It is hoped that in the new, major and most powerful, municipalities, such project competitions will be carried out in all municipalities and will be fair tenders with appropriate funding. It is also expected that... I expect that civil participation in municipalities will be strengthened not only by the support of non-governmental organisations and the organisation of support programmes, but also by other forms of consultation with citizens, enabling citizens to provide collective initiatives on various issues and through consultative mechanisms. It has to be said that the commission still has a great deal of work ahead of it. I call on the Commission to invite key local government professionals involved in youth work, representatives of non-governmental organisations and youth organisations, the Ministry responsible to listen again to the importance of youth work and the role of all involved in the implementation of this function. Colleagues Valainis mentioned his point of view, but well, it was not based on facts and events that are already taking place in municipalities. I also call for the best form to be found for the introduction of consultative mechanisms, and I also call for consideration to be given to the letters already made by non-governmental organisations in the Commission that in some places regulation has remained too general and may be interpreted differently in local governments. This should be improved with regard to public access and public information to municipalities. I generally believe that this new draft law, entitled ‘Legislative Law’, strengthens civil society. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U314	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U315	Thank you. Firstly, I would like to thank Mrs Goldberga for a very constructive presentation of the bill on shelves. When I discuss the draft law itself, I would like to turn to its authors. The first is a positive moment. Undoubtedly, this is not a new draft law regulating the life, work and existence of the municipality. That's... It is a modification of the law, which is sufficiently conservative, which, to be honest, is a good thing in legislation. Secondly, there are also some criticisms. In principle, this draft law should have been before work on administrative territorial reform began. So, starting with this reform... The reform would have already taken place looking at new rules of the game. That includes thinking about the financial model, because here too... The debate focused on autonomous and other functions, which unfortunately require appropriate funding and appropriate sources of funding. That's one. The second moment, which also concerns the preparation of the draft law, is that it was necessary to examine the existing legislative framework more thoroughly, then perhaps it would be more precise to formulate one another's norm. Mr Valaiņa has already mentioned the creation of municipal police as a duty for municipalities. It should be remembered that there is the Law “On Police”, where one of the components regulates the creation of the local police and its functions. Perhaps that draft law should also be seen before the relevant norm appears. Perhaps it would also be useful to foresee that a financial part of the Ministry of the Interior would be directed towards the realisation of this function. That's the other thing I wanted to say. Third. I think there must also be a package here... a legislative package that would be amended as a result of the introduction of the new rules. This work, I think, is still in front of us, including the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. As far as the draft law itself is concerned, I think it needs to be supported because, once again, it is sufficiently conservative to be able to give a speech not about reforms, but about improvements. That draft law must be specified, including in the part that Mr Stein has just spoken about. It is not enough to talk about youth at all that it is good that this work is intended, because in several municipalities there are departments, departments, administrations, whose title even includes the concept of youth work. Given that it requires some specification here, including what functions will be transferred from the country, say, sport, more... with the relevant public finances, there must be a discussion here and there must be a certain degree of specificity, so that it is not just a good wish to improve something or to do something. The next question is that there are certain future norms, such as the draft law on referendums of local governments, which for a very long time walks along the parliamentary corridors and is at a high and very high level of readiness, and where unfortunately it cannot be recorded, incorporated as one of the forms of cooperation between municipalities and citizens for purely technical reasons. But all of this is workable, and all of this can be done. It was a great pleasure that we did not, however, give this draft law any urgency that is now very fashionable, nor do we talk about the fact that perhaps it is enough for 15 minutes to put forward proposals to improve this draft law. If I remember correctly, we decided for one month in the Commission, even for three months, because it is very important that we are now working on a bill that will essentially regulate the future work of the newly created municipalities. It is therefore important that the members of the Council can also be actively involved in the process of improving the draft law, as they will be consumers, performers and defendants of the law as to how the law is implemented. I therefore think that this draft law is still in front of a very large and comprehensive work, which will have to involve not only Members of the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government, but also all Members who have some idea of what they are doing and what they have to do in the future. I call for support at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U316	Mrs Goldberg, will you have enough 10 minutes to debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U317	Yeah, I'll have 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U318	Thank you. Name of Member Inga Goldberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U319	Dear President, Dear colleagues, On 5 June, municipal elections will take place. And at the moment we are looking at a new law - the Municipal Law - which will determine the work of the newly elected councils. In this respect, I would like to draw your attention to the rules laid down in the proposed draft law and I call for you to look into them. Administratively, the goal of the territorial reform is to create administrative areas capable of economic development with local governments that are able to ensure the performance of the autonomous functions established by laws in comparable quality and accessibility throughout the territory of Latvia. I think we all understand very well that, right after the elections, the municipalities will not become such, nor will this law make them that way. Only as a result of successful activities of new municipalities and, above all, as a result of sound national regional policy... they could be made. In this context, looking at the draft new law - Municipal Law - there are a number of questions that will have to be answered together before it is approved at the final reading. Today, I want to mention just three of the most visible and, in my opinion, the most controversial issues. The first is the autonomous functions. In addition to the normal autonomous functions, the draft law provides for a series of new ones. The autonomous functions are those of which the municipalities themselves are responsible for the implementation and financing. These functions will certainly require additional funds, and it has not been heard that an increase in municipal budgets is planned. Most of the questions arise in connection with the task of setting up a municipal police force for all municipalities. The creation of a fully-fledged municipal police force will require considerable resources, not only financial resources but also human resources. The establishment of such institutions without a clear separation of competences and without a model of cooperation with the State police will not result in the expected results. Two examples from personal experience. In Daugavpils, I believe there is a strong, relatively well-funded and organized municipal police. However - even under these conditions - it is just a foothold for the State Police, because the salary on the national side is much higher. In addition, there is a constant kind of suffocation about which police is responsible for carrying out their activities or other activities, and this is something that citizens do not really understand. The second example is from the border area and its parish. This lighted up in conversation with the head of the parish. the vald of Sõmeru, To the center of the parish - the road of the land. School, nursing. Business. The municipality has the police, but its task and available resources would allow it to follow the binding regulations of the municipality - and then mostly only in the centre of the municipality. The policeman of the district - one to several parishes, he has no road. If there is a critical situation in the parish and the involvement of the district inspector is necessary, the administration of the parish... comes in line, a station inspector declares transport, and then waiting is, of course, not an hour, not a day, but perhaps even weeks. With irony, the leadership of the parish says that the only police that ever comes here and then comes in is the Road Police, but of course they have a completely different task. The lack of human and financial resources on the part of public authorities is mentioned as a reason for this situation. Does this mean that the state does not exist, but that the municipalities will never come from? One law - Municipal Law - does not solve this problem. Of course, the hope remains that all these issues will be resolved by 2024. The second issue I would like to draw attention to is the separation of political and executive powers, which is one of the tasks of the draft law. Although the draft law provides for a number of innovations, there is no real belief that these could significantly change the situation. In this Saeima, an important step is taken by amending the law “On the Management of Public Person’s Shares and Capital Companies”, which provides that the Executive Director of a municipality performs the duties of the holder of shares in municipal capital companies. However, without changing political culture, there is a situation where the actual management remains on the political side, but the entire responsibility lies with the executive director. Of course, I assume that situations in different municipalities are different. The third thing I want to mention today is citizens' participation. Article 58 of the draft law provides that only citizens of the Republic of Latvia shall be entitled to submit a collective application to the municipality on matters within its competence. Since these applications are not of a decisive nature, it should be possible to submit them to any person living in the municipality who has declared to be a citizen of the municipality (in particular, taking into account that the right to participate in municipal elections is the right to vote for citizens of Latvia and other Member States of the European Union). Chapter VI of the draft law is entitled ‘Involvement of the company into the activities of the municipality’. There is no basic local government level for issues of different types of consultation to limit the concept of "social" by excluding several groups of citizens from it. It indicates a number of public organisations. I invite colleagues to study the standards of the draft law, which will regulate the work of local governments in the coming years and, of course, will affect every citizen of Latvia, and to be active during the examination of the draft law. And I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U320	Thank you. It's only a few minutes to break. We will be able to continue the debate after a break. More than that. — Pause. ... We can no longer register, because Members... part has already gone. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U321	Good evening, dear colleagues! We continue to work on the draft law “Legislative Law”. We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Inese Voika. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U322	Good evening, colleagues! Good evening, those who listen to us! 13. The Saeima has adopted several laws that will have a significant impact on what Latvia will look like. Several of them are in the field of the environment, including today's first-reading bill on plastic... a limitation. The law on municipalities is one of the management laws, which has the opportunity to significantly improve how we manage ourselves in Latvia, thus also our quality of life. About 20 years ago, when the Law “On Municipalities” had already been in force for some eight years, the current Law was in force, and a few years ago, the Information Transparency Law was in force, “The Society for Transparency – Delna” carried out a study on the openness of local budgets. ‘ Delnas’ researcher sent letters to all municipalities of Latvia asking for an opportunity to get acquainted with the budget adopted by municipalities. Some replied, most of the letters were ignored, but one municipality asked: “Who are you, and why do you know our budget? In general, we found out that you are declared in another municipality, in another region of Latvia, so we are considering applying to the competent authorities to find out what is behind your skin.” This was the case with a low level of understanding in certain municipalities about the responsibilities and responsibilities of the municipality towards its residents. Now times have changed, life has gone ahead, but not in all municipalities. Local governments in Latvia have developed “various speeds” over time. In many places municipalities are still “his own presence” champions, their leaders almost absent is an understanding of formal accountability mechanisms, for example, on the timely agenda for Council meetings, on protocols that would be available to the public, and so on. Not to mention the formats of procurement, transparency, recruitment, competitions for positions and mechanisms for public participation - true participation, in which people would be able to think with one another and offer their solutions, not only to go to municipalities to ask for money for dance folk costumes or choir trips... The new law makes it possible to change the existing system. Of course, the law alone does not change culture, but it will be a great help to those Members who will be elected in local governments this June, and in Riga - in total 42 local governments. And it will help the local community. The law, which we are discussing today, sets out the objective of ensuring democratic, legal, effective, open and public administration in the administrative territory of each municipality. And with regard to this goal... After the adoption of the law, it will be necessary to assess how municipalities carry out their duties. For comparison - Article 1 of the law adopted 27 years ago and currently in force. It is established that the law regulates general regulations of activities of local governments, economic basis, competence of local governments, rights and duties of the council and its institutions, as well as the rights and duties of the chairperson of the council, relations of local governments with the Cabinet of Ministers and ministries, as well as general rules of relations between local governments. If you keep this article in mind, it seems that the municipalities throughout Latvia have maintained their relations with other branches of power for all these years. But there is no resident in the existing law! And so many municipalities have worked - they repaired schools, not thinking about students, they built what comes into their mind, not thinking about who will use them. Now there are citizens in the law and their rights and opportunities. A true democracy starts for everyone in their place of residence. Article 2 of the Satversme, that the sovereign power of the State of Latvia belongs to the people of Latvia, must be felt by everyone on their own skin – in their place of residence. Local governments trust some 10 percentage points more than governments or the Saeima - one of the last year's surveys shows this. However, there, too, there is a place for significant improvement, since among those surveyed there were the most distrustful: 33 percent trust the local government, 34 percent distrust anyone. Part three to one third. We will not be able to live much better without this trust gap. We must enable many people to take part in the management of their district - as the electoral power, as the executive power and as responsible residents of the municipality. It must be possible to study and participate. And Riga sets an example. Today it happened - it was today! - First meeting of the Council for the Implementation of the Memorandum of Cooperation between Riga Municipality and non-governmental organisations, and Riga Mayor Mārtiņš Staķis said that cooperation with non-governmental organisations should take place not in fragments, but according to the system; there should be a system strengthened by the laws and regulations of the municipality to ensure active participation of the council, participation in the work of the Riga Council. In many places in Latvia, speaking to people, it seems that no one is interested... But to a large extent this involves the ability to influence what is happening. If there are opportunities, competition, participation and, hopefully, quality - the quality of local government work will increase. This Law also provides for the organisation of a competition for municipal posts, restrictions on how long a post can be held, and thus for an executive post. It is an opportunity for people of Latvia to see that you can come, invest the best and give the place to the next, not to grow up with the position so that you no longer want to do anything, but you can no longer leave because we no longer learn anything else. This law thus offers a new modern administration system. This Law shall provide for transparency in the work of the municipality. I hope that there will be no longer any lost and no protocol on the sittings of the Council and of the Commission. Openness is an important step towards accountability, but it is citizens who can live up to the public responsibility. This will also be helped by internal control mechanisms, which also mark a new, modern thinking, that doers themselves can strive to do better rather than do what happens, and then wait for the State Audit Office, the police or KNAB to come. The law must be discussed in the Saeima. Every 27 years, I think we can afford it. It must be accepted and put into practice. A new municipal law is one of the works committed to by the government established by Krišjānis Kariņš in its declaration. I invite you to discuss and support the Saeima at first reading today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U323	Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U324	Dear Chair of the sitting, dear colleagues, good evening! The draft law ‘Legislative Law’. We hear many beautiful, perhaps even declaratory words, phrases that the sovereign power of the state of Latvia belongs to the people of Latvia, it must also belong to local governments that we need new, modern governance. Many good things, beautiful phrases! It only creates the feeling that by voting in favour of this particular law, by supporting it, life in the regions of Latvia will become better; that by limiting the term of office of the Executive Director for two or five years, life will become better; that it will be prohibited to open customer service centres where there is... that life will remain better; that a participation budget will be mandatory for NGOs, although municipalities can already support non-governmental organisations, promote different participation in their municipality - depending on the activity, involvement and constructive actions of non-governmental organisations of the particular municipality. This can already be done now, but it seems to us that by putting it in the law, life will be better. Colleagues! There are really things that the Local Government law now, after the administrative territorial reform, must talk about, but, my fellow Members, we very well see that there are also many bunny and illogical things that are now included in this draft law. This does not necessarily mean that life will become better. The positive thing in this story is that there is really no urgency. Hopefully, we will be able to discuss this draft law with the new councils (and perhaps even with the leaders of the new councils, the chairmen) in further readings and to come to qualitative conclusions on what is really needed in the municipalities. We cannot view the outermost regions of Latvia only from the perspective of Riga. If everything that concerns us faraway is going abroad, to Brussels, to Luxembourg, to Strasbourg or to Paris, then I would recommend that many Members really go around in Latvian counties and talk to local authorities, talk to people on the ground, how they receive the services provided by the local government, how important it is for them to have this elected institution as close as possible to them. If we are talking about these zero-level or first-level municipalities - no matter how we end up calling them - and if it is important for us that a person can meet his delegated representative, really meet and talk to him, so that there is no situation where it is 70 kilometres to go to the council... and, in time, this decision-making power will just get away... and if we look at the particular draft law... Colleagues, I cannot support this specific version for this moment. I am ready to discuss and make proposals for further reading, because here I see that this involvement and understanding... in close cooperation with the municipalities... and, speaking also with local governments and also with the Latvian Municipal Union, there is no such belief that indeed this draft law will, by its very nature and its spirit, solve problems in places where life could be better for people. There are many issues here that, quite the contrary, suggest that new problems may arise; that we are increasingly red tapeting everything and that people in local governments - Members, Executive Director, lawyers - will be burdened with paperwork even more... more and more. More time will be spent on bureaucracy, and less time will be devoted to solving the real problems on the ground, by examining their localities, their parishes, their problems, and their work. Therefore, my fellow Members, I am calling for a specific draft law... as minimum... without a vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U325	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U326	Good afternoon, honourable chair of the sitting, honourable, honourable colleagues! I wouldn't want you to say that about this draft law... For the time being, because I appreciate it from my experience - my long-standing experience - in the work of municipalities since the restoration of independence. I have seen a great many laws and amendments relating to municipalities and also administrative territorial reforms. I have to say, there are some moments that make me think. And I call on you, too, to remember these moments and try, let us say, to see clearly - from such civil and parliamentary positions - how that or another moment in this law will work. The first is on the executive body, on the executive director. At the very beginning of independence, when the... when during the independence of the village council became parish councils, in those village councils... In the Soviet system, behold, the executive director was actually the main person, and Members of the village councils - it was a more pamphlet: they met there and decided, took minor decisions, but basically responsibility and power, and finances were in the hands of the executive director. Now... This law... Compared to this proposal on the Executive Director's role, I would say: do we not return? Just like that story about a golden fish: we can get to a sharp stable again... because democracy, elected local government, elected representatives of the population - members of local government... It must be the key and key... also in financial terms... and in all other areas. I would like to make one more think that the Executive Director will obviously be selected and approved in the future. I then compare it with the Saeima, because the Saeima is also an elected representative of the population at national level. Let us imagine that we will define the Prime Minister by means of a competitive procedure. Is that right? It happens that the parties, the coalition... they are in fact no longer entitled to determine who will be the Head of this executive... both in the Saeima and municipalities. How, then, will the coalition be able to work with the man actually appointed from the edge - the executive director? This is of concern. There's a thing to think about again at the bottom. Go on. Here are these restrictions - which must not be Members - to become Members... So far... There are already such restrictions - the hospital manager... and so on. Now... updated... heads of capital companies, directors of schools apparently... and so on. Again, I have a question: what is it about? We are already saying a priori that this category of people, leaders, is actually corruption... related to the risks of corruption? Why? Well, then, are the Members elected in the Saeima... Is there a restriction on them that the director of the school or the rector of the university should not be a member of the Saeima? What are we doing?Oh, no, no, no, no, Why is this happening?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, In fact, by prohibiting a certain category of person from becoming a Member... I think this is about human rights, here is work for the Constitutional Court in the future. Is that not the case? Think about it. Go on. Another very important issue for municipalities. Autonomous municipality with its responsibilities, tasks, functions... Any municipality must have a specific, stable financial base, a stable source of income, and long-term, long-term, because how else can the municipality develop its planning documents, development documents? Where will someone build, let's say, an institution, where - road infrastructure, with what salaries, where are these funds? So it's very closely linked to the income base, to the budget. And again... compared to this year's budget... It remained unresolved that question... The municipalities took away five per cent of income from personal income tax – 92 million. The most hard municipalities of Latgale are: the fifth part of the budget for Latgale municipalities - minus. The question remained unresolved. What are the challenges and solutions for young people... and so on... we're talking here if the local authorities cut the budget? Moreover, the budget of each municipality is not permanent, and every year the municipality does not know whether its budget will be reduced again or whether the government and Parliament, in general speaking about the state budget, will not again remove a source of funding. I understand that perhaps this is a very important issue for the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, as you say, the issue of prestige - to get the Municipal Law adopted. I am also in favour of these changes, but for them to be logical and reasonable. Is it not, however, and will it not be, that the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, which, by the way, claims to be one of the ministries that may not be in the future, if the number of ministries is reduced, provides itself with certain guarantees in this law for existence, i.e. monitoring, monitoring, punishment? To what extent the municipalities - thus the elected representative offices of the population... Members, a municipality can be regulated or punished by a state institution? Or cancel the President. That question also needs to be considered - to what extent and at what points, and in what cases... Is there not already enough room for VARAM to act with the impact on municipalities? I will, of course, support the draft Law on Municipalities at this reading, but we must follow along and have a logic for... should be a result. And when the local government leaders - the new ones who will now be elected - would say that, here, this local government law is okay, then I would also call on the rest of the Saeima to vote in favour of this law. Not that we... or the officials will say it's good and... in such a euphoria will say that it's going to be all right... First of all, this law is for the people themselves and for the municipalities themselves. And if they accept it, then Members, the Saeima, would have to accept this law in the final version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U327	Name to Member Igor Pimenov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U328	Good evening, honourable Members, honourable Members! In the new draft law, in the draft law “Legislative Law”, as far as I understand, a new institution or new means of contact of citizens with the municipality has appeared, i.e. the Council of the People – a consultative, collective institution whose purpose is to ensure representation of the interests of the local government's citizens in the council. And also - a collective application, which may be submitted to the municipality, on issues falling within the competence of the municipality. At the same time... I have noticed and would like to mention in a conversation with you that it is indicated here that a member of the Council may be a citizen of the European Union and that a collective application to the municipality may... be submitted by a citizen of the Republic of Latvia. Thus, Latvian non-citizens have once again remained “out of time”. In my view, it is neither fair nor far-sighted. I'd like to remind you... I would remind honourable Members very briefly what they are - Latvian non-citizens, because often we simply cannot see them in the crowd on the street or in the everyday contact, but they live next to us. Latvian non-citizens are permanent residents of the Republic of Latvia who were citizens of the Soviet Union but who have not subsequently acquired citizenship of any country. In 2020, there were 217 thousand such persons in Latvia, or 10.4 percent of the total Latvian population. Latvian non-citizens also have no electoral rights in municipal elections, unlike Estonian non-citizens. They cannot work in public service. There are also restrictions on social and economic rights, professional activity, acquisition of real estate, calculation of pension record, possibility of visa-free travel to a number of foreign countries, although these opportunities exist in most European Union countries and Iceland. However, non-citizens in Latvia have significantly more rights than stateless persons - those who do not have nationality. Non-citizens - unlike stateless people - are citizens of the Republic of Latvia. The Constitutional Court recognised that the legal relationship of non-citizens with Latvia is recognised to a certain extent and on the basis of it mutual duties and rights have arisen. I will not speak for a long time, and even this debate... is not the right time and place to launch a long discussion about naturalisation opportunities, about non-citizens as a political and Latvian human rights issue. I would simply like to conclude that municipalities play a very important role in the process of further integration of non-citizens in order to involve them in civil society activities and in the activities of the municipality. It is precisely for the sake of strengthening public cohesion that the involvement of non-citizens in civil society activities is crucial. I therefore believe that this law must take this into account. At the next, second, and perhaps third, as far as I understand it, the right of non-citizens to participate in the activities of both the Council of the Population and the submission of a collective application to the municipality must also be strengthened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U329	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U330	On behalf of the Commission, thank you to your colleagues for the debate. As I have already mentioned, a number of the issues raised during the debate were also raised at the committee's meeting, and the members of the committee expressed their willingness to continue the discussion in the course of the legislative process. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law on municipalities at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U331	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on municipalities! Please, let's vote! For - 76, for - 1, for - 7. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U332	Thank you, colleagues. The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be one month - 22 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-22-PT13-2237-U333	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 22 May this year. Dear colleagues, The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Gata Zamura, Marija Golubeva, Mārtiņš Šteina, Andrejs Klementjeva and Arvils Aseraden to declare a break on the agenda of the first remote extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 22 April until 9 a.m. So, from 18.00 today to 9 a.m. next Thursday. Please call me! We will vote in favour of an application from Mr Zamura, Mr Golubeva, Ms Stein, Mr Clementyev and Mr Asheraden regarding the interruption of the remote emergency sitting from 18.00 until 9 a.m. on April 29! Please, let's vote! On - 62, against -16, refraining from -1. The session was suspended until 9 a.m. on 29 April. Dear colleagues, I would like to introduce you to two submissions. Members Ivars Zarins, Valerijs Agešins, Vitalijs Orlovs, Ivans Ribakovs and Edgars Kucins have submitted a question to the Minister of Health Daniels Pavluts “On the benefits for Covid-19 vaccinated persons and compulsory vaccination” of the Ministry of Health. Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Lubova Švecova, Aldis Gobzems, Karina Sprūde and Kaspars Girgens have submitted a question to the Minister of Health Danielas Pavļutas “For the procurement of printing works performed”. Your questions will be referred to the Minister. The registration of Members' presence is over. Interruption of the sitting. Good evening! ( Interruption)
