ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U1	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Let's start the Saeima sitting. Let us continue to examine the agenda of the remote emergency sitting on 27 May this year, which has not been reviewed. And so on the agenda: draft law on "Amendments to the Criminal Law", second reading. The Chairman of the Legal Commission Juris Juris Jurāks has informed that the member Jānis Butāns will be the rapporteur of this draft law. Please, Mr. Butane.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U2	Hello, colleagues! Last time we stayed on proposal 3 and... where the debate also took place. So 3. - The legal commission's proposal. According to Section 48, first paragraph, point 14 of the Act, after the word ‘mother’, the words ‘for social hatred’ shall be added. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U3	Let's... Members had yet to come to the debate. Does one of the Members who had previously applied wish to debate today? The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U4	Dear colleagues, It has to be said that Latvian national legislation provides for various general and special prohibitions of discrimination and their observance is ensured by different legal means. It is clear that both of these proposals are two and three. - can be seen together. This, in my opinion, is clear even to those who want to talk but to prepare for laziness. I would like to inform you that this issue was also addressed at the meeting of the Working Party on Criminal Law of the Ministry of Justice on 25 May, in response to Andrejs Judine's proposal and also the draft law submitted by certain Members. I think that this debate on the inclusion of the new qualifying feature in the relevant articles of the Criminal Law once again shows not whether there is a need for a new regulation, but a desire for individual colleagues, Members of the Saeima, to promote themselves against the backdrop of a tragedy. I call on these colleagues not to create political capital for a disaster. Therefore, proposal 3 is the reaction of the majority of the Ministry of Justice and the Legal Commission, a vision to address this issue - to include as an aggravating factor in the context of social hatred with the wording contained in the Labour Act. For example, the ninth paragraph of Section 29 of the Labour Act prohibits differential treatment depending on the worker's race, colour, age, disability, religion, political or other belief, national or social origin, property or family status, sexual orientation or other circumstances. It is important to note that such a version, which we are discussing at the moment, is supported by both Prosecutor General Juris Stukāns and the scientific adviser of the Supreme Court Jānis Baumanis. If a crime is committed because of social hatred, it reinforces responsibility. I am ready to support any amendments that would reduce the level of crime in our country. At the same time, I believe that it would not be right to highlight only one, specific, social group and set it against other residents of Latvia. There is no place in Latvia for any crimes. All crimes must be investigated carefully, regardless of the social group that a person belongs to. Crimes must not be sorted according to the type of crime against which they are directed. I think that this text is a reasonable compromise, because proposal 2 is much more narrower, but proposal 3 incorporates a universal text. The wording of the solution proposed by the Legal Commission is comprehensive and includes all possible social groups, so proposal 3 is more acceptable than proposal 2 and does not undermine the logic of the Criminal Law. I invite you to support 3. - The Legal Commission's proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U5	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U6	Dear colleagues, Continuing this, I don't remember now how long the discussion that was about a week ago, or even two... Colleagues, 2. - Mr Judin's proposal, whatever its attitude, was at least legally clear. This proposal consists of the following combination of words: "social hatred". So, my colleagues, what is social hatred? Is this a known, known term in law? I mean, before I... I was looking... Also in English about whether it is a concept used in law, and the answer is quite unequivocally - no. Not known, cannot be used in other countries. If it is difficult to understand where and what social hatred is, even from the point of view of common reason? When do we know that social hatred has been, has it not been? So these... When certain cases are tried, then these words, this wording is either completely redundant or it will give rise to several... so to say, the headache for the people concerned - lawyers, judges, prosecutors who will try to operate with it. And then, of course, it will make proceedings more difficult, it will prolong those proceedings. Colleagues, once again, I believe that the role of the legislator is to create clear legislation for people. This legislation is incomprehensible. I therefore call for no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U7	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U8	Hello, colleagues! Perhaps some Members do not understand this, but we must admit that lawyers understand it. Two weeks ago, in answer to Mr Dombrovskis' question about what social hatred is, I already said that the Criminal Law contains Article 150, which contains this definition, and can be read comments, can read judgments, and then maybe... Indeed, if there is interest, true interest, then there will also be greater clarity. With regard to the proposal itself, I would like to stress that Article 48 does not provide for liability for any criminal offence. It is not an article that would define a criminal offence. This is a aggravating circumstance. When a person commits a crime for ideological reasons, taking into account his attitude toward religion, nationality, and skin color, responsibility is now reinforced. Social hatred means that, if there are any other criteria against which the infringement will be committed, then the case in question will also give rise to the application of... refer to Article 48. Well, for example, if someone calls for the destruction of property because it belongs to migrants because it belongs to people living in certain individual territories, then there will also be a greater responsibility. I would really like to emphasise and remind you that the proposal was examined by the sub-committee and supported by the Ministry of Justice, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police. Basically, those who work, they understand. And I think politicians should not interfere here, well, in the sense that they should not interfere with the legal problem. Then at least you have to understand what the story is. Thank you. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U9	Name to Member Juris Jušas.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U10	Hello, colleagues! For my part, too, I will try to remind you quickly of what the proposal really is about. Consequently, the proposal provides for the addition of point 14 of the first paragraph of Article 48 of the Criminal Law as an aggravating factor in the fact that the offence was committed as a result of social hatred. Such a proposal was supported by the Legal Commission, given that the content of social hatred is already included in the disposition of the first paragraph of Article 150 of the Criminal Law and any social hatred is identifiable as aggravating factor and not just a hatred of a particular social group. I would remind you that the wording of paragraph 14 of Section 48(1) of the Criminal Law in force provides that the fact that a criminal offence was committed on the grounds of racist, national, ethnic or religious motives may be recognised as an aggravating circumstance. Already now, a court can impose a more severe penalty on a racist, national, ethnic or religious hatred or motive, and I would like to emphasise that it has been committed only once between 2012 and 2018, i.e. within seven years. There is a misconception that the amendments will lead to an increase in the number of crimes being investigated in connection with hate speech and that freedom of expression is at stake. This is not the case, as the prosecution of hate is already provided for in two articles of the Criminal Law, namely Articles 78 and 150. So, colleagues, in order for a court to apply a aggravating circumstance, there must be a specific criminal offence under criminal law, there must be an established and proved fault of the individual, and only if it is established that one of the aggravating circumstances, such as alcohol, greedy desire... the court may then apply it. I stress the words 'can apply', so I am now calling, colleagues, for a sensible and legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U11	Thank you. I closed the debate. And so on behalf of the commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U12	Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission. It is only that the Commission has supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U13	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - The Legal Commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 52, for - 16, for - 5. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U14	4. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Under the sentence of the second paragraph of Article 139 of the Law, the words ‘or by forced labour’ are replaced by ‘either by probationary supervision or by public service’. The proposal was supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U15	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U16	5. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. As in proposal 4, the words "or forced labour" shall be replaced by "either by probationary supervision or by public service" in the sentence of the first and second paragraphs of Article 139.1. The proposal was supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U17	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U18	6. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. As in proposals 4 and 5, the words "whether by forced labour" are replaced by "either by probationary supervision or by public service" in Article 141(2.1). The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U19	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U20	7. - Andrey Judin's proposal. Provision shall be made for the position of the first paragraph of Article 150 of the Criminal Law to be expressed as follows: ‘As regards actions aimed at causing social hatred or distrust on grounds of sex, sexual orientation, age, disability or any other characteristic,’. The proposal has not been supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U21	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U22	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! Article 150 of the Criminal Law requires a specific identification of sexual orientation as one of the signs of hatred or social distrust. As we noted in the debate on Article 48, it is a proof that we, as a public, are seeing and aware that hatred is being directed specifically at this part of society. The current regulation of the law, providing for responsibility for actions aimed at causing hatred or distrust, clearly defines only three criteria: the person's gender, age and disability. The norm has become obsolete and does not include a number of important anti-discrimination criteria, which are mentioned in international norms of human rights protection, as well as violations of which occur in Latvian society. The proposed amendment responds to the Ombudsman’s call in this Article to abandon the sign ‘serious harm’, the detection of which has so far made it difficult to investigate criminal offences involving social hatred and mistrust. The Ombudsman points out that this would facilitate judicial proceedings and help to specify when the border between the expression of freedom of expression and hatred or mistrust is violated. The Ombudsman's Office pointed out the need to promote understanding in society where there is this border, as well as underlines that it is in the public interest to investigate any hate speech crime. Colleagues, let us specify the reference to sexual orientation in this clause of the law and facilitate legal proceedings! This will help to recognise hate speech, help to understand, through legal proceedings, to the general public where we, as a society, are pulling the border between freedom of expression and causing hatred and distrust. I call for support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U23	The name of the Member, John Isal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U24	Hello, colleagues! This proposal, from all the proposals put forward in this draft law, is one of the greatest threats to freedom of expression, not because another group is included, namely this action aimed at causing social hatred or distrust against sexual orientation, but because of the exclusion of an essential criterion, namely that this action must cause serious harm. What does that mean? That in fact any public comment will be able to appeal to the police and the police will not have to assess whether this statement, which has been described as hate speech by someone, has had or has not had any effect. Following the adoption of such a proposal, the police will have to consider politically motivated applications against political opponents only because someone seems to say something else to be hate speech, and the police will not even have the right to assess whether this hate speech actually has any effect or not, as such a criterion in this proposal is closed out. This means that, as in some Western countries with similar standards, a priest who quotes Bible texts will be able to be put in prison peacefully. I do not want Latvia to join those countries that are so barbaric, with totalitarian methods restricting freedom of expression. That is why, Members, I would call for this dangerous proposal to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U25	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U26	Yeah. This proposal from Development/About Members' side is a publicly populist attempt to bring about a narrow electoral group without, in fact, seeing a wider picture of the reality. If we accept that this proposal would be supported... There are many sexual orientations and sometimes there is a feeling that they are supplemented every day. Among these sexual orientations, the deviations are, among other things, seen... In other words, there are deviations where people are looking for a way to satisfy their sexual desires with their younger children. Often such headlines are also found in the Latvian media - that the police have investigated and discovered persons who have either reproduced and disseminated child pornography or have transferred themselves to such relations with minor children. In this situation, it happens that those people who will say in their comments that this person should receive a severe penalty, perhaps even a death penalty, that they should restore the death penalty in Latvia and impose the death penalty on such criminals... In fact, these people could now be held accountable for the fact that they are causing social hatred towards people with a particular social... orientation. Of course, we can still see such examples, and that is why we need to think very carefully. I understand the wish of the applicants, the motivation for a particular group of voters, but in the end, there is a brother who has to be rejected. Let us therefore vote 'no'! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U27	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U28	It is possible that some colleagues will be surprised, but sexual orientation as a sign for seven years has been mentioned in Article 150, not in direct words, but there is "hate against any social group", which means that it includes people because of their sexual orientation. Of course, the proposal makes it clear that this group should be highlighted in clear language so that there are no misunderstandings, but that is nothing new. In this context, you all see that it is not that the police are very burdened that they cannot cope with the applications. That's one. But when it comes to the substance of the proposal, the most important thing in this proposal is different. I mean, we... We can now see two different approaches to hate crimes. In verse 78, there is a responsibility to arouse hatred for a person because of his nationality, race, faith, and verse 78 does not require that there be any consequences. If a person preachs his ideology that people do not have the right to live, they are not perfect, they are held accountable, they are not trying to find any damage there... that there has been a serious damage, because it is understandable that the preaching of such an ideology is not acceptable. But you need to understand that other identities can be just as important. If someone preachs that there is no right to live in other people, by any other criterion, let us say they are defined... that maybe they don't have the right to property, they don't have the right, let's say, to take some action, to participate in elections, whatever, then... Essentially, if someone calls for the rights of people to be restricted because they belong to a social group, it is very dangerous. I really find it very strange that we are calling for freedom of expression in relation to this provision. If someone expresses his opinion, does not call for criminal action, does not call for harmful action, it is just an opinion. And those opinions, those examples of the previous sitting that we heard today, do not, in my opinion, qualify as criminal offences. Fear society by calling paedophilia, calling child pornography... Well, I think people who talk, they understand what they're talking about. They read proposals, they read laws, not just scare society. It's irresponsible. But when it comes to the substance of the proposal. I think we should not maintain two standards. Hate is hatred, and we must not be tolerant, we must not be tolerant of hatred. If someone instead of expressing an opinion on something, rather than sharing his attitude, he is acting... disseminates his ideology, calls, he creates a very dangerous... This can have very dangerous consequences. And the question is: to wait for these consequences to come up with or to act as a deterrent? And if we clearly state in verse 78 that we do not expect consequences when someone preachs hatred, when someone tries to influence others with his propaganda, which is very, very damaging, we act. Similarly, there should be Article 150. With regard to statistics, I would like to stress that every year we have one, two, three cases where the article is applied, and this is probably because the article is applied not by politicians who fear society here, but by professionals. The police, the public prosecutor's office understand what cases are hate and when there is a human opinion. If someone does not like other people, it is not a criminal offence. It must be understood that responsibility is for specific actions and not for their attitude. I very much ask my colleagues to interpret the proposal correctly, not to make any speculation and to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U29	Name to Member Juris Jušas.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U30	Colleagues! I would like to point out that the Legal Commission did not in fact support Mr Judine's proposal to make a social hate speech about a formal criminal offence, regardless of the consequences. The Legal Commission assessed and recognised that the current wording of Section 150 of the Criminal Law, which provides for criminal liability only on condition that the action aimed at causing hatred or distrust, depending on the person’s gender, age, disability or any other signs, has caused serious damage. So in cases where the origin of social hatred is linked to violence or to the threat of violence, criminal liability is already provided for in the third paragraph of Article 150 of the Criminal Law... irrespective of the extent of the injury caused. Similarly, the exclusion of ‘serious harm’ would result in criminalisation of the activities provided for in the first paragraph of Article 150 of the Criminal Law, which would result in any unfriendly or critical statement of a certain person on account of his social belongings being regarded as a potentially criminal offence which would not be proportionate. I call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U31	Name to Member Juris Rancan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U32	Colleagues, good afternoon! I'm listening to this discussion, and I want to smile and cry at times. First of all, what are we talking about here? Obviously, there's a desire here to criminalise, well, that's the level of kindergartening, to say that it's the hate saying that someone called someone... and thus caused this hatred. Indeed, I call on us, colleagues, to always think seriously, whatever the law we adopt, on good law-making practices, which means that we must first find the facts of the social reality that we are talking about and what we really want to change there. I would remind you that in the Commission on Criminal Law Policy, everything that could be found as possible of these crimes, which should be triggered by criminal cases, the LGBT organisation itself, in three years - about 30 comments... and then, in these comments, part of them, it was said that people referred to historical facts, for example, that throughout the Western world until 1992 the phenomenon of these sexual minorities was regarded as a mental illness, and when the World Health Organization nevertheless removed it from the list of diseases in 1992... then, in our case, it would happen that mentioning these facts of history or even teaching the facts of history in specialised medical institutions could be interpreted as saying hate against these persons, and obviously then there must be censorship, both historical censorship and medical censorship, and that is how it should be forbidden to speak, because it is drawn to it now, it looks like that. Another thing that I would like to emphasise here, however, and which I have always stressed, is that we must, however, be citizens and be able to look at a large scale, both in time and in the space that is going on. And Mr. Dombrava said very well that in fact all these people, who are very active and loud in public space and telling us that everything is a norm, everyone matters to us, we are about all families... These people don't draw a clear line, let's say, between different... So where will they stop? There is no debate on this. And we understand that they don't turn off paedophilia at any time. They're always about everything, about everything. Well, let's assume, many put the feisbuck slogan "We're for all families". Civil law, for example, prohibits marriage between close relatives, which is incestated. Obviously, these people, who are in favour of all families, are in favour of abolishing the incest, and they are in favour of multilateralism. But when you ask them, “So you stand for it?” Then they say, “No.” Why do you say “for all”? The fact that there is a very, very well-founded concern in society that this legalisation, wider recognition of the various historical cases of deviations, may continue to exist and have no limits. Everything depends on the richness of specific organisations that will be able to influence the mass media and political decision-makers. I would therefore call for such proposals to be treated very carefully. And again! Colleagues, it is now disproportionate to criminalise kindergarten problems like calling. The speech of hate... We could also insult, for example, Sandra Weinberg, who really... which even figured out conservatives and church... specific characteristics were attributed, thus creating hatred for these groups. But we understand that there are people who are doing different things in their head, including from the Soviet times, from propaganda art to various aspects, and we are not insulting. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call on you not to insult and criminalise every detail. Thank you, colleagues. I call for this proposal to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U33	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U34	Hello, colleagues! Those who have just voted in favour of the inclusion of social hatred as an aggravating circumstance in criminal law may no longer exist. You must also vote in favour of this proposal safely, because you cannot be in a bit of a position and you cannot be a little conservative. Don't lie to yourself. If we are talking about this particular proposal, Mr Judine's proposal, to remove this'significant damage', of course, and also to place the emphasis - not just on 'hate', but also on'social hatred' in this article - on the two feelings that I have. On the one hand, it's really good, it's good... I'll tell you honestly, together... very much of the public would also like to see Mr Kariņš and Mr Levite milk the streets as a result of forced work, because if we read this proposal from Mr Judine, we see that any social hatred directed against social groups... in this case, these are people who choose not to vaccinate... This topic is now very topical. So we clearly see that both Karin and Levit have said... they have expressed clear opinions... together with RSU rector Aigars Pētersons, who, by the way, is also a member of Mr. Judine's party. I really wonder that Mr. Judin is still bad for his party members. They have expressed a clear hatred for people who, due to such or other circumstances, choose not to carry out this vaccination... Thus, addressing people by denying them the opportunity and the right to turn... against people, in the face of the fact that this free test will soon end for people. All of this, according to this article, indicates that there is no serious harm to the preaching of gross social hatred. And that's what's in principle... Indeed, people would have been happy to see it. But let us be consistent. If we want to combat any folly with criminal law, we do not allow people to be fools, we simply put a clause on them right away, then we really end up in a situation where freedom of expression dies and no one has the right to show himself in the best conscience, as he wants. Consequently, each opinion has the right to exist, even for such an opinion, as I have just referred to, with regard to unvaccinated persons. And to turn to people just because we have to close someone's mouth, it will not be right, even if we don't like that, even if we'd like to stop this propaganda, as Mr. Judine said, both on social networks, on bus windows and on social... as well as in state-paid television broadcasting, everywhere. We would like to end this, but we understand that freedom of expression is very important and that our opinions, which sometimes conflict with meinstrime's views, are important, and we also do not want to be directed against us, just as we do not want to target Mr Kariņš and Mr Levite. That is why it is very simple - I will not support this proposal, and I also call on other colleagues not to support such a very, very dangerous proposal, which is indeed, as Mr Dombrava and Mr Iesalnieks have already mentioned, will at the moment untapped a great deal with the problems that will be created on an equal footing. Consequently, the removal of ‘significant injury’ from this Article cannot be supported in any case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U35	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U36	Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission. Just that the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U37	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Member Judea's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 21, for - 57, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U38	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is proposed to replace the word ‘forced’ by ‘public’ by ‘public’ in the sanction of Article 195.2.2.1. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U39	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U40	9. - Andrey Judin's proposal. It is proposed to supplement the Criminal Law with a new Article 218.1 on the presentation of a transaction that has not actually occurred in the value added tax return. The proposal has been partly supported and included in proposal 10.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U41	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U42	Colleagues! The proposal has been debated and we have created a supplement, we have clarified it. But on the substance of the proposal. I would just like to inform you that we received letters from the accountants' associations, and the accounting officers had some concerns as to whether they would start punishing the profession in question, even if they did not understand that anyone was trying to defraud VAT. They are technical staff, and perhaps they may not always be able to understand that the company's owners are doing something criminal, and I explained this issue in the sub-committee and promised that I would also repeat it from the platform. A person should not worry that he will be called criminally if he does not have the purpose of committing a criminal offence. If the accounting officer is involved in a criminal offence, if he is involved in VAT fraud, of course he will have to answer as the perpetrator or accomplice of the offence, depending on the situation, but the proposal to write in law the words "conscious action"... say, the word ‘conscious’ or enter in the law the word ‘intentional’... We have discussed this, but there is no such need, because it is clear that, if there is no intention, there will be no criminal responsibility either. Therefore, if anyone has an interest in studying, I would ask you to listen to our discussion within the Commission on Criminal Law Policy. But the proposal, which was discussed and developed in the working group of the Ministry of Justice, the prosecutor's office, is, in substance, to be supported. I ask you to follow the Commission's decision and support the Commission's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U43	Thank you. I closed the debate. So the speaker also expressed his support for the Commission's opinion and Members agreed.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U44	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal commission's proposal. It is planned to supplement the Criminal Law with a new Article 218.1 - on the presentation of transactions which have not actually occurred in the value added tax return - in a specific version. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U45	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U46	11. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is proposed to replace the words ‘either by forced labour’ by ‘either by probationary supervision or by public service’ in the sanction of Article 221.6. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U47	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U48	12. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Provision is made for the words ‘or by forced labour’ to be replaced by ‘either by probationary supervision or by public service’ in the first paragraph of Article 239.1. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U49	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U50	13. - Andrey Judin's proposal. It shall be provided that at the disposal of the first paragraph of Article 317, the first paragraph of Article 318 and the first paragraph of Article 319 of the Criminal Law, the words ‘the State authority or management procedure or the interests of a person protected by law’ shall be excluded. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U51	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U52	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It shall be provided in the transitional provisions of the Criminal Law for a series of articles to determine the date of entry into force - 1 January 2022. The proposal has been partly supported by the Legal Commission and included in proposal 15.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U53	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U54	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal commission's proposal. It is envisaged to supplement the transitional provisions of the Criminal Law with Articles 24 and 25 in a specific wording. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U55	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U56	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law amending the Criminal Law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U57	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law amending the Criminal Law! Please, let's vote! For - 76, for - 4, for - 1. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U58	The deadline for submitting proposals is five days, or 14 June of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U59	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 14 June this year. Draft law “Amendments to the law on bailiffs”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Edgars Tavars.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U60	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, We are working on the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Executors of the Court” (No. 865 Lp13). Six proposals have been received by the Legal Commission for the second reading. 1. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Developed in cooperation with the Council of Sworn Courts of Latvia. The essence of the proposal is the delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to determine the procedure as sworn bailiff, upon request of interested parties, on the basis of the invitation of the sworn notary and the oath... and, at the request of the guardian of the estate, draw up a list of the inventory of the estate. The proposal is supported by the Commission. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U61	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U62	2. - also the proposal by the Minister of Justice Mr. Janis Bordens, a editorial proposal. Also provides for delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to supplement paragraph 2.2 of Article 74 with a delegation whereby a sworn bailiff, upon request of interested parties, records facts. The Commission is supported. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U63	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U64	3. - the proposal by Member Lubova Svekov. It is envisaged to express Article 80 in a new version - provision for delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers when it comes to the fees of liability and remuneration stipulated in the acts of bailiffs and the maximum interest rate that can be received by a sworn bailiff. In the Commission, this proposal has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U65	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U66	Thank you. Colleagues, welcome to everyone! The essence of my proposal is to reduce the level of remuneration of the bailiff, to fix a ceiling. And the following reason: “I want my court!” - I guess this slogan best describes the reforms implemented by the Minister of Justice in the judicial system. I assume that your court is definitely already received for the system of remuneration of court bailiffs, thanks to which we in the country Top 100 with the highest income of persons include not only entrepreneurs, but also bailiffs. And it is the Ministry of Justice that is responsible for the establishment, maintenance and legitimacy of such a system. I do not think it is necessary to remind you of the gross cases of unfair conduct in public spaces and even fraud involving professionals in this legal profession - very recently. Why is the Minister of Justice primarily implementing the reform, which results in the creation of a special Court of Economic Cases? By the way, a large number of approved judges come from the insolvency proceedings category. Why is there no reform of the institution of bailiffs, especially with regard to its remuneration system? There is a system of remuneration for cross-subsidisation contributions - for bailiffs - that works very interestingly. What does that mean? It turns out that by carrying out enforcement activities in the interest of the State, namely the recovery of maintenance in the interest of the State and the municipality... the recovery carried out... expenditure relating to this category of cases is not covered by the State but is borne directly by the Institute of Executives from the categories of cases to be recovered. But the worst in this situation is that (according to information prepared by bailiffs themselves) the rate of cases completed with execution is highest for the category of cases where the sums to be recovered are up to 300 euros. The next category is between EUR 300 and EUR 700. This means that the least wealthy pay for both the costs of recovering their debts and the cross-subsidisation of the costs of recovering the recovery cases in which recovery is carried out in the public interest. During the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima, the Board of Judicial Executives claimed that, the higher the debt, the higher the cost of administering them. But the rate of completed cases... Amounts... In the categories of cases from 10 thousand to 100 thousand euros there are - from 16 registered cases only five cases have been completed. I would like to say that the typology of cases to be recovered and the development of centralised methodology according to the categories of cases do not correlate with the amounts to be recovered, but according to the legal specification of the cases. The purpose of my proposals is to determine the amount of the fee charged for the office of bailiffs according to the amount of the work invested and in proportion to the amount of the debt to be recovered, by providing that the bailiff receives an additional remuneration of 2,5 per cent of the amount recovered by the bailiff, but no additional remuneration shall be applied for the part of the debt which has not been recovered until the shooter has referred to the claim. If the claimant withdraws the claim before the money has been collected or the debtor fulfils his obligations until the expiry of the period specified in Section 555(1) of the Civil Procedure Law, a coefficient of 0,3 shall be applied to the remuneration of the post and the fee of one performance case together with the remuneration of the post may not exceed five thousand euros, as a percentage of the amount recovered. The Saeima has been discussing the introduction of low debt coverage in simplified insolvency proceedings for three years, but decisions have not yet been made and laws are not working. Despite the publicly announced amnesty on the write-off of liabilities decommitted during the 2008 crisis, recovery of old debts is still ongoing from the people. Only the farce came from the amnesty. A system that operates on the basis of such principles is neither fair nor legal. It is time to initiate a discussion and change the procedure for calculating remuneration of bailiffs. Therefore, colleagues, please support my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U67	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U68	On behalf of the Commission, I can assure you that there was a long and wide-ranging debate on this issue... but I have analysed the historical changes that occurred during the previous parliamentary term... which have been carried out, and in the past, in the Cabinet of Ministers which has been carried out. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U69	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the proposal tabled by Member Svekova! Please, let's vote! For - 19, for - 46, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U70	4. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Transitional provisions relating to administrative territorial reform and also to rulings of the Constitutional Court shall be established: “The provisions of Section 71(1) of this Law concerning the restriction of an sworn bailiff to perform activities in the territory of the regional court on which he exists shall not apply to activities of the office (Articles 73 and 74 of this Law), which, in relation to the inclusion of Murmastienes parish, Varakļānu parish and Varakļāni city in the territory of the regional court of Latgale for the performance of his duties, the sworn bailiff of Vidzeme regional court shall carry out activities of Latgale regional court in the territory of cases initiated before 30 June 2021.” The proposal was therefore related to the ruling of the Constitutional Court. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U71	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U72	5. - also the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Janis Bordens. Delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers for a request to record the oath... the procedure for recording the facts by an sworn bailiff, and this procedure shall take effect from 1 January 2022. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U73	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U74	6. - the proposal by Member Lubova Svekov. To a certain extent, it is related to proposal 3, which sets a time limit for the entry into force of the rates of remuneration for the duties of bailiffs. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U75	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U76	Thank you, colleagues. This proposal is directly linked and justified... the deadlines governing proposal 3, which the majority of the Saeima regrettably rejected. So I’m so sorry. — Sound Break. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U77	Colleagues, let's wait for one moment, obviously there's a technical problem. Let's wait, maybe we can get the Internet back on track. So, Member Svekov is not able to join the Saeima sitting. Try applying again. ( Pause) No, obviously it doesn't work... and apparently because of the Internet connection. So let us consider the debate closed. And on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U78	Thank you. In the Commission, proposal 6 was not supported. So all the proposals...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U79	Proposal No 6 is also put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U80	Yeah, it's not a vote. All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U81	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Executors of the Court” at second reading! Please, let's vote! For - 64, for - no, for - 2. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U82	The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 days or until 21 June of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U83	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 21 June this year. Draft law “Amendments to Law “On Municipalities”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission – Member Inga Goldberga.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U84	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Local Authorities” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and drafted by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development (No. 1065 Lp13) and supported their orientation to the Parliamentary sitting at first reading. The draft law has been designed to ensure its compliance with the Law on Administrative Territories and Residents, while at the same time providing for more discretion for municipalities in organising the provision of their services. As of 1 July 2021, after the 5 June municipal elections, the newly elected municipal council will be held, as the administrative territories will cease to exist in the republican cities where... in the future, the administration will be implemented by the local government of the state town or municipality. Thus, the draft law provides for the exclusion of references to the cities of the Republic. Also, the Law “On Municipalities” provides for correct references to other laws, with the intention to replace the words “Law on the Status of a Member of a City Council and a Regional Council” with the words “Law on the Status of a Member of a Municipal Council” and “Law on Elections of a City Council and a Regional Council” with the words “Law on Elections of a Municipal Council”. The draft law excludes references to electoral associations which are no longer entitled to submit lists of candidates of municipal councillors. There are also a number of clarifications that determine the organisation of the work of the council and the organisation of the management structures and services. Firstly, it is foreseen that the number of representatives of the list of candidates for municipal councillors on the committee shall be set as much as possible in proportion to the number of members elected from the list of candidates. Secondly, the draft law provides for the possibility for the municipal council to establish the administration of the territorial division unit association and to refuse the possibility to create several parish or city administration in one municipality municipality, as well as to allow the administration of the parish not to be formed, if only one parish belongs to the administrative territory of the municipality. Thirdly, the draft law provides for the abolition of the requirement to harmonise the establishment of administrations with the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and does not restrict the establishment of municipalities or municipalities and city associations from only two territorial units of the municipality. And fourthly, the draft law allows the creation of an association of territorial subdivision units only provided that each of them provides services available to the parish or city administration so far. These are: issuance of certificates and provision of information on issues within the competence of the municipality, adoption of taxes, taxes and charges established by the State and the municipality for services provided by the municipality, payment of municipal social benefits, submission of applications and provision of a response, as well as provision of information on decisions taken by the Council. The draft law provides for the exclusion of services related to acts of civil status from the territorial division of the entity or its association in the administration. The draft law also provides that the conditions laid down in the law “On Municipalities” for the administration of the association, its head and his deputy will be subject to the conditions of the parish or city administration, its head and his deputy. I will remind you that on 1 July 2021 the newly elected municipal council will be held in the new administrative territories, and these amendments are necessary not only to harmonise the laws and regulations, but also to ensure the appropriate work of these newly created municipalities from 1 July of this year until the new Municipal Law enters into force. In the light of the above, on behalf of the Commission, I call on the Saeima to recognise the draft law as urgent and to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U85	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Municipalities” as urgent! Please, let's vote! For - 71, for - 3 and for - 1. The draft law has been declared urgent. Do Members want to debate this draft law? Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Municipalities” at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U86	The deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading of the draft law - one day, 10 June of this year, and the examination of the draft law at second reading - by the Saeima at the meeting of 17 June of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U87	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for proposals - 10 June this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 17 June this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Aigars Bikše.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U88	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” (No. 981/Lp13). The Commission for Education, Culture and Science examined and conceptually supported the progress of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”. The purpose of this draft law is... Thus, the current legal framework provides that a person with a doctoral degree and not less than three years of experience in the position of associate professor or professor at a higher education institution may be elected as a professor. Thus, formal compliance or the actual achievements of candidates in the relevant scientific sector is the basis for the post of professor. Such regulation limits the range of scientists and experts who are eligible for academic posts, also limiting the capacity and competitiveness of higher education institutions, attracting students and integrating into the international scientific and research area. The proposed amendment to the law expands the number of candidates who can apply for competition in academic positions by providing that the position of a professor, associate professor and professor may also be awarded to those scientists and lecturers who are professors, associate professors, professors without a doctoral degree in the European Union, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the United States of America, Canada, Australia and New Zealand. In such a case, the eligibility of candidates would be assessed on the basis of the results of their scientific activities, for example, on the basis of compliance with the qualification criteria of the Latvian Scientific Council expert in the relevant field of science. This would provide an opportunity to use in Latvian universities the experience and knowledge of scientists who have excellent scientific and educational achievements that meet the scientific criteria laid down by law, even if they do not have a doctorate recognised in Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U89	Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U90	Good afternoon, very honourable Chairman of the Saeima. Good afternoon, dear colleagues, honourable colleagues! In essence, we started a discussion on this proposal yesterday, looking at the amendments to the Law on Higher Education - at the big opening where there were 271 proposals for the third reading. And there, too, a similar proposal was made for both the profession and those who could take the position of rector. Mr Bikše said that the Commission supported this draft law for further progress. To say that I did not think it would be right. The Commission decided that it makes sense to open a wider debate on career development opportunities for people in higher education. I would like to name it this way. If we are talking about the particular draft law, I have already spoken about these things in part yesterday's debate, but today I will try to explain... I will first of all say that I will support progress towards this draft law, but I will support it for a completely different reason than Mr Bikše has said. So if we look at the current state of affairs, the existing University Law and also the University Law we've been... whose amendments have been approved have laid down quite strict rules for those who claim to be a professor, associate professor, professor... Thus, for academics, one of these rules is a doctor or a Ph. D. existence of a degree. These amendments propose the replacement of a doctor or Ph. D. degree with quality requirements specified in Section 34, fifth paragraph of the Law. But if you open Section 34, fifth paragraph, and look... Even after yesterday's amendments (which are not particularly relevant to this paragraph), the Cabinet of Ministers has delegated the right to set qualification requirements for both research and academic work as well as for the organizational work necessary for a person to qualify for the position of professor, associate professor. The Cabinet of Ministers has fulfilled the task assigned to it. On 25 February this year, the Cabinet of Ministers has adopted Regulation No. 129 which Point 3.2.1 speaks of the teaching qualifications or their educational qualifications that must be demonstrated to a person who is eligible for a degree as a professor, associate professor... academic office, I'm sorry. What do we read there? The very first point there is is that the professor must have led at least one... at least one promotion work and must have been successfully defended. An associated professor has a slightly reduced requirement. He must be one of his promotions in the driving process. Colleagues, it is quite difficult to imagine that people who have not gone through the promotion process themselves are not Ph themselves. D. or a doctor's degree... that, first of all, they are delegated the right to manage these works, as promotion councils and doctoral programme councils decide whether or not to delegate these rights to a representative of academic staff at all. Second, it is practically difficult to imagine that a person without such experience could successfully do so. Of course, there's a reservation... it could be said that the management of promotion work is one of the eight possible actions, as evidenced by their academic qualifications, but this is the most important activity. People who have worked at universities know that in the current situation in the higher education system of Latvia, the provision of academic staff is precisely that of people with Ph. D. degree or doctoral degree, provision of a generation - is a narrow place because there is a lack of specialists able to manage promotions well. I therefore think that with this proposal, the applicants are shooting themselves in the foot. Practically emerging logic circle - to solve one problem, another problem is created. I could tell quite a lot about how, let us say, long-term employees in the Latvian higher education system have seen the possibility of professional career development – that it may be necessary to go in a completely different direction. And the direction in which you have to go... Partly, the Saeima has started doing so, because the Saeima started doing so at the time of legalising the professional doctorate in art. But the discussions that we have had in the Commission for Education, Culture and Science have practically identified the fact that similar problems are in medicine, similar problems are in business management, where in a number of parts of the world... Well, the callers... leading universities are people... Firstly, those professors' positions are very different there - there are professors who are just reading lectures, and there are professors who are also engaged in research work. But again it's a problem in itself - how to qualify them. But what we should go to in Latvia - we should take a broader look at the possibilities to ensure the acquisition of a professional doctorate or a professional doctorate, not only in art, but also in other directions. Then, in practice, we will tackle a number of problems in such a rational, interconnected way. I think that we will also have discussions about this in the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, at least I will suggest that we go in this direction and see how we can drive them forward so conceptually. But I would still like to touch a little bit on the bill. If you carefully read the annotation of this bill, there is a reference to the fact that the bill... Thus, with this proposed proposal... that it would drive Latvia positively towards the implementation of the Salzburg principles. I admit that most of you... that you have no idea what these loudly called... The loudly called Salzburg principle... or principles. This is about 10 principles. The question is therefore that in February 2005 higher education professionals met in the Austrian city of Salzburg at a seminar. And that seminar was connected with the so-called Bologna Process, with the fact that doctoral studies were ranked as a higher-level study programme above bachelor's programmes, above master's programmes - as a third logical study programme, not only research work, but really a study programme, resulting in which a degree should be awarded, a doctor's degree. And the question was about recommendations to all European countries, as in this common framework of the Bologna Process... how to link this doctoral degree to the lowest degrees, on the one hand, so as not to be unnecessary, say, knowledge... repetition of previously acquired knowledge to have any added value for all of this. And the other thing is that what's done in these doctoral programmes would benefit the economy. To be as focused as possible on the fact that the knowledge acquired by people studying in doctoral studies should be applied not only in the university itself, but also in the relevant field, providing the highest-skilled with a wide range of economic sectors. And it was clear there that every effort should be made to strengthen doctoral studies so that more and more people in the European education area get a doctorate. In this sense, facilitating this process in Latvia would, in my opinion, be exactly a step towards what is in Salzburg's principles. Maybe I'm wrong. If any of my colleagues in the discussions that we will have at the Saeima Commission come and argue the opposite and show how we will live up to Salzburg's principles... but I just wanted to point out that, if you write loud words in the annotations, then it may have to be fully understood how this ties in with the whole process that we are trying to introduce with the particular legislative initiative. As I said, I am calling for support for this draft law at first reading, but I foresee that the Education, Culture and Science Commission will have, let's not say, an impossible mission, but... A fairly complex mission, as from this version, which is now being presented, to create what really would be added value for higher education in Latvia, for the process of higher education. I call for support for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U91	Name to Member Aigar Bikšem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U92	Colleagues! Yes, I agree with Mr. Vucanas, it will certainly be a complicated law, but I think that amendments to the law, the task of which is first to open the door to Latvian higher education institutions for professors of the Latvian Diaspora from English-Saxon universities, are a place... In these universities, not only can a doctorate be elected as a professor, but also a scientist with considerable achievements in some field of science. I want to criticise... There is a letter from the Council for Higher Education with reservations to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science regarding this amendment of the law. It is clear that these reservations are understandable and motivated by the tradition of higher education in Latvia, the higher education system, the desire to protect well-established quality control procedures, and in this procedure doctoral degree is an important step in the academic career ladder. However, I ask you to look at the higher education system, which does not end with the borders of the Republic of Latvia. International practice shows that in countries whose universities seek to attract high-quality practitioners, this is the order. The professors are elected by scientists who are excellent, recognized practical achievements in the sector, but do not defend the doctoral degree. Practice shows that universities, which are included in the tops of world universities (including at the top), are able to do so by electing practitioners also based on practice. Obviously, such a synergistic model, in which doctoral researchers and practitioners work together, can both inspire students and provide a dynamic scientific and educational process. I would like to ask my colleagues in the higher education system of Latvia not to take the procedure for adapting these foreign professors as insulting and discriminatory, it is an opportunity to attract their colleagues with international experience to the Latvian higher education, academic education and science process and environment. I think that such openness will create new challenges for the representatives of the academic environment in Latvia. Such cooperation shall not normally be unilateral. I am sure that the professors who will be elected in this order will open the door to their Latvian colleagues at the universities where they work and have represented themselves. Secondly, when it comes to the election of these professors at higher education institutions in Latvia, I would like to emphasise that this law does not require the election, it allows the election. Nobody revokes the quality control mechanism of higher education in Latvia by which professors' councils examine applications for elected posts. If university councils do not see quality in these candidates, they will not be elected. On the other hand, from the point of view of university programme managers, departmental chairmen, such a law would allow teachers to be included in university programmes more dynamically. This law extends the choice of the university. Higher education institutions have more freedom in the selection of academic staff. I am sure that the law, progressing further, will be improved in the discussions of the committee responsible, will be coordinated in the sector, the amendments will balance the spirit of the law with the spirit of the existing system. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise that when we think about higher education, we think about the student, we want the student at the University of Latvia to receive excellent higher education. In my opinion, excellent higher education comes from outstanding lecturers and this law gives Latvian universities the opportunity to elect, expand the range they need and... which will be excellent. I would also like to say that it will not be that foreign professors will run streams to electoral committees with applications. Probably not. More importantly, by such a law we also make a symbolic step towards the openness of the higher education system in Latvia. Please support the amendments to the law at first reading and allow for a qualitative discussion on the appropriate place of this law in the higher education system of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U93	Mr Kucin, will you have seven minutes to debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U94	Yeah, that's enough.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U95	Name to Member Edgar Kucin.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U96	Hello, colleagues! Unfortunately, the proposed text will not be supported by the SACU Group in the draft law... amendments adopted which provide that a person with educational and scientific qualifications may be elected to the position of professor, associate professor and assistant, but without a doctorate. The amendment of the law is aimed at extending the number of candidates for academic positions to persons without a doctorate from foreign representatives of the European Union, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, as well as the Diaspora. I will draw your attention to the fact that the draft law was not supported by both the Latvian Education and Science Workers' Union and the Higher Education Council. The Latvian Education and Science Workers' Union believes that the existing system in Latvia, that the acquisition of a doctoral degree for a teacher ensures the continuity and hierarchy of academic and scientific activities, is stable and functioning. The introduction of the norm will dispel the work, career and legal confidence of existing lecturers with doctoral degree who work in Latvia. In fact, allowing individuals to stand for certain academic posts without a doctorate, it creates a discriminatory situation in Latvia - just in Latvia! - professional professors, associate professors and professors who were required to obtain a doctoral degree for the relevant academic position. The norm establishes different requirements for applicants and applicants from abroad who live in the same position in Latvia, including representatives of the Diaspora. The Latvian Education and Science Workers' Union also believes that the norm poses a threat to academic and scientific society in Latvia. This practice of law is contrary to the principles of legal equality and equality, as well as... and on the prohibition of discrimination. THE INTERPRETATION group will not support the draft law by abstaining from voting. I also call on my colleagues not to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U97	Mrs Šuplinska, would you have a four-minute debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U98	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U99	Thank you. Name to Member Long Schuplinsk.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U100	Hello! Lobby dyna! Oh, my God! Perhaps just a few clarifications, especially in response to what Mr Kucin said. The first thing you should know is that a doctor's degree in Latvia can be obtained both by developing a work and by presenting a set of publications... or, to be said not only in the form of publications, part of an experiment, which is also described accordingly. I mean, the only way to go to a doctor's degree... not only with a doctorate. That's more... Mr Vucanas, I have to say, this move of thought is how one can run the promotion work of a man who may not have done it himself. In Latvia, too, there are such cases. That's one thing. The second thing that is very precise is not just the salt, but exactly the moment that this young researcher really cooperates with the sector in which he has acquired his particular qualification, and the extent to which he is capable of the specialisation he offers, the qualification takes place on an international scale. Therefore, very many countries have slightly different criteria, which in principle meet similar requirements... what we understand with the dissertation. Here is more a story about how to perceive criteria and what is considered to be the most important - formal criteria or, nevertheless, further involvement of the researcher in his growth, growth and contribution of the sector, whether it be theories or, I must say, development of practice. Therefore, these specific amendments would be vital to ensure that the intellectual potential that has left Latvia, especially, is able to apply its knowledge here in Latvia, thus ensuring both growth, competition and raising the level of quality of Latvian higher education, offering - just as Mr Bikše also said - professional and growth oriented scientific staff. I therefore call for support for this particular draft law and can certainly be debated about how and where these changes should be made more precisely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U101	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U102	The Commission supports the further progress of this draft law. We ask the Saeima to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U103	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”! Please, let's vote! For -59, for -1 and for -18. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U104	The deadline for tabling proposals for second reading would be one month - that is, 8 July.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U105	Thank you. So the deadline for the proposals is 8 July this year. Dear colleagues, Time to break. There's also a record of Members. Registration has taken place. Interruption until 4 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U106	Dear colleagues, We are continuing the sitting of the Saeima, the agenda of the sitting of 27 May. See ‘Amendments to the Immigration Act’ (No. 896/Lp13), second reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U107	Good afternoon, colleagues! In total, eight proposals have been received. The proposal was transposed by a decision of the Commission from another draft law on granting asylum seekers the right to employment within three months (instead of the previous six-month period). The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U108	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U109	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. In order to clarify the wording, it is proposed to exclude Article 1 of the draft law and to change numbering. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U110	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U111	Yeah, thank you. 3. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. This proposal is linked to... on the right of foreigners to appeal against decisions in the Administrative Regional Court. This is after these amendments... because in the past it was intended that you can do it at the highest... The Supreme Administrative Court... The Senate Department. Now it's regional court. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U112	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U113	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. These are editorial clarifications... on the grounds of decision-making. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U114	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U115	5. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It's also a little different in the bill... It is also related to competence - examination of cases in the Administrative Regional Court (formerly - in the Supreme Court). Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U116	And Members also support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U117	6. - Home... the proposal already made by the former Minister for the Interior, Sand Ģürgen. The fact that if a foreigner has taken a negative decision on the basis of secret information of the State Security Service, then in court proceedings... decide how much of this secret information can be disclosed to this foreigner... The State Security Service itself shall decide on the scope of the information to be disclosed. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U118	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U119	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It provides for the exclusion of Article 4 of the draft law, which related to transitional provisions on time limits ( 1 March 2021: this is no longer relevant). The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U120	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U121	And the last one is 8. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. The transitional provision on the fact that the complaint about the decision of the Minister of the Interior regarding the inclusion of a foreigner in the list of foreigners whose entry into the Republic of Latvia is prohibited until the entry into force of these amendments is examined by the Supreme Court and then - by the regional court. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U122	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U123	Consequently, all proposals in this draft law have been examined. I call for support for this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U124	Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Immigration" (No. (896/Lp13) at second reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U125	The deadline for tabling proposals for this draft law is five days - that is, 14 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U126	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 14 June this year. On the agenda - Draft Law on Immigration (No. 916/Lp13), second reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U127	Good afternoon, colleagues! Six proposals have been received for this draft law. 1. - the proposal of the Member Jānis Dombrava, which provides for the foreigner to take responsibility for the foreigner's invited... for foreign nationals invited by deposit of a security deposit with the Treasury. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U128	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U129	Dear Members of the Saeima! Learning abroad is an excellent way of learning skills that are not available in the country. However, it must be understood that this foreign student business is not even a multi-million but a multi-billion business, within which illegal trade of study visas takes place. And almost all the countries of the West are facing it - the United States, Canada, the countries of the European Union. And, in principle, in all regions of the world, where economic development is good enough, there is a problem. In this case, it is proposed that a particular university, which benefits financially from studying foreign students in it, also assumes some responsibility for those students who are selected and invited to Latvia in its selection procedure. In particular, this proposal proposes that this foreign student is obliged to lodge a security of EUR 1000, which returns to the person's account after successful completion of the studies. I would like to point out that a similar provision has already been introduced by certain universities. For example, Riga Technical University already has a security deposit payment. On its website, which is dedicated to foreign students, it writes that the security deposit should be paid together with the study fee for the first year of study and is refunded to the student's account within one month after the termination of the contract for studies at Riga Technical University, unless the student has violated the contract for studies at Riga Technical University and/or the laws and regulations of the Republic of Latvia. So this is a concrete, good example that is already practiced by one particular university, but there are others. If a person may have noticed entering Latvia bypassing the norms of the Immigration Law, and its actual purpose was economic migration, not studies at higher education institutions in Latvia, and the law has been violated, then we have at least an opportunity to recover money from this person, even if the person is no longer in the territory of the Republic of Latvia. I would like to point out that, in general, the problem with such fictitious invitations exists with regard to private universities - small private universities. I really call on my parliamentary colleagues to vote in favour of proposal 1 and the following proposals so that we put this sector in order and put it in order so that public universities, which, however, set an example in this area, can compete for the best students and not for fictitious students. I think it should be supported by the Saeima if you want to strengthen Latvia's higher education and not the business of individual private universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U130	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Rancan... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U131	Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U132	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Dombrava's proposal! Please, let's vote! On - 14, against - 60, refraining from - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U133	2. - That's Mr Dombrava's proposal. It is about refusing or withdrawing approval of a foreigner's call if the guest's share capital is less than EUR 50 000. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U134	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U135	Dear Members of the Saeima! This proposal is not about higher education institutions, colleges and other educational institutions, but about imposing any requirements on companies that are entitled to invite guest workers to Latvia. At the moment, it is in fact possible to set up a SIA for one euro and, by fulfilling certain requirements, send these invitations to foreigners that they can come to Latvia and then they can travel safely to other countries of the European Union and formally count that they are in employment relations here, in Latvia. In order to sort out this norm to some extent, it is proposed to provide that the company, which invites foreigners to work in Latvia, should have at least EUR 50,000 share capital, so that if the State Audit Office finds illegal activities on the part of a particular businessman, the state would have at least some kind of... any possibility to recover losses from this company or to recover fines from this company if it has violated Latvian law. So that this company should not be abolished the day after it is found that Latvia's laws have been violated... suspend its activities. There is one euro share capital, the company has no assets and in fact there is a possibility to invite an unlimited number of foreigners through such a fictitious company. It would therefore be a call to regulate at least in this respect - to some extent, which businesses can call on foreign nationals. In particular, it should be stated that the share capital of a company inviting foreigners must amount to at least EUR 50,000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U136	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U137	I call on you to stick to what has been decided by the Commission in this regard. With regard to equity issues, I would like to point out that, firstly, any amount of equity does not mean that the company has adequate so-called equity capital in its balance sheet liabilities, and this may lead to a situation where the equity capital is, say, one million, but the equity capital is perhaps negative, given the accumulated losses of previous years on this side of the liabilities. As a result, the core capital does not in itself ensure and in no way describe the sustainability of the company. Secondly, the Commercial Law provides that a normal, adequate company must meet this core capital threshold of EUR 2 000, so that it can be considered as an adequate company, one that has the right to withdraw dividends. In the case of small capital SIA, if you wish to withdraw dividends, this share capital must be raised to 2 thousand euros, but, as I said, it does not in any way describe the financial situation of the company; it would be best described by the size and proportion of the equity capital on the liabilities side. So I call on you not to experiment now... in general, do not experiment with this draft law. I invite - if there is interest in accounting issues, economic issues, then you can invite relevant experts and discuss relevant issues within the Commission, you can also invite the State Revenue Service, discuss signs of how to qualify different companies. At the moment, I call for strict adherence to the Commission's decision on this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U138	I closed the debate. Is there something to be added on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Ranzan?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U139	Nothing will be added on behalf of the Commission. The proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U140	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Dombrava's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U141	3. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - The proposal of the “Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK” political group, which provides for the exclusion of paragraph 29 of Section 23 of the Law, which deals with temporary residence permits for foreigners who buy property in certain territories of Latvia. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U142	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ritvar Janson. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U143	Hello! If Latvia's policy continues to follow, there is the impression that there are things that have been stored in almost eternal freezing for many years, no matter what the apparent changes would take place. One such case is the sale of so-called temporary residence permits together with real estate. The gold period of temporary residence permits has been long - at least in its original performance, when customers were sought in Russia and later in Central Asia. When a strongly lobbying programme was launched by certain politicians in mid-2010, it was quite desirable: it was enough with about 70 thousand euros to buy property in the outermost regions of Latvia, or approximately 143 thousand euros - property in Riga, thus obtaining the right to live and operate freely in the European Union. It was praised to us as an investment in the economy, even though the real beneficiaries were only real estate dealers, while citizens, especially the Rigans, still face the problem of a lack of housing stock. It is clear that the continuation of time-limits for residence permits makes no sense. Let me say even more: we do not have to do that. It is clear that there is no significant benefit for Latvia's development and growth from temporary residence permits, but some people have the opportunity to earn money for our common security and damaged state (A sound defect.) ... the cost of the risks. In 2020, 5916 first time residence permits were issued to people who arrived here for a longer period for various reasons. The opinions of the State Security Service delivered to the public in recent years have also consistently called for the temporary residence permit scheme used by investors and related economic risks, counter-intelligence risks and even risks for the protection of constitutional equipment. According to a bright person of Russian literature, trading here is out of place. Last year, the State Security Service continued to carry out checks on foreign investors and real beneficiaries in important transactions for national security, while 763 applicants for temporary residence permits were examined last year. Last year, the most frequent countries of origin of foreign investors applying for temporary residence permits remained unchanged - they were 364 Russian citizens, followed by Ukrainian citizens in proportion - 64, Vietnamese citizens - 59 and Chinese citizens - 31. It can also be noted that 60 persons from countries with increased presence of terrorist groups or other terrorism-related risks also had an interest in obtaining a temporary residence permit in exchange for investment. On the basis of the information obtained, last year the State Security Service encouraged not to grant temporary residence permits to 18 aliens and to withdraw the temporary residence permit granted to two aliens. The grounds for refusal or cancellation necessity were determined by the negative information available to the VDD and the identified risks to the national security of Latvia; it is a legal basis to restrict the presence of foreigners in Latvia, thus also denying the right to obtain temporary residence permits. Although the long-term residence permit programme has been restricted, in its report on last year, the State Security Service issued a negative opinion mainly due to intelligence and economic risks, in some cases both existing. The risks of intelligence are related to the information at the disposal of the service, which indicates that the long-term residence permit applicant is or may be used in foreign specic activities aimed at the interests of Latvia. The risks to economic security, on the other hand, are largely related to the suspicion of possible money laundering through the acquisition of exclusive real estate and investment in the share capital of companies. I call on you to support this - 3. - our proposal from the Group of the National Alliance.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U144	The name is Mr. Janis Wittenberg. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U145	Dear President, Colleagues! A brief overview of the programme. In its 10 years of operation, 19 thousand temporary residence permits have been issued and 86 percent of the total number of permits has been requested by investors from the former USSR countries. The initial arguments put forward in setting up this programme have not been met. This instrument was originally presented as an opportunity to move to Latvia from the regime-refugeing entrepreneurs who will invest in business development. But during the entire programme, the dominant has been this - precisely this investment in real estate. For example, investments in real estate account for 91 per cent of total investment in 2019 and 2020. Investments were made mainly through acquisition of properties in Riga and Jurmala. Here I would like to highlight as one of these contributions the investment made by a Russian citizen. He once bought a manor - a manor in my home village of Zenten - and now the manor is rapidly going to ruin, because this businessman, if he could say so, has never been seen in our village. It is also impossible to contact him in order to clarify his plans for this property. The rumor that you lived in Switzerland. He does not need a manor, which is a cultural monument. It has been just his ticket to Western Europe. I think there is quite a lot of such stories. The importance of investment in the immigration law has decreased and is now no longer an incentive instrument for attracting investment. In 2010, only 0.4 per cent of total investment was attracted. The Ministry of Economics supports the elimination of the provisions of the Immigration Act, which provide for the attraction of such investments, namely the acquisition of real estate in exchange for the possibility of obtaining temporary residence permits, and stresses that the possibility for investors to invest in targeted business development is maintained. And that was the original aim of this programme. So, colleagues, I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U146	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U147	Thanks to Ritvar Janson for the following statistics... Well, calling. It is felt that these data have been collected and analysed. And thank you also to Mr Wittenberg, who is undoubtedly a local Patriot, Zentenes. Well, it's like, what's up with that one manor, right? But I have such a suspicion when I listen to it that... or is it not just a system? So I thought that... In my opinion, there is reason to support this proposal and, in its review of the table, also the next... So, proposals 3 and 4. Proposal No 4 will probably also be the subject of a debate because... To be honest, I was caught by that argument about... Well, that money of uncertain origin has also been invested. We know very well what problems the Latvian financial system has in general been caused by this dubious origin of money. There is no such special welfare for society as a whole, only problems have arisen for the financial system, Latvian entrepreneurs have suffered, therefore the economy has suffered. It seems to me that a much greater benefit would come from ending this practice - and not for ideological or emotional reasons - but because there are indeed these examples, there are statistics. So I conclude that... Well, if we're talking about evidence-based policies, then I... However, at this point in time, I am inclined to... and the young Conservatives are inclined to support proposals 3 and 4 because the consequences of this long-standing practice... However, it is not good to forget them. The new Conservatives will therefore support proposals 3 and 4. I'm calling... Although I had no opportunity to take part in the meeting of the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission and initially thought... But now it seems different... but by listening to their arguments... I think maybe so soon we will not have to discuss the same proposal again. And the opening up of the law must be used, and perhaps it is necessary to try to give Members of the Saeima a voice on this proposal. So we will vote in favour. For aid 3 and 4. ... Well, three and... Yes, thank you Janson and Wittenberg. I have to say that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U148	Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U149	Yes, thank you to the Members of the New Conservative Group for supporting this proposal. I would like to turn to the Group's New Unity. 11 March 2021: Krišjānis Kariņš says that the granting of temporary residence permits for investments in real estate in Latvia should be terminated. And it was written in terms of the fact that during the meeting of Prime Minister Kariņš - this was a government sitting - he admitted that foreign investment, linked to foreign investment in real estate, was counterproductive; it is a loosening from the former policy, it is the last remnant of money transit policy. We'll get away from this, this programme has wasted itself, stressed the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister called for more active thinking about the exporting company... investment attraction, while adding that these investors and their employees could be granted temporary residence permits for work in Latvia. I really hope that you, the Young Unity Group, will vote in line with your Prime Minister's public opinion that this gap from the old-time policy must be closed down to ending the granting of temporary residence permits for investment in real estate in Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U150	Mr Dombrovskis, would it be enough for you to have four minutes in the debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U151	Then after... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U152	Then after a break. We have to break. The break is 15 minutes. If the clock is 17.26, it means we meet at 5.40 p.m. Only registration of the presence of Members. This has happened. So a break of 15 minutes - by 5.40 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U153	Dear Members and honourable Members, We shall continue to examine the agenda of the remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 27 May 2021. We look at the draft law "Amendments to the Immigration Act", second reading. The proposal 3 has been the subject of a debate. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U154	Highly respected head of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, At first, I do not intend to talk about any of these proposals at all, because in general, this is all clear and has been seen more than once. Amendments to the Immigration Act Well, of course, there are a number of proposals from the National Alliance that would, of course, be against any form of immigration, whether it be foreign students, employees, investors or... That's what's in there. Well, nothing like that, so to say, it's not weird or abstract here. But what makes this day really historic - it is a speech by the Minister for Economic Affairs and, to say the same, participation, support for such proposals, because I do not remember any economic ministers, nor have I heard of any economic minister in any other country who opposes investment - against investment! - Even if its investments are, so to say... Maybe many invested in real estate. Investments in real estate are also investments. I think even to Mr. Feldman that's... should be clear. So... Here, several colleagues said that there is nothing good about investment. I will not be talking here about those undisputed risks that, of course, exist when this TUA programme is abused. Of course, there is nothing clearly good, so to say, and bright in this world, but colleagues, to say that out of this TUA programme and from these investments in real estate, there is nothing good... Well, at least for the Minister of Economics, it is not quite apologies, colleagues, because yet... Well, I think this can be understood... Even a student can understand it, even a child can understand it. Colleagues! If one of the people of Latvia sells their home or apartment for 250 thousand euros and this money, that 250 thousand euros, does not come from another citizen of Latvia, does not come from the state budget of Latvia, but comes from another country, it means that money has arrived in the country, 250 thousand euros, and one of the people of Latvia has received this money, and if he (or she) or his family has received this money, then it means that with this money they can do a number of good things for themselves and for the state of Latvia - provided, of course, that when they take this money for their property, they will not immediately give it to Ireland or the United Kingdom, or to leave Latvia for the rest of their lives. But if not, then... colleagues, then perhaps they will buy a better house for themselves, maybe they will also make repairs, thus giving people jobs in the construction sector; maybe they will be able to afford good education for their children, and that would not be possible if they did not have that money at all. So, colleagues, now at least the Minister for Economics today... He said that he fully supported this programme, which is against investment. Well, at least the Minister of Economics should have listened to that issue today - whatever his new, so to speak, partisan membership. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U155	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U156	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, I also, in this respect... I would like to speak after everything I have heard before. It was very strange to listen to it about these investments - that we do not need them, that we can leave them calmly. If we look at this rate now - 250 thousand, which I think is not a small amount - and all those other restrictions... I think this programme... Well, if someone wants only such a residence permit in the European Union... I think there are other, much more competitive countries in the European Union that are able to offer such a offer much more easily to someone who really wants to invest only to obtain this permit to live in Switzerland or Poland or England or Ireland... no matter where, but where this permission gives you any privileges. Such a serious business was once where entrepreneurs trusted in the programme and invested in some development, invested some amounts. But now... It's been a long time... This programme has, by its very nature, been long overdue in Latvia, it exists for individual cases, and now it would be rather a question whether anyone has a vision, how we continue it and make it perhaps in some way attractive, because the situation that is now is really not normal, I think. The fact that we seem to have the possibility of obtaining this residence permit - a rather large discussion in the Saeima every time this law is opened - is that there is someone who thinks it is necessary; there is someone who does not think it is necessary. But this program itself is, well, such a pointless product, because there must be some special offer for an entrepreneur or a person who would like to get this term residence permit... There must be a special condition for him to choose Latvia exactly where to get it. Not only is Latvia offering such opportunities; it is equally good for a person to invest in another country of the European Union. I would like to live in Latvia - he has all the possibilities. That's why the Ministry responsible for this programme would rather... and it has now come to Development/About! visual... and the new minister should have some vision of what we are doing with this programme - whether it remains what it is, or we are simply eliminating it, because it is what it is now... I think it's quite unattractive. However, despite these rather high restrictions, there are people who buy property in Latvia, as Mr Dombrovskis said - someone finds it, and someone else, a Latvian citizen, has an opportunity to sell it here. That it would be some fucking area... Some end up in a good economy... an area from which the whole economy would develop... I think that this is not the case at the moment, but for some people, however, it gives some opportunity to sell their property. That is why I am calling for this issue to be taken very seriously, and I am not in any way in favour of this proposal today, because I think it is... put to have only what to talk about in the Saeima. Let's get it out of here... Is that so? But at the same time... if we were to support this proposal, something would also remain there... And even if someone has a special desire to buy property in other ways, he will be able to do so calmly, in return for a temporary residence permit. This proposal does not fully address this. Therefore, my fellow Members, I would call for this proposal to be rejected, but... come with some kind of government vision. Maybe the National Association... if it is so important for you, now encourage such a debate in the government so that the government can accept its vision if Krišjānis Kariņš has already said so that it does not need to be in real estate... Let the government then offer its vision of how this area should either develop or... how we put an end to it. Now... the situation that is now is not really any - we have a programme that simply exists, but the meanings of it, I would say, are not particularly great. There's only such a big slap around this program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U157	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U158	Hello, colleagues! My speech will also be a reflection on the presentation by the Minister for Economic Affairs, Jānis Vitenbergs. The Minister must not be so light on statistics. I mean, against the fact that statistics as such aren't... Well, at least Mr. Wittenberg, we don't have a word... Could the Minister tell you how many million were invested in Latvia over these years while working on this norm? Maybe it's already a billion? He did not provide us with such statistics. But one was served... The only example is about Zentene Manor. I've been there. And here, in my opinion, there is a second error by the Minister of Economics, because two problems are mixed: investment against a residence permit (i.e. the issue of immigration) with the question of the state of real estate (i.e. the situation of a particular real estate). There are no statistics, no compilations of information, too. Perhaps there are hundreds, perhaps even thousands, of buildings that have been renovated for investment money; people have received a residence permit for these investments. More. As I said, I was in Zentene Manor. I can assure you that Zentene Manor has at least a roof and this building is preserved. At least there are no trees in the former halls and rooms. But how many manors where trees grow, which are fully demolished to stand, empty windows and roofless, all over Latvia?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And most of them are manor buildings, where once there were schools... where once there were schools, as in Zentene Manor, and where there are no schools anymore, because there are no children who could learn there. And this is another problem that the honourable Minister for Economics has not mentioned. I could tell a long story about buildings that are set up in demolished, without roofs and without windows right here in Riga, which are owned by the state and under the control of the State Real Estate. I could even address you to say. For example, buildings in the former Daugavgrīva district, where they were part of Soviet troops. These buildings belong to different ministries, and no one has any business along those buildings. So, Mr Wittenberg, you could also study Riga with regard to this problem. And there's something else I could recommend to you. Well, think about it, maybe maybe you could really make some changes to the law that would solve this problem with this particular manor, Zentene Manor, so that you could dispose of this property to this naughty owner. Just the question, who's going to make it? Will the newly created municipality be able to even... if not buy out, then at least maintain this building? And, above all, for what purpose? Because, as I said, schools are not there, school can't be there because there's no one to study there. What about this building? What is the way out? You don't offer an exit. You offer an absolutely destructive way that will not allow Latvia to receive investments that can be measured in thousands, hundreds of thousands and even millions, and the fate of Zentene Manor will not be resolved, believe me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U159	The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U160	Hello, chair of the sitting! Hello, colleagues! Looking at this proposal, the malteser has shined through for years - the Russians are coming! The Russians have come, they have come, they have not come. And now in Latvia from this Russian coming... There is no indication that they have arrived. Why am I now speaking on this proposal? Currently, Latvia has already been redeemed - and has been redeemed because for more than 20 years, the government and the Saeima cannot figure out how to limit the sale of property to the citizens of the European Union. Unfortunately, in the area in which I work and from which I come - that is forestry - very large private forest assets are currently at the disposal of Swedish or Danish pension funds. Let health, of course, of all those pensioners whose money managers have found a successful place where their capital, as they say, develop and grow. Returning to the question of prohibiting all temporary residence permits at all, I would like to remind my fellow Members that not only the Russians are living outside the European Union, but also our allies - American citizens, our allies - Australia, as well as other countries that are not at all hostile to Latvia. And when we cut it like this, we lose some attractiveness for this European... not European... In the eyes of the people of Europe. The next point I would like to make is: Have any of you tried to open a bank account and experienced everything that banks are now asking for? It has already gone so far that it's only left to ask, apologies, urine analysis and x-ray for five years. The rest is now being demanded by banks from a normal person who has a transparent cash flow and has no fraudulent features. Then explain to me how some dirty capital in Latvia can come in, if even a normal person here has problems operating with his money in a bank... in the banks at all? I understand that this speech will be ‘translated’ by the National Union with a signature that I support the Russians and that the Russians will now come and... other types of stories that support Russian. No, I am in favour of free capital entering Latvia; this would bring about a certain amount of money in our economy. And there should be no separation of capital on the basis of nationality. Once again, I call on my fellow Members not to make the wrong move simply because there is a political power to present it all as some kind of loss of national sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U161	We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U162	Hello, colleagues! In general, listen strangely, on the part of the Minister for Economic Affairs, to hear about the fact that the country does not need investment. But it was even more strange to hear from the Prime Minister that we do not need transit and banking business and that we will now have some kind of smart business that I do not see yet... and I don't know when that day will come. I hope we can live until then. At least the Minister for Economics had to know what the investments were about. Representatives of the Ministry of Economics had always come to the Commission with specific numbers of investments in Latvia... Latvia's economy, and it is measured in billions. And you know... now it sounds ironic, but unfortunately, there are quite few ironies there. That's a strange coincidence. Just as the Russian government states that it is necessary to make investments from abroad return to Russia, to us it is the National Association that is actively starting to comply with the Immigration Law, making it difficult in all ways to obtain temporary residence permits... Both for property and for what concerns business, and for... what concerns banking activities and so on. Just as Russia announces that money needs to come back to Russia from Western banks, "capital repairs" starts with us. The result is that the banking sector in our country lost €11.5 billion. They go either back to Russia... He left or back to our neighbors right here. And let's remember even more anecdotes. When, in Russia, the narrow circle began to talk about the fact that the aviation base ship that is being built in France is not needed (and indeed not necessary for Russia's circumstances), our Foreign Minister was very expensive; the result was that France broke the contract and paid Russia a lot of pain - one and a half billion if I did not make a mistake - and that, the aviation base ship, went to Egypt, and Russia built a modern aviation base ship for that money. Everyone is pleased, but it is only a question: what is happening along all this is the National Union and our Foreign Minister. Ten years ago, they started playing... The West started to play Lukashenko's card that he'll be that good, and in any case, he'll be scared from Russia... that he was right; took away the various sanctions imposed until then. But with these slashes of the flag and all other actions, on the contrary, you have achieved that this approach is inevitable. The same applies to the closerness between Russia and China. The question is who works for whom? And here I have to agree with my colleague, Mr. Zarins, that the Kremlin's agents obviously have a national colour. This is not the first time that we are debating this issue, and not the first time that all these arguments are being made, only the first time that an economic minister does not think about economic development, does not think about investment, but declares that we do not need investment. I call for this proposal to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U163	The name of the Member, John Isal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U164	Colleagues! I remember that in 2013, when the National Association managed to put some grass on this Schleser programme, I took part in a business discussion that also included Mr Schleser. I defended the position of the National Alliance, and in that discussion, Mr Šleser's text threatened to destroy the National Union. The outcome is quite the opposite. Mr Šleser has gone on the political path, while the National Union is stronger than ever. Today we hear that some former and existing Kremlin... Members of consensus teach the Minister for Economics what he should say or not. On the contrary, I would like to commend the Minister for Economic Affairs. We finally have an economic minister who is thinking about the interests of Latvian citizens, not about different foreign buyers. Colleagues! I think no one has any doubt that this programme will be terminated at all, but in your hands it is whether you will be the politicians who will walk along the pine trail, just like Shlesser, supporting Latvia... the sale of residence permits for money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U165	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U166	Well, I don't think I'm gonna try to empty all the stories I've been talking about before. The fact that the National Association has problems with both economic understanding and the fact that they are already hidden... it just becomes the policy implementers of the Kremlin here in Latvia - this, in my opinion, is visible to everyone. I wish now... Please, with concrete facts... exactly what you have just said about both your Minister for Economic Affairs and everything you said here... What exactly have you done for Latvia in this regard - without having put in the grips of someone? How in particular, in this particular aspect, is this concern now expressed for the people of Latvia? I will comment on this programme. I see that, in fact, this programme for Latvia would be necessary and useful, all depends on how it is implemented. What you are demonstrating at the moment is another obvious example of this government's failure, incompetentness. That is, if you don't know a process and you can't lead it, then you figure out: well, we'd rather kill it at all, so that there's nothing out of it, even though, actually! - this process can be very useful. National Association, if you remember... you've somehow defaulted why... You did not tell us why the financing of new family apartments and housing was suddenly interrupted. Why? ‘ Thanks to you, because all this was financed from the residence permit money. And that is your merit, your efforts! You have achieved that our new Latvian families do not have the opportunity to get to this funding, because that is simply not the case! It came from this program that you cut, and you turned around. I can see that in the situation... I see that the National Union has no sense of economics or geopoliticals, they are implementing the Kremlin's policy, because in the present situation, when we see what is happening to our eastern neighbours... Instead of creating opportunities here for people who are able to earn, who are economically active, and instead of being able to find a home for themselves here, we are doing the opposite: we are saying: no, you can't drive here! We will burden them with the system, we will make it difficult for them to stay here; it is better for them to stay under those regimes and be able to settle with them there. That is your objective, which you want to achieve. If someone says that this programme would harm Latvians or Latvians... On the contrary, this programme, if it is done correctly, will help. Yeah, first... point number one, which should really be done - I think this programme should be improved, it should be developed, not cut off. So point number one, what should be done if we talk about real estate, these real estate... should foresee that it's just... that the value of the land does not go in there. And then, please come and buy, give the opportunity, turnover to our builders, our managers, because every such purchased property will promote internal consumption, promote employment. It's gonna be a good thing. In addition, in parallel... I ask you to think about it: if the person who comes here is ready to invest here, all these procedures will be done, which means that he wants to legalize as much as possible here. So such a person will be more responsible for his actions here than just someone who comes in, say, with bad intentions; such a person will not need all these things, they can be implemented in a completely different way. It will also be more convenient for such people to be controlled (in particular, taking into account all the new aspects that have emerged in connection with digitalisation, where our opportunities are growing significantly), and for all these records, the browsing of this programme could be carried out more effectively. So I think we should... on the contrary, on the contrary! - think about how this programme could be used more effectively, because there are many opportunities here. We can learn from this very story of Belarus... the extent to which Lithuania was able to use it and the extent to which it was Latvia, because the difference is ten times. That's what we're missing. This would be one of the ways in which it would be possible, if it were correctly put together, to do so. Of course, it is not weak and incompetent, as this government has done. There are opportunities, and I call for them to be used. I call on the Minister for Economics to apply for a debate and to explain where there is harm to this programme and why he is against this programme, why he is against the development of the country, against the fact that we are getting in here, the economically active people who are prepared to invest here, ready to belong to this place and take some responsibility for it. The result would be that we would all benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U167	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U168	Good evening, honourable colleagues! Now it's a late night, we're still working, but it's good that the sun shines and is still warm. I would like to remind you: when this programme started, Latvia was in a deep, deep crisis, where it still... We haven't yet... by the end of 2008... And then we had no money. That's our need to reduce protection to 50 percent... the Ministry... in the budget... Protection... the Ministry... Very many people left or were retired both from the army and from the Ministry of the Interior and other public institutions. So it was a crisis. And what... in those years... At least one and a half billion, one and a half billion! - came here in the Latvian economy, it is very much; social benefits were paid from it, as well as supporting doctors, educators and others. So it helps. The fact that... The Ministry of Economics did not prepare for additional... does not offer a proposal to make its programme even more effective, even more attractive to the same businesses that already put their feet on... with his family... here and have been authorised to stay in the Schengen area. We did not work closely with them, and that is why they left for Switzerland or another country. That's our fault. That's our fault! It is precisely the Ministry of Economics, it is the fault of the Cabinet of Ministers. It's not that they invest too little... Perhaps the price they have to pay for the Schengen visa is very high? Maybe we need to lower their price, and then maybe there will be a rise at once. That's all we have to think about, it's all we have to do, but... I think during breaks you had time to walk right here in the Old Town, and you noticed that every third house in the Old Town, here even, around the Saeima, was not inhabited. Don't go and look all over Latvia for manors, look here in the historical center of Riga - every third house stands empty, uninhabited. So it's not... Where is its investment? We invest money in the Occupation Museum of Latvia, and this is very important, but we do not invest money in people who are here, live here and want to live here, and therefore people are leaving. In those years at least 400 thousand (or even more!) left Latvia. people who had to work here and invest money here. So maybe Mr. Kariņš needs to ask why his homeland doesn't invest money here, in our economy. Why can't he invite businessmen to bring billions of money to Latvia? Unfortunately, no. And the European Union - also... Says: Yes, we are burdened with our laws, with the laws of criminal, illegal money. It is now so difficult to start investing in the Latvian economy that it is better to go to Lithuania and invest there. We see that America's almost the richest man Mask is starting to invest money in the Lithuanian economy, not in Latvia. We need to think about why Lithuania is much more attractive than Latvia, we do not need to slow down the economy. We need money, and money is never too much, but we need to be smart and think. So, Vitenberg, we shouldn't teach us, we never led the Ministry of Economics, always led it by leading politicians. And when the slogan “Russian agents” comes, look at their history, who were Russian agents, where they came from, whether they were Russian nationalities or Latvian nationalities. So... And I'm sure that stick is on your side... You need to bow down, forgive me, before all the people for what you worked... for the same Russians... Russian agents. And you work against our country. So I call for this proposal not to be supported and for it to go further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U169	Name to Member Janis Dombrava for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U170	It is fantastic to see how many people are worried, including those who received generous donations from temporary residence permit traders in the past. I'd like to... Maybe step by step... Mr Valaiņa's words. I'm not going to go into the details of the content, but... Mr Valaiņš, what did you do if I am not wrong, in 2014, when you visited Members of the Saeima, representing an association whose main aim was to lobbying the trade in residence permits? Now don't come to the platform now, and don't try to do the same again. I don't know if there's something you're getting or not, but... Well, it's really unpleasant. You're a professional politician, don't do that. The Minister for Economic Affairs, on the subject of his criticism. Now don't teach us how to run the economy! I understand that your approach to managing the economy is to sell land, houses, visas, residence permits, passports - everything we can, we sell away. That you get the money - and preferably from Russia! Our vision is that we take care of the people of our country. The national association was the one that said that we would replace this programme with a family guarantee programme. This programme was set up and the issue of funding was also organised there. With this housing guarantee scheme, 15 thousand families have been able to get to their homes. And the real estate market has actually been arranged. In the past, it was only for foreigners; now it is our citizens. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U171	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U172	I, too, do not at times understand the statements made by some colleagues that it is necessary to maintain the existence of these residence permits, which are granted against investment in real estate. Not investments in real estate give them the largest contribution to the Latvian state. If a person really wants to go to Latvia, then Latvia will appreciate his work at one of the workplaces. If he is a highly qualified specialist, he can get a work permit – please go to work! - and that will also be his contribution to which he will be able to get permission to stay here in Latvia. But if you just buy real estate and then rent it or sell it, or you don't know... Well, I don't understand why it is necessary. If a person is a serious entrepreneur, then he can invest and develop the company, he will also have the opportunity to be here to work. If he is a serious specialist, highly qualified, he would also have such an opportunity. Why do we need to put an additional burden on our financial institutions, make them check the origin of money and do not know any unnecessary things yet? Consequently, in my opinion, the proposal is very logical and I call for support for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U173	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U174	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues! I would ask you not to support this proposal and I will explain for what reasons. The reasons are as follows: Latvia stands out among the Baltic countries with an inconsistent approach to developing investment policy. There is an ongoing approach, there is a lack of a systemic approach. The fact that Latvia's GDP per capita is one of the lowest among all the countries of the European Union is evidence that the Ministry of Economics of Latvia (also under the leadership of Mr Wittenberg) has done nothing excellent and qualitative enough to ensure that Latvia's citizens have an increase in welfare and its compliance with at least the average standard of living in the European Union. Unfortunately, there is no professionalism, no systemic approach, inconsistent behaviour is covered with demagogy, with speaking, with... Lack of consistency - this also leads to the fact that, in economic development, we are unable to compete between the Baltic States. Both Estonia and Lithuania are ahead of us and quite impressive. Compared to Estonia, Latvia's economic development lags behind by about ten years. Inconsistency in investment policy - this is also one of the reasons why Latvia is lagging behind in development. All "capital repairs", all the discussions and the loud slogans - this is just talking; unfortunately, we are lagging behind with works, with concrete concerns for the well-being of the population. And all of this can be seen in the statistical compilations as well as in the welfare level of the inhabitants of Latvia. Please do not support inconsistent, unthinking and without systematic approach and weighing... go ahead with the proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U175	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U176	I think that, in fact, everything is clear to those who follow the debate. The National Association was given an opportunity to come and argue, here to say something. We heard they're dealing with empty demagogy. No specific argument, just lies and demagogy, which... all could be rebutted if there were anything to talk about. There is also an opportunity for the Minister for Economics to apply for a debate and, however, to demonstrate his competence... either, or - to confirm that he is in fact incompetent and does not even understand what he is talking about, thus demonstrating the economic competence of the National Association. If we are talking about all these things, however, I would like to hear certain facts, not attempts to insult certain people about what they have or have not done. When I spoke, I specifically listed how I see how this programme can work for Latvia, for the benefit of Latvian citizens, safe and bring economic benefits. You can do this, but you're all... you do everything you did with both the purchase of the vaccine and the OIC. By the way, OIK - it's a separate story; your Minister for Economics could tell you how he is covering this afer. Unfortunately, they cover many millions of losses to Latvians and all Latvians by already violating the law. These are verifiable facts, and I will put them in front of you, and you will be able to tell and explain how competent and effective you are and how you take care of your constituents, even though in fact you are simply looking for the next opportunity where you can create some resistance with your rhetoric: “The Russians are coming! English, don’t give up!” That's the only thing you're interested in. You are not interested in the care of the Latvian people. You are interested in how you can pose another threat to it, so that you can then speak as advocates. This is what you are currently doing; otherwise you will now develop a powerful tool with which we can attract a lot of resources and help your... addressing these problems. You can't do that. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U177	Name to Member Ritvar Janson for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U178	Colleagues! Member Zarins is dealing with lies. Not only has the funding of the support programme "Family support for families with children" not been reduced, but has even increased. But that's it. On 20 October last year, the European Commission opened infringement proceedings against Cyprus and Malta in connection with the so-called gold passport programmes, or essentially the sale of citizenship, carried out in both countries. This is contrary to the relevant Articles of the Treaty on European Union and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It's nothing new. In Brussels, too, last year, the conclusions were made that these programmes create the conditions for various threats and for the washing of dirty money. The European Commission's report published at the beginning of last year also criticises much of the European countries' practice of related schemes. The grounds for the existence of a system of temporary residence permits are weak. Its supporters and traders of residence permits regularly apply for large amounts spent on the purchase of residence permits, but often ignores the fact that money does not most of the time reach the Latvian economy. Timeshare permits have increased the cadastral value of land in Jurmala, Riga and Pierīga, which, in turn, has increased taxes on local residents who already have property in generations. Compared to the practice of other European countries, Latvia is demanding very few temporary residence permits from a foreigner – in fact only it is possible to acquire property above the specified threshold value. Other European countries have a different policy on time-limiting permits: there are quotas, requests for real investment, and people who want a time-limiting permit are subject to scrutiny. There was no complete practice in Latvia for years.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U179	Mr. Janson, it's time... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U180	I call for support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U181	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U182	Now take the air, the National Association and the CROSS! The first is a rhetorical question: DID you really have no PR specialist who can give you some lesson - what to say, how to talk, when not to talk?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Because, in my opinion, this question was one that you really... I just didn't have to talk. I do not need to listen to the debate between the National Association of Hours and the SAICAN on who is on which side of the Bastion, everything is clear there. In this way, it is simple, either, to blow up the sparks for one party or for the other party. I have a lot of surprise... and attention... the fact that I hear that Mr Adamson knows so well what is happening in Russia - the year in which month on which date. Mr Adamson, you are, in my opinion, the only member of the Latvian Saeima who receives a pension from both the taxpayers of Latvia and the taxpayers of the Russian Federation. And you're getting up in the podium now and you start talking about it... that this is what it must be. Well, that raises questions. Why are you talking about this, Mr. Adamson? Mr. Zarins, well, I understand, you always have an opinion. And it's cool that there's that opinion. But there are some questions that... Is that the duck's personal? What do you mean now? National association. Mr. Izalnieks sits, John, yes. Sitting -- and so proud and so sure: Shlesser told me like this, but I'm Shlesser here, and, uh, Shlesser is there now, a I'm here... And wot, yes, here! Yeah, that's it. Don't be serious! And that's not an argument. It's not... I think I shouldn't have seen any duel at all. And I'm frightened by the fact that - we're as strong a party as never before, and then so: wow, wow, wow, where am I? I've got... Well, I have the opportunity to speak, I can still speak, thank God. Then I press the button and apply when everyone has spoken second time. Colleagues! After all, the Commission has spoken about this. It was not that it was simply accidentally on the Saeima's agenda and that it was not discussed by the Commission. To the rapporteur, please tell me how you went on with this issue, what was the vote, how was the vote, how was the coalition's own vote. I believe that right now, on these emotions, on the hot coals that everyone has packed on each other's surface... Do not take such a decision, go with the commission. And if the commission has decided, it shall remain so. Not at this moment, when the Alfalz like King Kong shook himself in his chest--I, I, I, I! - and in return he has Zarin and Adamson, and Regina, and also Minister Wittenberg, a member of Zentene, who has seen the manor... What is that now? Please write all these requests... Like... or Mr. Eglitis, Minister for Welfare... You write about the fact that he has written something on the Twitter... Now, public resources will be spent, commission meetings will be done, whether he has written or not. Yesterday, however, the Commission for Mandate, Ethics and Application clarified everything. Please write now about the Minister for Economics, whom he has said... how he could have said that... Members, including... There, Mr Wittenberg has taken up the debate. It's not a serious debate, it's a funny debate. Do you want the news to show up tonight? Come on, come on, come on! What's that gonna look like? After the lunapark. Thank you. Come on, please, accompanied by the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U183	The name of Member Regina Lochmele for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U184	Thank you. The rhetoric of the National Alliance leads to very interesting arguments for which they are asking you to vote in favour of this proposal. The arguments are, in fact, absolutely different. The National Association calls for this provision to be removed from law only because of its ideology. And even appeal to SASKANS - that it turns out, it's SASKANS who sells Latvia's land, maybe also Latvia's forests. All right, then I'll talk to the arguments. In several regions of Latvia, almost half of the country belongs to foreigners. (Source: ‘De Facto’ and ‘Lursoft’) Foreigners own Latvian land area, which is 11 times larger than Riga. Large companies own 340 thousand hectares of Latvia's agricultural and forest land. More than half of the areas actually owned come from Sweden, Denmark and Germany. ( Again, the source is the State Land Service, “Lursoft” and the program “De Facto”). So, Mr. Dombrava, who sells Latvian land and Latvian forests? Think about it before you claim something so funny that Mr. Kitty just told us about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U185	The name to Member Janis Wittenberg for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U186	Thank your colleagues. I did not expect such a wide-ranging debate on this issue. I would remind you that this programme is reducing its volumes rapidly every year. We are currently talking about 100 citizens who buy property in Riga or Jurmala. As I heard from my colleague, Zarina, that the housing programme has been demolished or that funding will be demolished, then I remind you: the housing programme for young families, the new specialists continue to work. In total, some 17 thousand have taken advantage of this opportunity... New families. In addition, we have complemented and improved the programme by including a support programme for "Volsts", where our large children's families have the opportunity to receive a grant from a state grant to buy housing. It is a unprecedented event so far, which is also being actively exploited by large families, and I hope that it will contribute to our local, large families... to form even more. It's a great opportunity for them to get to such a house. So this programme will continue. Is it possible to use this for our potential investors by investing EUR 100 000 in our business and by obtaining these temporary residence permits, that is to say, targeted, as we would like to? I'm going to put France, for example: the same threshold is - 10 million. The Netherlands - over one million, Germany - million, Austria - 10 million. Since its opportunities for our investors have a lower access threshold and they have opportunities to come and invest in an targeted way, we would also like to do so. When discussing this issue with the Investment and Development Agency of Latvia, they also admit that it is a good carrot to attract... And we have made improvements in many other programmes, such as the Green Corridor, so that these investments can be attracted. So that we continue, colleagues, to work together, but this tool is wasted on itself, and it does not really use it right now.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U187	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U188	Thank you, President. Colleagues! Well, if we talk about something, then let us talk about facts and figures, because it is absolutely clear that the “new” and “old” economic minister should actually open his new political roof. This, of course, does not cause any surprise. But, colleagues, you're not well prepared. Mr Janson, you have quoted documents that are specifically about gold passports, so about citizenship. No international document on investment attraction in exchange for residence permits... No similar findings are observed. And... Some Members said something there... Like our Saeima... But now its programme is widespread, and there are no legal obstacles to it, because... As regards Cyprus and Malta... Well, its Member States really went too far and a number of aliens received European citizenship, so it also caused frustration and great criticism from both the European Commission and the European Parliament. But about investments... There is no such thing. Mr Wittenberg, you mentioned some countries, but you did not mention those countries where a residence permit in exchange for investments is much easier to obtain and much cheaper than in Latvia. You did not mention Bulgaria, you did not mention yet a whole number of countries. And indeed, this is not the first time we are talking about this problem. In another context, we... We also talked about Belarus because... Indeed, we adopted a statement - a political statement. There we are all right, even every Thursday we can vote. How, though, can we give practical help to these people? Look at how many of them are... Well, I will not say - in the shelter, I will say - at the workplace, because those businessmen from Belarus who really want to escape from the dictator, from Lukashenko's regime, want and are capable of working. How many of them actually stayed in Latvia, and how many in Lithuania and even in Estonia, which is much further away from Belarus? Everything is absolutely clear there. Not the economy is the cause of National Alliances and so... Either, the Minister of the new self-governed National Association (not clear.) ... The main thing is a truly political setting. You want borders to be closed and... and economic considerations are only a pretext. But it's really harmful. You say that there are suspicious persons, there are threats to security, but the law already provides for rather thorough checks. You do not believe our security authorities, our competent authorities: they work badly if they cannot detect the abuse of this system. In my view, our security guards work well, and indeed there are quite a lot of suspicious candidates. And there are numbers, too, and you can get to know those numbers. And the last one. Well, really... Mr Witenberg, to mention one particular case: it is not a deserving act of the Minister. And I can't disagree with Mrs. Lochmele. What would happen to this building and to this land if a foreigner did not buy it? Would that be a better situation? There are no problems, money has been paid, money has arrived in Latvia. Let this man live somewhere in Europe! You're sorry? You should be glad that he decided not to stay in Latvia or threaten the uniqueness of our culture and so on. It is clear that this proposal is entirely politically motivated. I'm always to call things in the right name. And, I'm sorry, your economic arguments do not pass any criticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U189	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U190	The President of the sitting. Colleagues! At the pace of development of housing construction, Latvia has long fallen from Lithuania and Estonia, if we compare, let us accept the volumes of housing in the capitals of the Baltic States. And there are very many different reasons for it. Of course, one of the reasons is also demand and the possibility for citizens to buy these new properties at all. And actually, these residence permits... There were a lot of entrepreneurs, and it was one of those, in my opinion, the only opportunities to base their business at all; there were many buildings that were actually built with the aim of selling these apartments... as temporary residence permits. And, in a way, during the crisis that took place in 2009, it helped many businesses survive. Much has changed since then, and this programme too... I think it lives more in a kind of environment than in an economy-based reality. For a long time, no businessman has used this program as a basis for the development of his business, but yet it is. I call once again on the Ministry of the Interior, together with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, to come and create a general vision of the government (with the involvement of the National Union) as this common policy will then be. Otherwise, we're in the house - no, business - yes... But on the other hand, how will this programme be competitive? will be able to compete with other countries, and what added value will this bring? That is why, in my opinion, this issue is very unprepared at the moment. I call for this proposal to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U191	The debate is closed. Mr. Rancan, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U192	Nothing will be added on behalf of the Commission except that this proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U193	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal put forward by the Group for Homeland and Freedom/LNNK! Please vote mode! On - 26, against - 46, refraining from - 8. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U194	Proposal No 4 is very similar to the previous one, it is about issuing temporary residence permits against investment, but this time it is about excluding paragraph 30. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U195	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edvin Schnorem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U196	Hello, dear colleagues! Yes, there was a wide-ranging debate on this proposal within the Commission, during which a representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, who spoke with a presentation and informed us about quite interesting data, referred, for example, to statistics that over the last two years... it was said that since 2018 in this programme (so - temporary residence permits in exchange for investments in Latvian banks)... that no applications have been received in full during that period. So this programme exists, it is maintained, administrative resources are spent, but the return on it is absolutely nothing, absolutely no application has been received. Therefore, let us say that those interested in this economic contribution have quite clear data. In our commission we also received information not only about the fact that, let us say, there is no money coming from this specific section of the sub-programme, but also about the fact that it is even a loss in certain cases. Znotiņa, Head of the Financial Intelligence Service, who informed us that there were cases... and specifically she spoke about one case: that a Russian citizen, who has committed a financial crime here in Latvia, has come to her client base and who has come here in Latvia as a result of this temporary residence permit trading programme. And it's happened in a situation where... As has already been pointed out here, the security service is carrying out these checks and bringing down potentially dangerous investors, but there are still some who go through this sieve. And... well, it was specifically about this one case, where there is not a benefit, but a total direct loss to the Latvian economy in this area. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the safety authorities have already drawn attention in advance to these various risks, not only to safety risks. And specifically. When the annual information reports of the Cabinet of Ministers on the impact of this programme on Latvian society were prepared and published... In recent years, they are not developed, but in one of the last cases, the security authority in this information report wrote the following conclusions: “The tendency remains that temporary residence permits mainly require persons from the Russian Federation who are not motivated to learn Latvian, and thus the model of the two-member state continues to strengthen in Latvia. This situation is at odds with one of the priorities set out in the National Security Concept: preventing the threat to the unity of civil society." So, as we see and hear, the risks are quite many, the risks are different, while the benefits are increasingly decreasing and there is no financial benefit in certain sectors, particularly in this area, on which this proposal is precisely about. I therefore call for this programme to be terminated, at least in this section, by voting in favour, in order not to cause further damage to the Latvian economy and no additional risks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U197	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U198	Now, countries around the world are fighting for investment, fighting for human resources, trying to create a wide range of attraction programmes to attract, in some way, economic assets, susceptible, knowledgeable people, those who are able to add value, so those who have the money to work in a particular country's economy. I understand that we have a new economic paradigm, we will try to go a different way, like North Korea does, as Iran does - that we will follow some very specific, narrow ideological settings that our country should develop. All this is, of course, beautiful, but you will then tell us what alternatives will be, how do you think of attracting investment here, how do you think of attracting this human resource here, because that is what we really need to think about. These are the humiliating problems that you, the National Union, should now also be dealing with as economic actors. Here I would like to hear not just clear, comprehensive demagogic phrases or the confusion of facts, as you did in the previous debate, when I rightly pointed out to you that, first of all, you were the ones who drew this programme, so that it has a small return at the moment. In other words, from the beginning you are imagining the conditions under which this programme has a relatively low return, little meaning (there is no use of this potential that we could use safely and with a positive effect for all the people of Latvia), and then you are proposing that because there is no point in it, it should be made hard. It was just as it was in the debate on these support payments for Latvia's young families. Initially, this support programme... income from this programme, an authorisation programme, came to finance these new family support programmes, housing programmes for new families. And after you ruined it, then really, really! - I had to look for other sources. And now you are... in principle, with your own debate, you have shown yourself what you have done, because the result is that, instead of being able to finance it from this foreign money, we are now forced to spend other resources. The resources we have been able to invest elsewhere in the development of the country are now being forced to spend to cover this hole that you have created - this funding hole that you have created by creating these prohibitions and restrictions on the possibilities of temporary stay programmes. So that I would ask you when you are debating to do what I try to do at all times - I am talking with the correct facts, I am talking about what is. If you're going to do such a level of profanity - with general slogans and demagogy - then it won't go through you. And then we can really have a rather long debate here because it is right... There will be very many who will point you to this demagogy and this unfoundedness of yours, because in reality you are already speaking as enemies of the Latvian people, not as defenders of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U199	I closed the debate. Mr. Rancan, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U200	Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission. The proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U201	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal put forward by the Group for Homeland and Freedom/LNNK! Please vote mode! For - 23, for - 50, for - 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U202	5. - That's Mr Dombrava's proposal. It provides for a penalty for the foreigner in the event of an offence committed by the foreigner and unable to pay the penalty itself. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U203	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U204	Honourable Members of the Saeima! So, as has already been said, this proposal provides for a specific responsibility for companies that invite foreign nationals to work or study in Latvia, but whose invited persons violate the norms of the Immigration Law, for example, they commit criminal offences, such as travelling to other countries, for example, they violate the Labour Law, and so on, and so on. The idea here is to create a mechanism that is not about the first case of such an infringement, but only if there is a mass act... And I will remind you that there have been higher education institutions in Latvia, for example, for which the licence has been revoked due to the fact that there has actually been a fictitious educational process through these educational institutions. I would also like to point out that this problem is really broad and is being faced by a large number of Western countries and is also taking appropriate action in the context of the imposition of fines on various educational institutions and businesses, which are measured not in the value of one million euro, but even in many tens of millions of euros - in relation to visa trade, effective legalisation of visas through educational institutions or through businesses. I would also like to point out that Latvia is also not immune to these problems. For us, the Embassy in India a few years ago reported on this serious problem that there are a whole range of persons who counterfeit their educational documents, are fictitiously carrying out these selection tests, where all the answers have already been presented in advance, and in this way are also trying to enter the European Union through Latvia as a transit country. I sincerely call on you to vote in favour of this proposal. In future, universities would have responsibilities in relation to invited foreign students and foreign workers, as well as companies. If several invited students or employees were found to be in breach of the law, companies or universities would receive fines of up to one million euros and the withdrawal of the licence would be followed in order to prevent further violations. Such fines would, of course, only be imposed in situations where targeted and massive trade in European Union visas is found. I would like to point out in particular that the actual revenues for the company from the legalisation of a few hundred foreign nationals over a period of one year may well exceed a million euros; this is a very profitable business if someone acts in bad faith. But at the moment, unfortunately, our laws do not provide for adequate penalties for such... actually economic crimes. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U205	I closed the debate. Mr. Rancan, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U206	There is nothing to add on behalf of the Commission. The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U207	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Mr Dombrava's proposal! Please vote mode! For -11, for -70, for -3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U208	And the last one is 6. - That's Mr Dombrava's proposal. This concerns transitional provisions concerning the entry into force of certain points on 1 July this year. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U209	Members have requested a vote. The debate has not been applied for. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Mr Dombrava's proposal! Please vote mode! For - 10, for - 71, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U210	Thank you, colleagues. Consequently, all proposals in this draft law have been examined. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U211	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Immigration". Please vote mode! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U212	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 14 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2269-U213	No further proposals for time limits have been received. So the deadline for the third reading of the draft law is 14 June this year. Dear colleagues, The Saeima Bureau has received a request from Members Latkovska, Benhena-Beken, Kalniņa, Asheraden and Chakša to declare a break in the extraordinary session of the Saeima on 27 May this year from 19.00 to 9 a.m. on 10 June this year. Does anyone want to talk about it or about it? No one wants to talk about or about. We must vote for this. Let us therefore vote for a break until June 10, so tomorrow, at 9.00! Please vote mode! For - 75, for - 3, for - 1. So we have voted in favour of the adjournment at this sitting. Only registration of participants. It's been a success. Colleagues, so we are closing the agenda tonight. Interruption until 9 a.m. on June 10 Good evening! ( Interruption)
