ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U1	Dear colleagues, The agenda for the third remote emergency session of the Saeima was launched on 16 June 2021. On the agenda - consideration of Members' requests. Members Kaspars Ģirgens, Ieva Krapāne, Ralfs Nemiro, Maris Možvillo, Ēriks Pucens, Ramona Petraviča, Lubova Švecova, Evija Papule, Jūlija Stepanenko and Karina Sprūde have submitted a request to the Minister for Health Daniel Pavļuts “On increasing funding for the treatment of rare diseases patients”. The word for motivation to the Member Kaspars Girgen. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U2	Hello, dear colleagues! Rare diseases need to be looked at both in the context of health and social care, as they significantly change the quality of life of patients, in most cases leading to severe and chronic health problems. The first symptoms of illness may occur at any stage of human life - from birth to old age. Some diseases are not life-threatening, some symptoms can be prevented by medication, but most of them cannot be cured, but appropriate treatment and medical care can improve the patient’s condition. Although the incidence of illness is rare, it is estimated that approximately 140 thousand people in Latvia are affected by a rare disease at one stage of their life. At the end of 2019 the Latvian Register of Rare Diseases included 4932 people diagnosed with 876 different rare diseases. During 2020 alone, the number of patients registered doubled, and at the beginning of 2021 11167, patients were registered in Latvia. It is important to find an opportunity to extend survival and to improve quality of life in patients with rare diseases. Currently, 7 million of the necessary EUR 37 million are allocated to the state budget, and only 4.4 million are spent. We need a rare disease... the design of a plan which has not yet been developed for 2021. The availability of innovative medicines on the Latvian market should also be promoted. At present, it is important to tell each patient when this medicine is available. Given the importance of this issue in the field of public health, Members of the Saeima ask the Minister for Health to explain whether additional funding is provided for the diagnosis and treatment of rare diseases in the State budget 2021; what additional measures are foreseen in the future plan for rare diseases in 2021-2024; whether and to what extent additional funding is planned for the diagnosis of rare diseases, the establishment of a register of rare diseases, the definition and arrangement of the patient’s path, screening, prevention and rehabilitation, the introduction and remuneration of additional medical personnel; and whether or not it is intended to remedy the shortcomings related to the list of medicinal products to be compensated, including innovative medicines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U3	Thank you for your motivation. Your request shall be submitted to the Minister. The section on the agenda is entitled ‘Conclusion of the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, of trust or distrust’. The draft decision ‘On the appointment of Aldas Ozola as Chairman of the Board of the Public Service Regulatory Commission’. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U4	The President of the sitting. According to the fourth part of Section 7 of the Law on Public Service Regulators, the Chairs of the Public Service Regulatory Commission, which is also the Chairman of the Board, and four members shall be appointed by the Saeima on a proposal from the Cabinet of Ministers. The Cabinet of Ministers selected the candidates for the post by means of an open competition, by appointing its President for seven years, two members of the Council for six years and two members of the Council for five years in order to ensure an appropriate rotation of the Board for its future work. In its meeting, the Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy considered the nominations submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, giving Members the opportunity to ask questions to candidates as well as to question the organizers of the competition about the progress of the competition. The selection of candidates was carried out by the Director of the State Chancellery, the ministers of the participating ministries, such as the Minister of Economics, Finance, Transport (wherein the State Secretary was appointed) and the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, or their delegated representatives, as well as the representatives of the Employers' Confederation of Latvia and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Latvia participated with advisory rights. After hearing the parties concerned, the panel decided to support these five draft decisions of the Saeima, which are on the agenda of this sitting. Therefore, the first of the draft decisions submitted is currently under consideration, ‘On the appointment of Aldas Ozola as chairman of the Board of the Public Service Regulatory Commission’. for a period of seven years. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U5	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the appointment of Aldas Ozola as Chairman of the Board of the Public Service Regulatory Commission! Please, let's vote! For - 61, for - 1, for - 1. Decision adopted. The draft decision ‘On the appointment of Intara Birzins as a member of the Board of the Public Service Regulatory Commission’. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U6	On the basis of the above, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy also prepared this draft decision – “On the appointment of Intara Birzina as a member of the Board of the Public Service Regulatory Commission”... for six years. Request to support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U7	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the appointment of Intara Birzins as a member of the Board of the Public Service Regulatory Commission”! Please, let's vote! No, 59, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The draft decision ‘On the appointment of Rota Šnuka as a member of the Board of the Public Service Regulatory Commission’. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U8	On behalf of the Commission, I also ask you to support this draft decision prepared by our committee - 'On the appointment of Rota Šņuka as a member of the Board of the Public Service Regulatory Commission'... for six years.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U9	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the appointment of Rota Šņuka as a member of the Board of the Public Service Regulatory Commission! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The draft decision ‘On the appointment of Imants Mantiņš as a member of the Board of the Public Service Regulatory Commission’. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy - Krišjānis Feldmans. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U10	And here is also the draft decision on the appointment of Imants Mantiņš as a member of the Board of the Public Service Regulatory Commission.... for five years. Request to support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U11	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the appointment of Imants Mantiņš as a member of the Board of the Public Service Regulatory Commission! Please, let's vote! No, 57, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The draft decision ‘On the appointment of Anna Upena as a member of the Board of the Public Service Regulatory Commission’. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U12	And the last of today's draft decision - "On the appointment of Anna Upena as a member of the Board of the Public Service Regulatory Commission"... for five years. Please support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U13	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the appointment of Anna Upena as a member of the Board of the Public Service Regulatory Commission! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision on the appointment of the Saeima Member, Ms Micherevska, to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the appointment of the Saeima Member, Mr Micherevska, to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit! Please, let's vote! No, 73, against and refrains. Decision adopted. On the agenda, under the heading ‘Transfer and first reading of draft laws to commissions’. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs “Amendments to the Law on the Status of a Member of the National Resistance Movement” be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. We are starting to examine the draft law at first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Mr Andrejs Judine, Member. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U14	Hello, colleagues! On 25 March of this year, the President of Latvia has drawn attention to the shortcomings in the legal framework in the field of rehabilitation of persons who are illegally repressed, status of a politically repressed person and status of a member of the national resistance movement. The President of Latvia has indicated that the laws and regulations of the respective field, although generally addressing issues of restoration of historical justice and ensuring universal justice, do not provide in certain cases an opportunity for the right-makers to find a fair solution to an individual situation, which the legislator has not explicitly provided for in the law. In order to implement the issue of ensuring individual justice in atypical cases, on the basis of the decision of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs of 14 April, a working group was set up. And the working group drafted a draft law. Talking about this bill. It provides for a political decision to decide on granting the status of a member of the national resistance movement to such Latvian citizens whose activities comply with the objectives of the law, but formally do not meet the strict criteria established by the law. In these cases, the Saeima Commission will be able to assess the particular circumstances of the case and decide on a particular person. The issue has been subject to a comprehensive assessment. We really have that task force... five meetings were held, and several discussions were also held within the Commission. In the light of these facts and taking into account that individual justice must be restored as soon as possible... We understand that the people we are talking about are no longer young people and it is important that decisions are taken as soon as possible. In view of these circumstances, the Commission calls for the adoption of the draft law as a matter of urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U15	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the law on the status of a member of the national resistance movement”! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 63, against and refrains. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U16	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U17	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the law on the status of a member of the national resistance movement” at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, 66, against and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U18	Colleagues, in view of the support of the draft law that we have just seen, are asking on behalf of the Commission to support the draft law at second reading as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U19	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the law on the status of a member of the national resistance movement” in the second, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 64, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - under the heading ‘Handling draft laws’. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U20	Good evening, honourable Speaker of the Saeima and honourable colleagues! The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission examined today morning, at 8.00, the draft law “Amendments to Covid-19’s law on the management of the spread of infection” (No. 1093/Lp13) before second reading. Ten proposals were received for the second reading. 1. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal. Designed to free the population from real estate... payments in 2021. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U21	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U22	Dear colleagues, The rapporteur was not quite precise, but we are probably used to it. My proposal relates to the situation that, this year, this year of crisis, the legislator has allowed the municipalities to set different payment deadlines than previously foreseen. By carrying out a small study of all municipalities, we have found that only a small part of municipalities have carried over this payment deadline to the maximum of the last time, that is, in December. A large part has left June 15, some have moved to November, but a very small part. As a result, only a small number of municipalities have responded to such a call, also on the part of the legislator, and also on the part of members of the opposition. There are municipalities that have responded that it makes no sense to postpone this deadline, because the legislator has supported the proposal that late payment interest on late payment of real estate tax for this year is not collected at all, unless this payment is made before the end of the year, until the last day. So far it's clear. But you also certainly noticed (who are the Rigans)... you have also received a threat letter for a few days... some time ago, last week, if I remember correctly, from the Riga City Council that the term of payment of real estate tax is approaching and that interest will be calculated. And when we raised this issue very loudly and protested that such misleading citizens should not be, then, of course, we received another letter that, behold... these penalties, these threats, were removed out. However, in view of such suspicious behaviour by the municipality, such an activity, we want to ensure that those people who have not expected their municipality to transfer real estate tax until the end of the year and are currently taking advantage of the opportunity without being punished simply to postpone payment of real estate tax until the end of the year... so that they are not subject to sanctions by the relevant local government in an immeasurable way, for example, so that local authorities do not figure out that those people who have paid property tax by the end of the year do not qualify, for example, for one of the categories of low-income, poor or large families, or declared, simply because they have exercised this opportunity and have been protected from this percentage of punishment. Against this background, I also tabled this proposal and I call for its support. On the side of the Latvian Municipal Union was also a very suspicious activity during the commission, not an explanation and assurance that in no way will this right be abused next year, but a completely different song: we are not in the Middle Ages, we cannot... we are not in the Middle Ages, we cannot stick to this relief for life, even though it will have to be distinguished from it... I call on my fellow Members to support such a proposal in order to avoid disagreements in order to avoid any problems in relations between municipalities and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U23	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U24	On behalf of the Commission, I can remind you that the application and collection of real estate tax is an autonomous function of the municipality. And even before the Covid crisis, it is possible to make an application to get to this real... tax reductions. There is therefore no problem there. The question is why it was not explained. The Legal Bureau informed us that proposal 1 is also not legally correct, as no more detailed details are provided. The Commission was therefore not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U25	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The proposal by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U26	2. - the proposal from Members Erika Pucen, Ramona Petraviča and Ralph Nemir. It is, in essence, an extension offer in relation to the support of the term of office and the income and social... tax support... deferment of payment... By December 2021. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U27	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U28	Good evening, honourable leader of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, This proposal provides for an extension of the term of the retirement benefit until the end of this year, as it is approaching 30 June, the date until which the various support instruments for entrepreneurs as well as the allowances for employees are in force. These benefits were introduced as a result of a pandemic to help overcome those in difficulty... entrepreneurs to overcome the situation and help employees as well. At the moment, the pandemic has not yet ended, and the Covid-19 positive people are still being identified every day, but as of 30 June, no aid will be available. But restrictions still exist, and there are a number of sectors where it is impossible to return to previous life, rhythm, to work with those turnovers as they were before. It is possible that the Ministry of Economics has not noticed this, but I will remind you that there are sectors such as catering, for example, which have different limitations and cannot work in full, as they could have done before the pandemic. It's like... The number of gyms for which it is currently possible to open their doors only for vaccinated persons and the number of visits will be very small. If we see about 20 percent having completed the complete vaccination course... and, divided by five and still considering that a large part of those who vaccinate are seniors and people with chronic diseases, then these... Sports halls can also not work in the mode as it was before. The same applies to the beauty industry, where the defined square metres per customer must also be respected. So people, employees, cannot all get back to work and they need clarity about how they will live today, how they will live tomorrow, how they feed their families, how they will make public payments. If a country has once imposed such restrictions on people who cannot work, they are denied the opportunity to make a living, then there must be a compensatory mechanism, and this mechanism must be in place until all restrictions are lifted, not only for any privileged groups, by dividing people into boxes - vaccinated, unvaccinated... until we are all not the same again and are not able to work for everyone, all receive services. Until then, all benefits must also be provided. I would add that benefits such as sickness benefit, which is also all of them... Accordingly, they are limited to 30 June. Therefore, I would like to support this proposal, at least by giving people the opportunity to receive a severance grant for the time when the government prevents them from working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U29	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U30	Good evening, everybody! In my opinion, the substance of this proposal, and also the reasoning behind it, was very logical and well-founded. I would very much like to hear those who are going to reject this proposal because I see that this proposal has been rejected by the Commission... I would like to hear the reasons why this proposal has been rejected because, in substance, if we were to accept that it is justified to provide assistance in this crisis situation where these restrictions exist... Thus, if, on the one hand, the power imposes restrictions on the other, it gives solutions, compensation, it provides compensation for its decisions. Now we have the original situation where, in theory, the emergency situation is over, but restrictions are left. I also understand that the coalition that is leading the same smart and inventive solution now also offers benefits - that we will in theory end the benefits, but leave the limits. I really call on you to get... and for the protocol... The Saeima in the debate... so that it stays... what is the reasoning then, what is the reason why this proposal is rejected. I would also like to hear how, then, in this situation, you can really live and be to those people who will be subject to these restrictions, because, as we do when dealing with demand... As one of these situations that have developed, that people... As if we are talking about the fact that there is no compulsory vaccination, but in fact, if a person is subject to a mandatory requirement that he... if he wants to provide himself with a living with his work, to which he may have dedicated the whole of his life that he has learned, worked and where he has invested to have this work and to have this base of his market, or clients - if we are talking about beauty specialists - then now, with one such government decision, it is destroyed and, in parallel, says that, you know, after 30 June we will not even compensate you for it. If we talk about readability, about the rule of law in this country, then tell me, what about the rule of law and the justification for such a decision. Is it really just because this coalition of government has subjugated all its positions, its spheres of influence, that they once again have been put on the rule of law and democratic principles, on Latvia as a legal and democratic state and, as we see, on a certain part of society, on its fate. I call for the debate... So I call again... I still don't see anyone applying... I call on those who are willing to reject this proposal to justify and explain... one - to justify why you reject it and the other - to explain how these people will live after 30 June when this aid will no longer be available, but the restrictions will remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U31	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U32	Dear colleagues, Mr. Zarins, they never apply, they sleep, as we saw today. If we are talking about the proposal, I also call for support for Mrs Petravič's proposal. She, as former Minister for Welfare, is certainly very well aware of the problems which the Ministry of Welfare has also had to deal with in this time of crisis. So a little outline of this story, in which I understand most of you have not studied. The Latvian Health and Fitness Association has carried out a study... I surveyed my regular clients and found out that only 40 percent of their regular clients have been able to vaccinate, 20 percent are considering not to vaccinate. Therefore, if you have already decided to climb on this slippery path of segregation of people, then perhaps you should have had a little, a little bit of wisdom and an understanding of the fact that, for your own sake, the vaccination process and the widespread vaccination of all people have been delayed. As we know, probably most of the visitors to sports clubs... If we once started talking about sports clubs... are healthy people, so they are probably mostly without chronic pests, although of course there are different people who go to sports clubs, but now the average portrait is this. So they had no chance of vaccination, even if they wanted to. If all this public vaccination was launched in May, then I think you could count and understand that, even if everyone wanted to do so, they would simply not have done it. The reasons are different. A man may... There may be certain contraindications at a given time against this vaccination, it may be that a person has a loss of capacity after the first pot and very much reflection on what to do further... and so on, and it's still... Considering that this vaccine is not as common and simple as you should try to “feed”. So that's the approach that now... in May we open these centres and count on everyone having vaccinated, and now we force everyone to get vaccinated by these methods, without paying the money for the idle if you have to understand the businessmen... This approach is, of course, very, very slippery, and you know very well that it will lead to great problems both in relation to the law and in relation to your... relations with voters... and so on. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported and for this deadline to be extended, as colleagues have already proposed, and of course we will continue to talk about other proposals on the sectors concerned. Among other things - sports clubs have not paid for these support measures... not paid for April. So people are still waiting for the cost of these support measures for April, for May. And now they are forced to open for 40 percent - well if for 40 percent - unless all their employees have been vaccinated. This is insane and must definitely be abolished. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U33	Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U34	Welcome again, dear colleagues! Dear President, I also strongly support this specific proposal for an extension of the deadline, and I am looking at it even further. With effect from 30 June, the payment of severance pay shall be terminated. So on July 1st, on July 1st! - We're starting to... in fact increases the overall tax burden on a very, very large proportion of Latvian workers, in this case also on the state's social mandatory contributions, and we keep for one part of the people restrictions - we maintain restrictions on dealing with... work, provide their services. We do not want to extend the deadline for our retirement benefits, but with the next day we increase the overall tax burden, and then we are surprised that letters are written to us, e-mails, a call from the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Employers' Confederation of Latvia, and even in the newspapers you make announcements and the call “Dear Members and Members!” , but we don't pretend to hear them. Colleagues, I really call on you to think about our small workers, our small, medium-sized businessman, who receive these cut-off benefits, which are working in the private sector. They're doing everything they can to support their families, pay bills... Utilities and similar. Colleagues, I unequivocally call for this deadline to be extended, because it is only humane, at least until all restrictions have been brought to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U35	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U36	So once again, I appeal to my coalition colleagues, I appeal to all those who are ready today to reject this proposal... apply for a debate and show that you have any sense of mind and any responsibility for your decisions... that is why this proposal is rejected, because the real situation is - and we know it well - limited... and these restrictions will not be lifted in the coming weeks. It is therefore necessary to provide for that compensation mechanism. So explain: one - why don't you do it, one - how can you survive these people to whom you will apply restrictions, but you will not leave the possibility of survival? And so you will have an answer. If someone's there... As Mr. Karins, his government and the ruling coalition... they broke their heads, why the public doesn't go to vaccination, why don't listen to what the government says they don't trust, then, here's exactly for you... A reliable example is through such decisions, by such actions, you also achieve that the people do not believe you that the people do not follow what you are offering it what you are telling it. You are the biggest problem of this country and the biggest problem of why it is so difficult for our country to get out of this communion crisis and to implement the necessary solutions. I call for a debate and for my statements to be rebutted. I see that... Mrs Petraviča, as you once have been given the opportunity, you have two minutes to get in, get in the shower and show the truth. Otherwise, I will remind you of this all the time. And I'll be right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U37	The name to Member Ramona Petraviča for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U38	Mr. Tawar has already been very precise. As of 1 July, there will therefore be a minimum object of social contributions. And then imagine the situation: those employees who are currently receiving a retirement allowance, which will end on 30 June... On July 1 and July 1, they have to start working, and the employer has to give them whatever load they take... whether he really needs their employees right now, or he might be just as well gone, because - let's get some beauty where it's understandable. Hairdressers can not work for everyone - as far as they have a table - because there are restrictions on customers... by square. So what do others do? They will come to work some part-time a few hours a day, and the employer will have to pay tax on this as a minimum wage of about €170. Who will make up for these losses? Do you expect them to go to the State Employment Agency and pay unemployment benefits when they are released? The employer, however, hopes that at one point all restrictions will be lifted and all customers will be able to be served, and all employees will be able to work... regardless of whether he has been vaccinated or not, and perhaps this employee is also unable for some reason to vaccinate, for example, a woman who is pregnant for a child - she chooses not to vaccinate at the moment, but she can still work. Will you deny her a living? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U39	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, please explain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U40	Thank you very much for the debate. On behalf of the Commission, I just wanted to remind you that the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U41	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The proposal by Members Erik Pucen, Ramon Petravič and Ralph Nemir! Please, let's vote! For - 29, for - 50, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U42	3. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It provides for the introduction of a planning mechanism into the law in order to provide clear fiscal discipline and budgetary principles when exiting the crisis. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U43	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U44	I will also call for this proposal to be supported. And, as I understand, since it has been supported by the Commission, it is likely that it will be supported. I would like to point out that, if we are in the debate here, colleagues, we are asking for the reasoning of the committee responsible why a proposal was rejected, that would be the rapporteur's duty - this argument is also an explanation for us. All the more so, if the chair of the sitting has also indicated it. In my opinion, this is absolutely unacceptable. Well, what we're even here... I understand that a number of Members are simply sitting here. We've already seen that even the sleep... is asleep during the sitting and does not understand at all what is happening. I understand, there's blind buttons here... and it is currently a mock-up of democracy and the rule of law in Latvia, which is happening with such a parliamentary term, as is currently the case and how works are organised. But now at least... If this is really the case here, in the debate, specifically the request has been made, then the rapporteur must give an explanation of why... And that would be his duty... specific reasons why a particular proposal has been rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U45	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U46	So if proposal 3 is supported, then let's go to proposal 4. 4. - The proposal of a Member of the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, Mr. Janis Bordan. In essence, it refers to the right of 20 per cent of the shareholders to determine on their own initiative the type of shareholder meeting, i.e. to choose remotely, in person or otherwise. In the Commission...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U47	We are still on proposal 3. The proposal is therefore supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U48	Just as I said, yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U49	Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 67, for - 1, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U50	So now 3 is definitely supported, then I repeat the substance of the fourth proposal, which has been received from the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns, about the possibility of the board of the capital company at its own initiative or at the request of its members (shareholders), which together represent at least 20 per cent of the share capital of the capital company... have the right to provide that the meeting of the members (shareholders) shall be held only electronically and that the members (shareholders) shall participate and vote by electronic means. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U51	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U52	The next five. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal. It shall provide for the payment of support to a person who, during the period referred to in Article 62 of this Law, is entitled to child care allowance for a child under one year of age, family state allowance or allowance for a family state allowance for a child with disabilities under the Law on State Social Benefits or who, due to the birth of a child, is entitled to maternity allowance and the child is born until the end of the emergency situation, as well as to a person for a dependent adult who is under 24 years of age, if he or she acquires general vocational or higher education. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U53	The rapporteur is also asked to give a reason why there is no one. Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U54	Thank you very much to the chair of the sitting for his instruction. We really look forward to the quality of the Saeima's work. My proposal comes back to the discussion that broke when we met the new Minister for Welfare, because I know that Mrs Petraviča would certainly have dealt with this issue to the end and we would certainly have secured the support of this proposal together. This is about 24 years of age, students under 24 years of age who are dependent on the family... or one of the parents. Why 24 years old? Because, under the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child, this age is the threshold age for a situation where a country still considers a family to be a large-scale family. So if a person, a so-called child who is no longer a child... but if an adult child is in higher education until the age of 24, his parents are also entitled to all benefits due to large families. So the country still believes that this is a large family of children, that this is also a child. Thus, from this logic, and also from the point of view of the fact that we, together with our colleagues - Mrs Švekova and Mrs Ločmel - have fought a great deal for the right of students to receive this support, either for up to 20 years, which... all students... because there are currently limited possibilities... or up to 24 years of age. In view of this very long discussion and this resistance, and the signals we received from the coalition about the possibility of foreseeing such support, we are nevertheless calling for this debate to continue and to make such support payable. This is already the next proposal. If it is not put to the vote, then the next proposal, which follows, lays down the arrangements under which this aid is to be paid. We, I think, give a pretty big deal of time to 31. ... from 31 July we could set the cost order. Hence, everything can be made possible if it is very desirable. That is a political decision. Thank you, colleagues. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U55	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U56	Thank you. Good evening, colleagues! I would like to draw my fellow Members' attention to the fact that we debated yesterday the introduction of mandatory social contributions, which will now also have to be paid to those employers who may also have part-time labour... salaries or recruits students. Given that students were able to learn and, in part, with their work, to compensate for employment, say, the costs of maintaining by studying and purchasing study materials and some private consumption, then unfortunately now... most likely, from 1 July, mandatory social payments will discourage the same employer from accepting part of the workload of the student, and the student will not have any other option than in essence... either leave training or leave work completely, as it is likely that it will be forced by the employer. The essence of the proposal is to allow some time to go directly to learners and families with children of this age... relief, and this relief, this allowance, would ensure social stability. Another thing that did not really surprise me and that would be worth thinking of the honourable Members and honourable Members present - this is the increase in the proportion of the shadow economy over the last year. The increase in the share of the shadow economy is certainly the result of the work of the Saeima, the work of members of the Saeima, and also the work of the public administration, whose mechanisms and tools at the time of the Covid-19 infection spread have demonstrated their insufficient effectiveness and quality. And in fact, the government and the Cabinet of Ministers showed under-quality work. So I... This is just the first call - the increase in the share of the shadow economy in the previous period. The share of the shadow economy is likely to increase with the introduction of mandatory social contributions. That's why I'm the majority, too... and I congratulate the coalition Members on this, but when speaking about this proposal, I am asking for this support and social balance, respectively, for those students who continue to study and who are in a difficult situation due to restrictions and... opportunities to work well and earn a living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U57	The name of Member Ramona Petraviča. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U58	Colleagues, I would like to remind you - when we decided to grant one-off support of EUR 500 - that was intended for all those who receive family state benefits and the family state benefit is paid up to the age of 15 or - if the child continues to receive secondary or vocational education - up to the age of 20. Even then, it was clear that students who were not yet 20 years old fell out of this group of beneficiaries... who is studying... and, of course, all others above the age of 20. The Ministry of Welfare had also drafted a proposal on the payment of benefits to students under the age of 24, identifying the impact and consequences of all groups that would need assistance and support in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic crisis. Students are in fact a hostage, because the pandemic is very limited... in principle, the possibility to work has been denied. Many can study only because they can work and provide a living for themselves because, unfortunately, families are not able to provide them with the support and assistance they need. Study fees have to be paid in full, despite the fact that for a whole year training has already taken place in a remote mode, and I think there too would need some kind of compensation, because it's not exactly the same... and the level of knowledge acquired is certainly not quite the same... when the training is carried out on-the-spot or remotely. Similarly, students from the regions had rented either a service hotel or an apartment. These payments, too, have to be made and nothing has been abolished, and those who had rented an apartment did not know at what point they would be able to learn again in person... Nobody knew it... Accordingly, the payments continued to this day. We still have... our country needs smart and educated people. We are somehow in contact with those people who are our future, who will be the bright heads of our country, the builders of our future. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U59	The name of Member Regina Lochmele. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U60	Hello! The ruling coalition today once again pretends that they are both blind, deaf and in general amnesty. I would remind you that, in addition to the initiatives of the opposition Members, paying this allowance to students was also a nation-supported initiative on the ManaBalss.lv platform. 11 thousand people voted in favour of paying this allowance to students. And you know what happened next? Yes, it was a rare case where you, as Members, supported the examination of this initiative by the Commission. But which commission was sent? Of course, in front of Mr Bondara, where it "slaps" any initiative that is outside of Unity... strategies of the Minister of Finance. Its strategy is already known - to destroy small business, but as the former Minister of Education and Science said today, it turns out that higher education in Latvia will soon be such a privilege... For one thing. The fewer people with higher education, because those with higher education will be... Greater. We go to the fact that we will only live well in elites and some of the excellence that have been identified in the lobby. No, you understand, - MyBals.lv initiatives show what people care about, what they think about and what they support. Indeed, you think that by supporting the “mother” initiative of the student Yelen Mirnay... I will also remind you that the number of these students and these families in relation to the number of people who voted in relation to ManaBalss.lv is much less. This means that society is in favour of this idea, because this idea, which has been expressed once again in this proposal, is really logical and necessary. It is not even necessary for pensioners, for whom once again you will forget, but for students, for young people - for our future. Today, Ms Mirnaja informed me that the initiative had to be examined once again by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Then she was told that, behold, the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima - then! I say, but when to look at? She says they didn't say anything. It's clear to us that if not today, then never... Sometime in the autumn, when there will be a completely different agenda for the ruling coalition and again there will be an opportunity to pretend to be blind, deaf and amnesty people who will remember nothing in the autumn... nothing, ladies and gentlemen, will remind us of both today's vote, this initiative and students, but now I ask you to think and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U61	The name to Member Ramona Petraviča for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U62	I would like to explain why this proposal was rejected if it is not explained here on the part of the rapporteur. So that's because the National Social Security Agency cannot administer it because they can only pay benefits to those who are connected to a particular service, such as a public family allowance... that they cannot identify the others. Then I would like to say that this is not the case. We have already found ways in the Ministry of Welfare to identify these students. This was the case when it was decided to pay benefits to children in care centres. They are also not attached to any form of benefit, but a solution was found - through applications, to identify these children so that they could be paid the benefit. Students also had one solution - the student can write an application himself, and either submit it to the National Social Insurance Agency, or all of it can be coordinated through the university. So, well, that's definitely... This is definitely not the reason why it cannot be done. If you do not want to do so, there will certainly be at least 50 reasons why this cannot be done. But this, I know very safely, can both administer and also identify students, their entire names and surnames so that they can get this benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U63	The name of Member Regina Lochmele for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U64	I will continue with Mrs Petraviča's point that when the government wants to achieve something, it achieves - and very, very quickly, and all its reservations about not being able to administer the cost of this allowance, it is an absolute fool. On how quickly the government is able to respond to any demand from the edge, from its own, you will be able to make sure today... or tomorrow, when we will continue this sitting, because we will have amendments to the Law on Personal Documents, urgently... will be declared urgent. And what will these amendments be about? On the fact that, here, the country of Latvia will be ready to issue a completely new document to foreigners. There'll be a foreigner's license. And the reason for this is that here's a group of foreigners... or groups... it is difficult to communicate with Latvia in the digital environment. To facilitate this communication and handling... That's right. In various areas (there was culture, history, including real estate, entrepreneurship, taxation) will be a special document. And at this moment there are amendments to the law, at this moment there is recognition of urgency, and, believe me, it will be adopted tomorrow. And you're saying that you can't organise a grant, a crisis benefit, a payout for students in the country. Shame! Just shame! Vote, please, “for”!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-16-PT13-2280-U65	Dear colleagues, The Saeima Presidium has received an application from Member Juris Pūce, Mārtiņš Šteins, Inese Voika, Mārtiņš Bondara and Viesturs Liepkalna to declare a break at the Saeima's third remote emergency sitting on 16 June at 19.00 and to continue to review the third remote emergency sitting on 16 June this year 20 minutes after the Saeima's first remote emergency sitting on 17 June this year. Please call me! Please, we will vote in favour of the application by Members of the Pūce, Stein, Voika, Bondar and Liepkalna regarding the interruption of the sitting until the end of the first remote emergency sitting on 17 June! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 67, no one for - 11, no one for - 11. Members' submissions have been supported. We declare the sitting adjournment. We will continue the debate tomorrow. Only registration of the presence of Members. It's over. Interruption of the sitting until the end of the first remote emergency session of 17 June. Good evening! ( Interruption)
