ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! Good morning, Mr. President, Prime Minister, Minister of Foreign Affairs! Let's start the remote emergency sitting on 28 January this year. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for paragraph 6 of the agenda - the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Fishing” - to be excluded from the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima until the subsequent decision of the committee. Please select the “On procedure” section. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Let us start by looking at the amended agenda of the sitting. On the agenda - oath of the Auditor General (a promise). I call on the Auditor General Roland Irke to make an oath or solemn promise.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U2	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Honourable Members! I swear to be loyal to the Republic of Latvia, to comply with its laws and to perform their duties honestly.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U3	Thank you. I'm calling for an oath. Thank the Auditor General Roland Irkley. We wish you a successful job for the benefit of Latvia's country and society. Thank you. On the agenda - Reports by the Prime Minister, Ministers and other officials. Annual report by the Foreign Minister on the work done and planned in the country's foreign policy and the European Union. Name to Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U4	President of Latvia, President-in-Office of the Saeima, President-in-Office of the Saeima, President-in-Office of the Saeima, President-in-Office of the Council, honourable Members and honourable Members, fellow ministers, honours and all those present away! This is the first time in the history of Latvian parliamentaryism, when the annual foreign policy debate in the Saeima takes place remotely. And in a way, it is symbolic that Latvia's international de iure recognition is held on a 100th anniversary festival digitally, at the same time starting with Latvia's diplomacy in the second century. In these days we celebrate the centenary, since January 26, 1921, when Latvia was internationally recognised de iure. At the time, in order to win the independence of the state, the release of Latvia and the recognition of Latvia, rephrased the words of the first Foreign Minister, Zigfrīds Anna Meierovics, there was a need for both weapons and human victims, but the new foreign service had only two weapons: feather and intelligence. And we achieved it - the international recognition of our country de iure! History is the best teacher. The creation and international recognition of the state of Latvia, its occupation and maintenance of the idea of continuity, restoration of independence and reintegration into the international community are only once again strengthening confidence in Latvia's diplomatic mission and the ultimate goal of this century - ensuring the independence and security of our country. The poet Oyars Vāķis has the words: “I have an avile, avile sense that the world I live in can be destroyed much faster than you.” Also today, a hundred years after the international recognition of Latvia's state de iure, the situation in the world is heated. The democratic order, which helped to establish and then restore the state of Latvia, is now threatened by the spread of authoritarianly imperial ideology based on the philosophy of power and influence spheres. Both in Europe and in Asia, like in the 1990s and 1930s, revisionist powers are asserting themselves, while the traditional bases of liberal democracy are escalating towards the trend of isolatingism. The Latvian foreign policy formula is both simple and complex at the same time - to analyse the global international environment, define its interests and then connect them with its capabilities. Experience of Latvia and similar countries shows that in global politics, priorities must be chosen, focused on them, ready to pay for them and defend them. Experience shows that history develops cyclically. It is clear, both at the interwar stage and now, that our independence and freedom are primarily our own responsibility. Therefore, the DNA of Latvia's foreign policy is a procedure based on international law and international organisations. Our main challenge is the revisionist countries, which have always tried to undermine such a order, both politically, ideologically and militaryly. But today’s challenges come when, because of a momentary feeling, some of the society is prepared to give up its basic principles and values. After restoring Latvia's independence, we have completed our political, institutional and legal integration into the Western world. However, much remains to be done by the whole Latvian society to integrate ourselves into the European mindset model, as well as to promote the world's understanding of Latvia as part of Europe. It is not only narrative about our history, it is a story about the way of the future. Many of the rights that we now enjoy and see as self-evident are the result of the long and difficult work of the United Nations. In 1954, one of the greatest UN Secretary - General, Doug Hammarsheld, said: “The United Nations was created, not to bring mankind into heaven, but to deliver it from hell. ” Latvia has experienced occupations and totalitarian regimes, therefore, the UN system as a whole and the country's participation in it are essential for us. As a full member of this global organisation, Latvia has been able to demonstrate clearly to the international community for 30 years that we are a Western, democratic state that respects human rights and at the same time advocates respect for democratic values in the world. Last year we have already debated Latvia's candidacy as a volatile member of the UN Security Council in the 2025 elections. Together with the President of State, Members of the Saeima, diplomats, we have worked on our priorities and the campaign plan. This year and the years to come, this work will continue. Our priorities, as agreed, are the rule of law in international relations, digital policy and climate change. Therefore, the internal power of Latvia – active opinion and participation of society and non-governmental organisations in the state administration and all socio-economic and political processes – is and will play an important role. The fight against the global Covid-19 pandemic and its consequences for the economy, the influx of populism in many parts of the world, the post-Braxite European Union confirms that Latvia's diplomacy will have to continue to play a key role further, and that is, once again, to preserve and strengthen the independence of the country under changing circumstances. The Covid-19 pandemic left a huge and still unreceivable impact on the world in 2020, and it will continue to affect the world this year, both in terms of health, movement of persons, goods and services, and the increasing use of digital solutions in all areas of life. However, the pandemic has not reduced the need to work on issues that existed before the Covid-19 and will continue after the virus is contained. It will continue to be important to counter attempts to degenerate the system based on international law. Traditional threats to national and regional security will still need to be addressed. We will still have to be prepared to respond to new threats, including those that we cannot even predict at the moment. Being free means being vigilant. Latvia is part of a family of like-minded countries, and we can count on our allies and partners to act together and respond jointly to new and old challenges based on common values. Last year, Covid-19, the global crisis of the pandemic has also become a test of the strength of the diplomatic and consular service of Latvia, its ability and skills. The largest national repatriation took place in the history of Latvia – it was primarily granted to Latvian nationals who permanently resided in Latvia and for whom further presence abroad was not possible. I would like to illustrate this process with just a few figures. In the first half of 2020, our consular service served less than 44 thousand calls, reaching as many as 14 thousand calls per day in March. Also in March and April about 10 thousand e-mails were received. I would like to thank all Latvian Foreign Service, diplomats and consular staff who are still able to find effective, creative, innovative and digital solutions in these circumstances to help our Latvian citizens quickly throughout the wider world. Thank you for your work. On behalf of the entire Latvian Foreign Service, I would also like to thank the President of Latvia, the Saeima, especially the Foreign Affairs Commission of the Saeima and the European Commission, as well as colleagues in the government, state and municipal institutions and all non-governmental organisations. Colleagues! At the beginning of this year, we will launch a discussion on Latvia's foreign policy scenarios within the framework of the Euro-Atlantic area until 2030. Taking into account the rapidly changing international environment and the need to systematise risks and possible social and political environment pathways, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with experts, foreign and security policy research centres and academic environment, modelled alternative international policies for the next decade and Latvia's foreign policy actions and directions in response to them. The discussion on the scenarios will be creative and will provide an opportunity to assess a forward-looking general view of optimistic, pessimistic and also moderate trends that are not utopian, maintain a medium or high level of credibility and at the same time may seem uncomfortable to someone. It will also be an opportunity to define and express your concerns and to draw up action patterns. Ladies and gentlemen! It is in Latvia's interest to have a European Union based on the concept of democracy, rule of law and human rights. Only by actively supporting and strengthening such initiatives can we influence common European processes, secure our own interests and thus strengthen ourselves. World polarisation and differences of opinion between the United States, Europe, Russia and China can, however, come with new dilemmas. One thing is certain: Latvia must continue to be that country and it will be that country that strengthens both Europe and transatlantic ties with the US and Canada. Last year, after very difficult negotiations, the European Union's multiannual budget was adopted. Negotiations on this are always difficult, but this time, given the UK withdrawal, the emergence of new priorities as well as the issues of the rule of law, they were special. The result for Latvia is very good - in the next seven years Latvia will receive almost EUR 10.5 billion from the European Union, which is an increase of 39 percent compared to the previous seven-year period. In addition, we will be able to borrow around EUR 2.5 billion on favourable terms. Of these funds, almost EUR 5 billion can be invested directly in economic recovery from the pandemic crisis of the Covid-19. At the same time, the foundation for further growth of Latvia, which will be based on a more climate-friendly economy and digitalisation, will be substantially strengthened. Latvia is increasingly making itself manifest as a country that wants to develop a climate-neutral economy. The European Green Deal adopted last year and its climate objectives mark a new turning point in today's European political thinking. At least 37 per cent of the EU's Recovery Instrument should be devoted to the fight against climate change. What does this mean in practice? The gravels of the European Union Green Deal and the new recovery package will contribute to further reducing dependence on Russian energy sources and promoting sustainable energy policies. It is important that the European Union's investment is targeted and consistent with the long-term development strategy of the country, with a particular focus on regional development and increasing productivity. Education, science and research are definitely areas that are important for Latvia's future. Dear colleagues, Last year, there were a number of shocks in the Eastern Neighbourhood, including violent repression of protests and repression of civil society in Belarus following the falsified results of the elections. We also observed with concern the military escalation in the Nagorno-Karabakh region. In the light of these developments, new long-term cooperation objectives with six partner countries should be considered in the political format of the Eastern Partnership. We believe that the European Union needs to deepen its cooperation with the three associated partners - Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova - who want closer integration with the European Union. European policy towards these partner countries must continue to build on the principles of democracy and the rule of law, support for the progress of reforms and support for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of partner countries. Colleagues! The United Kingdom has withdrawn from the European Union and its relations with it will not be as close as they were so far. As of 1 January, the UK has been subject to other regulations, not only for companies but also for individuals, such as changes in travel, the use of postal items, mobile services and other regulations. For example, starting work and studying in the United Kingdom requires a visa. The agreement reached between the European Union and the United Kingdom on trade relations and social security coordination makes it possible to build a close and comprehensive relationship in the future. Although many practical issues relating to the consequences of the brux are to be dealt with for a long time, it is particularly important to point out that the United Kingdom is, and remains, a reliable partner and ally for Latvia. Our task is to deepen cooperation with the United Kingdom in the Baltic and Nordic region, the transatlantic community and globally. Over the last year, the role of the Three Seas initiative in the Baltic, Adriatic and Black Sea region has increased significantly. In the years of the Cold War, this region was abandoned back in its development, infrastructure and economy were destroyed. The three-sea initiative creates better conditions for regional security and provides additional opportunities to equalise and reduce disparities in the quality of European transport, energy and digital infrastructure. It is particularly important that the new US administration continues to engage in this initiative, as it is essential for the whole region. Since 2018, Latvia has made a significant contribution to the setting up of the investment fund and last year Latvia's investment fund was officially approved. In the future, it is important to ensure that infrastructure projects promoting growth in Latvia and the region in transport, energy and digital infrastructure are approved in negotiations with the Fund. Dear Members and honourable Members, Latvia is responsible member of NATO collective defence system. Warriors from 19 NATO member states are currently deployed on the territory of the Baltic States. This clearly demonstrates the Alliance's commitment to the security of all its Member States. I would particularly like to thank our Canadian friends and allies who continue to carry out NATO's responsibilities in Latvia, which is a very strong signal for deterrence and is a sign of solidarity. This year, Latvia's defence expenditure accounts for 2.3 percent of gross domestic product. As a NATO member, Latvia must continue to invest in its defence, including its capacity as a NATO member to strengthen and develop, both on land, in air and at sea. At the same time, this means expanding expertise and action in the field of cyber security and strategic communication issues, solidarity in participating in international operations, ensuring the internal stability of the country, as well as immunity from external hybrid threats. This year, diplomats will have to work on strengthening the unity of the Alliance policy. In a rapidly changing world, it is an ongoing work. In order for existing defence capabilities to play a role in crisis situations, it is not only political readiness to use them. There must also be a common sense of threats in the Alliance and a shared vision of allies on strategic and tactical actions and priorities for reallocation of resources. In this context, the discussion on NATO 2030, which is the process of ideas for the future, will continue, thus contributing to the development of a new strategic concept for the Alliance. At the same time, the European Union's ability to adapt to the global security challenges will have to be discussed this year. These efforts must not lead to a misconception of the European Union's goal of becoming a military autonomous and duplication of NATO's functions, which would also affect transatlantic unity. We are cautious about making strategic autonomy central to European defence and military cooperation. Strategic autonomy needs to be strengthened in areas and critical sectors where the Covid-19 crisis has highlighted the weaknesses of the European Union, such as much more operational coordination of Member States in crisis situations, protection of industrial capacity and critical infrastructure. The role of the Arctic region and the strategic interest of countries in this is growing internationally. The range of current issues covers both security, climate and ecology, and economic and political issues. The Arctic has also become part of Latvia's foreign policy agenda dialogue with our partners in the Baltic Sea and Arctic region. In view of the growing focus on the region, it is also in Latvia's interest to develop the Arctic sustainably and peacefully, which is based on international cooperation. Therefore, Latvia will prepare an application for the acquisition of observer status in the Arctic Council, which is an influential forum for the exchange of views and international cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen! We are currently following dynamic processes in the societies of the United States, in its politics and also in foreign policy. Apart from changing US administrations, Latvia as a member of the European Union and NATO must continue to work closely with our transatlantic partner, the US. Why is this important? Because like thinking countries, there must be unity and principle on matters relating to our common values and security in its broader sense. Together with the US, both within NATO and at European Union level, it will be necessary to be able to agree transatlantic cooperation against China and Russia. Colleagues! China is a rapidly growing power with high ambitions and ambitious foreign policy. China sees itself as a global power with economic autonomy and a strong interest in strengthening it. The problem is also in China's focus on the rule of law, democratic principles, norms and values. China's area of interest is not only the South China Sea and Hong Kong, but most of the world, including Africa and also Europe. China is already the second largest economy in the world and its economy continues to grow rapidly. If this continues, China will be the largest economy in the world at the end of this decade. With regard to Europe, we see China's strategy, which involves taking over or at least engaging in innovative and strategic companies with a view to gaining control and knowledge to strengthen economic independence and dominance. Europe needs to develop a strategy and autonomous instruments to defend its political and economic interests. One such instrument that has already started operating in practice is the screening mechanism for foreign investment. A cooperation mechanism has been established for the exchange of information on foreign investments and their potential cross-border impact on the security of other Member States and on projects of European Union interest. Excellency! One of the key issues in international relations today is the fight for values and influence in the digital world. In a pandemic situation, false news and hate speech spread faster than the virus itself. In the real world, this poses increasing risks of destabilisation of society and international order, of violence and of war. As disinformation is a long-term threat to democracy and public health, efforts should be made both at national and international level to combat disinformation in a targeted way. It must be a priority for every democratic country's digital policy in this area. For a long time, global platforms did not act to prevent the spread of false news. Unfortunately, this has consequences. An example of this is the intervention of other countries in elections and referendums, or the encouragement of anxiety and hatred in society. Social networks have so far developed as private companies whose main task was to maximise profits. More and more people have used these platforms without the regulation that exists in the traditional media field to develop disinformation, false news, manipulation of society and political processes. At the moment, together with the latest events in the United States, we have come to the second extreme: censoring the content of the debate without any understandable regulation and criteria. It is clear that we need to find a social media regulation that respects responsible freedom of expression, and on these issues we will work at the level of both the European Union and other international organisations. At home, at the level of the European Union and NATO, there must be a mechanism for action, including legislation, to prevent the opportunities created by technology from being exploited to achieve unfair, selfish and even criminal objectives. At the same time, we need to strike a balance between privacy, freedom of expression and responsibility for our words. This is not an easy task, but it is a matter of informing the general public about health and national safety. There is no harm without benefit, as media literacy has increased despite a pandemic. Therefore, both in Latvia and in the European Union as a whole, it is necessary to invest even more in independent, professional and high-quality media. Only such media, information search companies, fact-checkers, researchers and civil society are the solid foundations for a secure and secure information space. Ladies and gentlemen! In the field of external trade and the economy, the year 2020 was also very complex, challenging and unclear. Barriers to trade were everywhere and border controls were restored or strengthened, and export bans were imposed on goods. The pandemic also suddenly highlighted the fragility of global supply chains and our excessive dependence on non-European suppliers in strategic areas. In 2020, the Foreign Service gave priority to supporting entrepreneurs and public authorities in dealing with emergencies, for example in situations where we had to find new suppliers on a border or quickly, especially in health-related sectors. For a moment diplomats became detectives with the task of finding and providing medical equipment, masks, or protective clothing. The main task of the Foreign Service in the economy this year is to help companies recover from the Covid-19 crisis. This means primarily finding new export opportunities for our companies and helping to recover the existing... This will also be ensured by the planned conclusion of free trade agreements between the European Union and many viable trading partners. Australia, New Zealand and the Latin American countries are those that we see as a perspective for our market. However, special attention will be paid this year to strengthening economic ties with the US. With the new administration, we want close cooperation, especially on technology, climate and energy issues. We will continue to oppose protectionism. We need an open, fair and rule-based international trade environment with a modernised World Trade Organisation at its heart. In the context of energy security, our priority is the synchronization of the Baltic electricity networks with continental Europe. This must be done by 2025. Together with similar thinking partners, we are consistent and will continue to oppose the implementation of the Nord Stream 2 project. At the same time, we see that Latvian development cooperation projects implementers - state institutions, civil society organisations and the private sector - are able to demonstrate their contribution to sustainable development to the wider world, for example, by sharing best practices and solutions for the digitisation of government, society and economy created in Latvia. Appropriate funding is, of course, needed to facilitate this. Latvia's figures in this area - development cooperation - are among the smallest Member States of the European Union. And we will work to increase the budget. The long-awaited opening of the Embassy in Australia will be particularly significant and symbolic this year. This will open up opportunities for more active cooperation, including economic cooperation, with Australia and for relations with countries in the Oceania region. Friends! The closest neighbours and allies of Latvia in the European Union and NATO are Estonia and Lithuania, with which we must continue to implement the largest transport infrastructure project since the restoration of independence of the Baltic States - Rail Baltica. This project will significantly improve transport links so that we are also connected to the rest of Europe as soon as possible. Colleagues! Latvia has a direct interest in maintaining good neighbourly relations with the Russian Federation, but it is no less important on which principles these neighbourhood relations are built. We must be able to answer the question: what kind of Russia do we want to see in our neighbours? Because the answer to this question is directly related to Latvian national security interests. I think the answer is clear to us. We want to see a democratic, internally stable Russia which respects human rights and guarantees civil liberties. We want to see Russia that respects international law and the territorial integrity of neighbouring countries. The interests of Latvia's national security are also related to Russia, which does not pursue aggressive foreign policy or threaten the sovereignty of neighbouring countries in any way. Unfortunately, last year there has been an increased effort by the governing communities of the Russian Federation to use historical issues to meet domestic and foreign policy challenges and to achieve objectives. Russia is engaged in its own history and internal politics: its different interpretations are mainly aimed at distorting the various facts and developments of history. In fact, the Russian Federation is trying to return to the 19th-century lines that only major powers have unlimited sovereignty, while the independence and territorial integrity of small states may be violated in the name of their own interests. Thus there is an attempt to manipulate internationally recognised values and norms, relativize them in the context of current international developments, and to form the basis for the Russian Federation's claim to the right to use force at its own discretion. The pressure of Russian state institutions against human rights defenders, public activists and organisations, and against representatives of the free press continued throughout the year. The attempt to poison political opposition leaders Alexey Navalny and, after his return to Russia without a legitimate defence, to continue to judge him in the police district - this is just one of many facts that mark a negative development in Russia. Last year, Russia actively continued its counterfeiting of history and its political instrumentation, reflecting trends in its history. Here I would just like to mention a few examples: attempts to give a very trendy assessment of the violent occupation and incorporation of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia in the USSR more than 80 years ago, manipulation of public opinion regarding the reasons and consequences of the Second World War, attempts to justify the crimes of the Stalinist totalitarian regime and present them as political normality. It causes great harm to Russian society itself, as it deforms its consciousness and slows down the formation of a modern democratic society. We must be aware that only Russia, which is democratic, internally stable and respects all political and human rights and which respects international law, will be able to achieve maximum productive and mutually beneficial cooperation in all areas, including economic. 30 years ago, many of us participated in barricades and defended freedom. Then we were helped by democratic Russia. Today it is our duty to help the democrats in Russia, Belarus and elsewhere in the world. Ladies and gentlemen! Latvia wants to see our neighbour Belarus as an independent, economically developed and sustainable country with a democratic state system, where citizens can express their views openly in free elections. Unfortunately, the presidential elections of 9 August last year marked a turning point in the opposite direction. A decision on the direction in which Belarusian society and the state should develop in the future must be taken by the Belarusian people themselves. Latvia provides and continues to provide support to Belarusian civil society as well as those entrepreneurs who do not see the possibility to continue their activities under the Lukashenko regime and express their desire to move to Latvia to implement their business ideas here or simply live and work. The previous European Union sanctions package was just one of the steps towards Belarusian oligarchs in favour of the regime or in favour of the regime. The fact that the European Union introduced sanctions against only a few oligarchs in December must be seen as a signal to the others that, if they do not stop supporting those who beat their people on the streets, put them in prisons and expel them in exile, then the European Union will not prevent them from introducing future sanctions, and Latvia will not defend them. It is time for them to decide what is most important to them: the preference of the regime gives them another million or yet the desire of the majority of the people for justice, for change and for new, honest presidential elections. It is time for them to decide on which side they stand. It will only be possible for such entrepreneurs to continue their cooperation with the European Union by putting an end to the financing of the regime and immediately condemning its brutal behaviour to the public. It is absolutely clear that the way out of the crisis is free elections in Belarus, followed by the transformation of this authoritarian political system towards democracy. Belarus is and will remain our neighbour, with whom we will be bound by extensive long-term cooperation. And it is in Latvia's interest, as is Belarus's interest, to continue it. However, to the full, this will only be possible after the stabilisation of the situation and fulfilment of the criteria that I have mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen! During today's dynamic economic processes, the Latvian Diaspora is an important support for the representation of the political and economic interests of the country. The economic and political potential of our Diaspora is growing, especially for those working in international organisations and for entrepreneurs. The opportunities offered by the Diaspora are expanding and our compatriots, even without being formally diplomats, are perfectly representing our country. Cooperation and direct assistance to our citizens abroad is one of the cornerstones of our daily work. I will give you a few significant examples today. In the spring of 2020, during the repatriation operation, the Diaspora organisations and their representatives on all continents were ready to engage to help the compatriots find temporary homes or provide other practical assistance. We also continued the targeted implementation of the Diaspora Law in the last year. Thank you to the Saeima for adopting the law and the necessary amendments on the possibility of declaration of residence, as well as for helping to address a number of other practical issues. Three weeks ago, the Government approved the Diaspora Action Plan three years ago. In our work, we will continue to emphasise the preservation of language and culture, while developing economic and practical cooperation, as well as trying to attract more specialists from various sectors and scientists of Latvian origin to solve the current problems. Diaspora organisations have expressed their willingness to actively participate in the work to develop the image of Latvia. Ladies and gentlemen! On November 18, 1921, Zigfried Anna Meierovics, addressing the Constitutional Meeting, said: “We have achieved de iure recognition without any clauses and we can build our future as a fully-fledged state, as our interests require.” Our interests, too, are now asking us not to be indifferent to our country, the world. Our interests call for the support of human rights, democracy and the rule of law in their home and in the world. Our interests require us to stand up for international order and law. Our interests require that we be active and conscious members of the community of countries around the world. The world has changed dramatically over the last hundred years. Pope Francisco has the words: “Too often we participate in the globalisation of indifference. We should strive to live in global solidarity." Once again, let us not be indifferent to what is happening in Latvia and the world. In the new centenary of Latvia's international recognition, in the second centenary of Latvia's diplomacy, I wish every patriot of Latvia that one value in the world will not change us – a free and democratic state of Latvia! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U5	Thank you for your report to Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs. Let's start a debate. Name of the Speaker of the Saeima Ināra Mūrniece. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U6	Dear colleagues, I'm asking... You don't need to... Please don't start the time report yet. I would like technical information to be communicated to you. Dear colleagues, First of all in this debate will be those Members who have applied before the Saeima sitting. The list of speakers is as follows: Ināra Mūrniece, Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš, Foreign Affairs Commission representative Rihards Kols, European Affairs Commission representative Vita Anda Steela. Go on. A number of Members will speak on behalf of political groups: Marija Golubeva, Inese Lībiņa–Egne, Linda Medne, Jānis Dombrava, followed by the Minister of Defence Artis Pabriks, then Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Atis Lejiņš, Ivars Zariņš, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Aldis Gobzems, Andris Kazinovskis, Krista Baumane, Nikolai Kabanovs, Inese Voika. And then, the rest of the Saeima's colleagues. Thank you. So this is the up-to-date list of the debates. I ask you to combine the two times of the debate. Thank you. Mr. President of the Republic of Latvia! Mr. Prime Minister! Mr. Foreign Minister! Members of the Saeima! Excellency! Many thanks to Foreign Minister Rinkēvičs for the tenth foreign policy report presented to the Saeima, and also today for the very detailed and balanced report in the foreign debate in Parliament. Colleagues, this foreign policy debate is symbolic. On these days of January we celebrate the centenary of the international recognition of Latvia. And there is something else special: for the first time, the foreign policy debate is being conducted in a virtual way. A hundred years ago, on January 28, 1921, a formal meeting of the Constitutional Meeting of the Republic of Latvia was held in honour of Latvia's international recognition. It was a great holiday. Two days earlier, on January 26, 1921, by the vote of the United Kingdom, Belgium, France, Italy and Japan on the international recognition of Latvia's state in the history of our diplomacy, unforgettable lines were recorded. Thank you to friends and allies who were with the new Latvian country at the crucial time! Latvia's international recognition was an outstanding success of Latvian diplomats and Foreign Minister Zigfried Anna Meierovica. Both during the interwar period and during the occupation years, Latvian diplomats ensured continued international recognition of the country. This patriotism and persistent work contributed to the restoration of Latvia's independence. Ladies and gentlemen! The last year was a year of great trials. The Covid-19 pandemic surprised our fellow citizens in many parts of the world. Thanks to the largest repatriation operation in the history of Latvia, which was already mentioned by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Latvian citizens could return home. Thank you to our diplomats and consular officers for their high professionalism and self-deligacy! A pandemic is also a major challenge for European unity. At a time of crisis, it is to be welcomed that the European Union institution was able to take the necessary decisions at an unprecedented rate so far in order to help Member States save lives and, at the same time, maintain Europe's economic potential. As part of the joint procurement of European Union vaccines, all Member States are provided with vaccines. At the moment, it is crucial for Europe to work together to get them in time. The possible widespread vaccination is the goal that everyone is now seeking to be able to return to their daily lives. Unfortunately, during a pandemic, efforts are being made to manipulate the minds of people by using primitive conspiracy theories and lies that cause fear and confusion. And it happens in many places. This is often done intentionally to destabilise the situation. We see that sometimes there is only one step from polarising opinions to violence. We must protect our common democratic values, the ethical dimension of democracy! 2020 has also been the year of difficult negotiations in the European Union. We are pleased that, at the end of the German Presidency, the European Union's multiannual budget was finally adopted, as well as a new and ambitious instrument for recovery and resilience. At a time of pandemic, we see that the benefits of European and transatlantic cooperation must not be taken for granted. This cooperation shall not be made up of any outside person. That is the responsibility of all of us. We therefore need to be fully involved in the debate on the future of Europe. The Saeima, together with other national parliaments, has an interest in participating actively in the future European conference. The public expects concrete, practical results from European cooperation. The United Kingdom is no longer a member of the European Union. That is the fact. However, the agreement on future relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom, which was reached in the last days of last year, is good news for our businesses. Let us follow closely how this agreement will be implemented in real life. At the same time, I would like to stress that we are interested in developing close cooperation with the United Kingdom, which is, and will be, a country that is similar to Latvia on foreign, security and defence issues. Turning to security issues, we must recognise that security challenges are increasing in our region and in the world. Hybrid threats, disinformation and cyber attacks are also on the rise. Russia's revision-oriented course, which has already been discussed in detail by the Foreign Minister, has not changed. Last year, Russia's efforts to rewrite history intensified in connection with the 75th anniversary of the end of the Second World War. And they not only affect the Baltic States. The security situation in the Baltic region is threatened by Russia's efforts to develop the mobility of its armed forces, to deploy high-level preparedness units closer to our borders and to enable ourselves to block maritime and air routes. China's ambition to influence multilateral cooperation based on international law is also growing in the world and increasingly to control the digital world. We value that in the European Union, UN and other international organisations Latvia with its knowledge and experience makes a valuable contribution to the fight against disinformation and challenges in the digital environment. Honourable Members! The honourable Members of the debate! Excellency! I would like to thank our allies once again for their participation in the NATO Battle Group in Latvia. Thank you for your contribution to the protection of the Baltic States and Russia's deterrence. We appreciate the support they gave to the parliaments of NATO Member States by extending the mandate for their military participation in this battle group. It is in our interest to do everything necessary to strengthen the North Atlantic Alliance and to be well prepared to meet the new security challenges in the Euro-Atlantic area. We expect the NATO 2030 consultation process to strengthen the political unity of allies and help the Alliance to become increasingly military and political. Last week we all followed the inauguration of the new U.S. President Joe Baden. It was an emotional moment in which a call was made to unite and unify society. A new page is opened between the European Union and the US. The US is returning to the Paris climate agreement. There is great confidence that international law-based multilateral cooperation will recover with new energy. The role of the United States as a strategic partner and ally of the Baltic States in the security of our region is invaluable. We must establish an active political dialogue with the new US Congress and Administration. Last March we, the Baltic and Polish parliamentarians, visited Washington, convinced us of the undivided support of the US Congress Democrats and Republicans for the Baltic States. The decision of the U.S. Congress to allocate USD 168.7 million to Baltic security and defence in the framework of the newly established Baltic Security Assistance Initiative is important. Colleagues! The world is not standing on the ground, and democracy wakes up. Our neighbours, Belarus, are motivated by the determination and courage of the general public to fight for the right to free and fair elections and to stand up to the violence of the repressive forces. The Saeima's position on the need to support Belarus' civil society is unwavering. We appreciate the targeted work of Latvian diplomats aimed at mobilising support from the international community and the European Union introducing strict sanctions against Belarusian officials responsible for the counterfeiting of the presidential elections and violence against peaceful demonstrators. We call on the international community and the UN to investigate human rights violations and attacks on journalists in Belarus. The worsening of the human rights situation in the Russian Federation is worrying. The opposition leader Alexey Navalny’s courageous return to his homeland after trying to poison him with military India Novičok, has awakened people in Russia and encouraged them to go to the streets, demanding more democracy. I join in calling for the immediate release of Alexey Navalya and peaceful protestors who were detained last Saturday in many Russian cities. We expect strong sanctions from the European Union against those Russian officials who are responsible for this. With the European Union's new global regime for human rights sanctions, the so-called Magnitsk sanctions, we have obtained a more effective instrument to stand firm in terms of respect for human rights in the world. During the pandemic crisis, we have seen the importance of multilateral cooperation based on democratic values. Currently, Latvia has a new goal – to become a volatile member of the UN Security Council. In order to achieve this, we will work together, also making use of the opportunities for parliamentary dialogue. Dear colleagues, On the occasion of the centenary of Latvia's international recognition, I would like to thank Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs, as well as Latvian Ambassadors and the entire Foreign Service for the convincing work of the diplomatic and consular service for three decades that has already taken place since the restoration of our country's independence. I wish you a united and coherent team work in the second centenary of Latvian diplomacy! May all of us be united by the consensus called by Meierovica, working for dear Latvia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U7	Name to Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U8	Thank you. Mr. President of the Republic of Latvia Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, Honourable Members! Colleagues Ministers! Excellency! Good afternoon, everybody! We celebrate the centenary of Latvia's de iure this week. I think it's a place for all of us to think and thank those people... from Zigfried Anne Meierovic... and to the entire Foreign Service of that time for a selfless job. I would also like to express my sincere thanks to all our diplomats today who are actually doing a very important job in the very difficult circumstances of the pandemic, especially at the spring stage, when we had to organise return flights for several thousands of our citizens. So thank you all, too, of course, for this work. Today I would just like to emphasise three things so briefly. First of all, of course, thank the Foreign Minister for the very large and well-detailed report. I think that all the important things or important aspects of our foreign policy are really very active and well-talked. Thank you to Mr Rinkēvičs for this. I'd like to... about the community pandemic and the European Union, then about democracy as such and then a little about our Diaspora. So, first of all, about the community pandemic and the European Union. It's absolutely clear what we've seen in this... already in a year's time, that this is not a task that one country can carry out alone. The European Union is in spite of the criticisms that we sometimes hear about our common cooperation... However, we, as a Member State of the European Union, have come together as a union and there are a number of specific things that have also been achieved. So that's the first thing that's already mentioned - it's our... not only our multiannual budget, but also our recovery fund. For the first time in history, the European Union has agreed to borrow money on international markets and to distribute this money directly to Member States to support economic recovery as part of the pandemic. As a result of this joint work, Latvia will have about EUR 10 billion. It's gravel money. This is the case in the next seven years, including some two billion around what would be expected in the near future, starting from the second half of this year... in the form of a recovery fund. This job... And it also, despite the fact that Britain left the European Union... It seemed at first that many Member States, including Latvia, would have much smaller funds. Thanks to the joint work, that is, under the direction of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs... but all the ministries in the sectors... We actually achieved a completely different, perhaps even unanticipated, result that gives our country a very good basis for further growth if we invest this money so wisely together. So one is precisely the possibility of funding. And the other. Mrs Mūrniece made a very good point about vaccines. It should be remembered and understood that vaccines are now a deficit product worldwide. Science has actually developed several vaccines during the impact period that have proven their effectiveness. Two of them are already recognised and registered in the European Union and the third vaccine is expected to be registered this week. If Latvia as a relatively small country was forced to try to agree with any of the potential manufacturers on vaccines, we would probably wait for half a year or even until the first dose of vaccines could be reached. The European Union has chosen another way, that is to say, on behalf of the European Commission, to enter into agreements with many manufacturers, even before these vaccines were developed, to invest in these pharmaceutical companies so that they can develop their own production and also carry out their scientific, research work, which will enable us, as a Member State of the European Union, to receive vaccines in proportion... what Europe as a whole has achieved. As a result, our vaccination has already started in late December. Given that the pandemic was declared in March, that is, within less than a year, in ninety months of the beginning of the pandemic, Latvia was already the first pot, and it is actually thanks not only to science and scientists, but to the European Union's collective ability to agree and work together to achieve this common goal. Of course, Europe faces a great deal of challenges. As Mr Rinkēvičs said, the world, let us say, the geopolitical situation, if it could be said, does not become calmer, it is becoming increasingly stormy, and it is therefore in our country's interest, of course, to stick with our partners in the European Union, always to stand up for the fact that it is better for Europe than for the Member States to deal with a lot of things separately, including in the area of security. Of course, Latvia's first and that's the main guarantee and foundation of security is the NATO Alliance - there is no such thing at all and there will be no talk at all. But if we Member States better cooperate with each other, the European Union could be a stronger partner within NATO. I think this is the direction in which we can look at, whether it be on certain specific military procurements or better coordination between Member States. Given Europe's very large population and the enormous economic strength, we as a union could be a stronger joint NATO partner, not just, of course, as individual countries... as well as we are. Here, of course, we must express our satisfaction and thank all the forces of the NATO Member States... all their soldiers, who are currently also present on the territory of Latvia, strengthening the common security of the European Union and also, in particular, the security of our Latvia. On democracy. Various studies and articles, books, show that democracy has been such a step in recent years. It's from year to year. There are no more and more democratic states; unfortunately, we see that the number of democratic states on a global scale is now falling slightly, but, despite this, people's desire to live in freedom and democracy has not disappeared anywhere, and we are best seeing it in the southern part of our country... In Belarus. Belarus lives under the authoritarian regime for a long time. The people no longer accepted the current elections, let us say, and have been on the streets for five months now, showing peacefully against power, demanding nothing more than the right to freely, openly and honestly elect their own government. They demand freedom, with which we may have known within 30 years that it is obvious. That is not obvious. We must fight for democracy every day, and we must fight for democracy... If we look precisely at our neighbouring Belarusians, how the people continue to show... Of course, we - as Latvia, as the European Union - need to continue to support Belarus, especially Belarus's civil society, also looking at how we can and what we can do better in the economic field in order to hit the Belarusian regime in particular, not wide-ranging... not to a large nation. We also see in Russia, where democracy does not flourish... It is not a democratic state. Mr Rinkēvičs described very well many of their activities. I specifically about one person, Mr Navalny, who not only tried to poison (he arrived in Germany where he recovered), but, returning to Russia, he was arrested at the moment, and as a result, on Saturday there were more demonstrations against the existing power in Russia, which have been very many years. It is clear that, too, in our eastern neighbour of Russia, many people are hungry to live in freedom and democracy. Freedom and democracy are nothing other than what Zigfried Anna Meierovics said in his speech on 18 November, which Mr Rinkēvičs said was that we now have an opportunity, not someone else, to determine our destiny and how we will develop. This is what people are hungry in Belarus and obviously an increasing number of people in Russia as well. And we must help such efforts, especially civil society. Of course, our Eastern Partnership, as well as this, is very important, and we must keep this partnership on the agenda of the European Union at a very high level. But if we think about democracy in citadels like the United States, then we see that democracy can unfortunately be fragile there too. I think it's such a call warning to all of us that we can't let go... alertness. Today, with all these new means of communication, social networks, we see that disinformation can spread very quickly, and people can be tempted very quickly. We need to be vigilant, open, clear, of course, what we do in the government and the Saeima, and remind people why communication is needed, but violence is not allowed anywhere. So it is important for us - as for Latvia, also as a Member State of the European Union - to strengthen the transatlantic links between the European Union and the United States in economic, diplomatic, security terms through the NATO Alliance, and we as a country will continue to work very seriously in this direction as well. Of course, thank you to all those who are already doing this work. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the Diaspora. We could say that the history of the nation and the history of the country have been characterized by the fact that Latvians have also lived in many places outside Latvia. This began in the second half of the 19th century, when there was quite a large Latvian migration to the territory of the then caric Russia. There, the land was offered to landless people, where they could host, and our Latvian villages were formed in many places in Russia. During the first world war, we had a very large emigration: many people, especially from Kurzeme, went on the course of refugees. The vast majority of them also arrived in Russia. Many returned, many stayed, and their descendants still live there. After World War II, we also had a very large flow of refugees from the so-called Kurzeme boiler, from the Kurzeme peninsula, mainly to Germany, and a small stream to Sweden. In the postwar period, these refugees were accommodated in various countries, with large numbers in the United States, Canada, Australia, and other countries. Of course, we see today - since the independence of the country, especially since we joined the European Union - many, several hundred thousand of our compatriots have gone to live outside Latvia for other purposes. Very high numbers have reached the UK, including Ireland, Denmark, Sweden, Germany and other countries. All these different diaspora, which have developed in different times, have been not only an effort but also very successful in maintaining Latvian language and culture. It is important for us as a country to maintain this link with the Diaspora, because this Diaspora is also, could be said as part of our foreign policy. These are people who in their home countries can not only tell neighbors; they can also tell politicians... remind, tell about Latvia, about our interests, also to be our ambassadors. Of course, there is very great potential for cooperation in economic terms, where our young entrepreneurs, who are currently working outside Latvia, can also strengthen their ties with Latvia. We know that medical practitioners have very strong and strong cooperation with doctors working abroad. So this is a skirt - in my view, we need to realise that it is part of our country, a part of our nation that is abroad, and we do not need to regard it as some kind of loss, but as a potentially very great benefit. Of course, many of these people are welcome at home. And we also need to promote it. So thank you to all those who continue to actively maintain their ties with Latvia while living abroad. I think we also have a European Union in foreign policy, we have a NATO alliance, we have a strengthening of democracy as such, but let us not forget the important relationship with our compatriots living abroad. May all of us succeed in working together again! And we can start to think about how the two-century recognition of Latvia's de iure will look like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U9	Thank you Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš. Colleagues! We are continuing the debate. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U10	Dear colleagues, Please combine the two times for the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U11	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U12	Thank you. Mr. President of the Republic of Latvia! President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Mr. Prime Minister! Mr. Foreign Minister! Ministers! Very honourable and honourable Members! Excellency! Foreign policy debate is a strongly rooted tradition, and this has already been highlighted from the speakers. So this year they have been taking place for the tenth year. Usually this is one of the events in Parliament's work that is causing the most striking debate. The Foreign Affairs Report reflects the common understanding of Latvia's foreign policy objectives and challenges achieved by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Cabinet of Ministers as well as the Saeima, non-governmental organisations and social partners in cooperation and qualitative discussions. The first foreign policy debate in Latvia de iure in the second century is different, to a large extent consistent with the 21st century, perhaps symbolizing that neither we nor the work we do are on the ground. Indeed, I hope that the form does not have as much influence on the content as it sometimes seems, and that today we will hear a great deal of qualitative and well-thought-out vision of Latvia's foreign policy. I want to start by thanking you. I thank Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs for his professional, comprehensive and balanced report. Thank you to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs for her self-deserving long-term defence of our country and representing our interests abroad, and allowing us all to be proud of what the foreign service has done in the defence of the country's interests. The professionalism of the diplomatic and consular service during the pandemic crisis, when implementing the largest Latvian return operation in the history of the country in the spring of last year, is an unprecedented achievement and direct testimony to the earned assessment. And not the only ones noticed it and appreciated the confusion of the beginning of the pandemic and the negativity of the closed news room. Although at times it seemed that the world had stopped with the Covid-19 pandemic, it was also foreign policy that proved the well-known “And yet she is turning!” the truth. Last year, the activities of both the Foreign Service and the Parliament and the Foreign Affairs Commission of the Saeima and other foreign policy makers were inexorably intense, each working on its front lines, expressing an important position to Latvia, defending our interests and the interests of our allies. Despite the pandemic, when circumstances still allowed it, Latvia managed to arrange important high-level incoming visits. Thank you both to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to the National Protocol and to the parliamentary protocol chapter, including. The Foreign Affairs Commission actively expressed Latvia's values and positions, for example, with a series of statements from the Foreign Affairs Commission and the Saeima both about Russia's efforts to rewrite the history of the Second World War and the situation in Belarus. And despite the “all is bad and pointless” approach of fighters, there is no doubt that these tough positions are noticed, appreciated and are reconfirmative of the orientation of Latvian values. The fans of the rhetoric of political tourism will appreciate that, despite the fact that it is not possible to go anywhere, I can say of myself: political tourism continues to be at full swing. Sometimes two countries visit one day and even stay in several places at the same time. Latvia's foreign policy, including its parliamentary dimension, in spite of restrictions created by remote work, continues to operate as a well-oiled mechanism. In 2020, we strengthened our daily lives and developed new forms of regular cooperation. Nordic and Baltic representatives met at a distance to discuss cooperation at regional and international level and to share current events and experiences. For the first time, a meeting of the chairmen of the foreign commissions of the Baltic States, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary took place, where defence and infrastructure, energy, digitalisation and international relations were a priority. Cooperation with Lithuania and Estonia was extremely active, including at parliamentary level, so that our messages would be more weightful and sound more widely. We saw this most after the non-legislative presidential elections in Belarus on 9 August. The Baltic united with the Belarusian people, forcefully and firmly expressing its support, encouraging the European Union to introduce sanctions, thus undermining our common values. This is a direct return from the objective of strengthening the forms of regional cooperation set out in the debate and reports of previous years. I would like to draw attention to the fact that work has also been started on moving Latvia's candidacy to the position of a volatile member in the UN Security Council. I believe that future discussions on this initiative should involve our societies. Here I find an important role for Parliament, explaining and reasoning both the grounds for such a step and the benefits of this process for Latvia and all of us. In extensive negotiations, with feedback from the public, we will get to Latvia's business card, such as the essences of who we are and who cares for as a country and society, and what the election of Latvia to the Security Council would bring to the international community. Overall, the report. To a large extent I share the objectives and objectives set out in the foreign policy report, so I will not refer to each of them in particular, instead I will give a little insight into, in my view, the major challenges ahead of us and which we must pay attention to. Last year in these days Covid-19 began to spread around the world. As you say, Covid-19 went on a freeboard. Today we are seeing the contours of the changed global order of the pandemic. The virus has seized lives, “touched” economies and changed what we understand as today’s globalised world. The global economy is experiencing a huge recession. The transatlantic alliance is at its lowest point in its history, and the international institutions are experiencing a crisis of legitimacy. If last year's debate was about the Council of Europe, more precisely the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, as a serious shock to the multilateral system, then a number of others are coming to the forefront of the World Health Organisation this year. The WHO has rightly criticised the slow response to the pandemic and its position on the Chinese side - the WHO has welcomed China's alleged transparency and efforts to limit the spread of the virus, ignoring the Chinese mistakes in crisis management at the beginning of the pandemic. At the beginning of the U.S. pandemic, he left the WHO. The inauguration of U.S. President Jo Baiden seems to many world leaders as a firewood fresh air (In the context of the Covid-19 crisis we know how important oxygen is.) , in the case of the WHO, it marks a change of course - the return of the US to the WHO, thus restoring confidence in global solutions. In parallel, China's conflict with the WHO is also receiving speed - data are still being hidden, experts from the World Health Organisation are not being released at the source of the virus (or in English it is ground zero). This is not only a counterproductive but also a harmful approach that hampers our overall ability to halt the pandemic. Other international institutions, such as the United Nations Security Council, also remain silent during the crisis, unable to agree on a collective solution to the multiple problem as a whole. This inability reflects the worsening relations between the United States and China and the Chinese attempts to weaken international organisations, which are joined with this trade experts, Russia, with great enthusiasm and enthusiasm. All these countries have veto rights. In the context, it should be mentioned that the UN Security Council needs to be reformed. And I fully agree with the reform challenges and vision set out in the foreign policy report. Chinese ambitions are not a secret. Significantly, the most aggressive Chinese diplomats tend to be called wolves soldiers who are trying to use the “split and dowry” approach of the Chinese political apparatus in the West. Therefore, if anyone else has one, I would suggest that I give up the illusions that China will play in the international space according to the same principles of liberal democracy. China operates from the exclusive interests of China and its Communist Party, from another value system and from another platform of the regime. Associations with diplomacy appear in the wild West. It will be increasingly important to note that China will continue to strengthen its international weight through other countries where its influence has been gained through soft power, and that the recent sanctions against former US administration officials are also a significant step in the direction of China's readiness to apply this instrument also in order to achieve its objectives. And not to fight for democracy, but to dampen and silence those who criticise it. The US-China confrontation will be a key feature of the international policy of the 21st century, regardless of who will host the White House at the moment. A reinforced confrontation between the US and China, on account of the lack of the willingness of Baden to enter into trade agreements with the leaders of authoritarian systems and the concerns expressed about democracy, human rights and the rule of law, both at the Chinese national level and in Hong Kong, Taiwan and the South China Seas, can put the European Union in a very difficult situation, the most difficult in the last four years. Transatlantic relations will have a direct impact on the European Union's position and relations with China, choosing its place in the context of this conflict. I do not know whether the European Union is hurrying up to the conclusion of an investment agreement with China - this will be the time. Russia, on the other hand, is a nuclear state that, despite its falling influence, is still capable of undermining the stability and interests of transatlantic allies by violently combating the political opposition in the Kremlin. At the same time, it has really tried to limit the spread of the virus. Although it has not prevented the Kremlin from disinformation campaigns abroad, spreading conspiracy theories about the origin of the virus to sow chaos and confusion in Europe and elsewhere. The disinformation messages from Russia and China seem to sound increasingly in unison. Today's democracy is a technological democracy that has to do a great deal of work to keep the losers from globalisation and technological change. The pandemic increased dependence on digital technologies and extended cyber crime and cyber-sickness opportunities. Technology companies, the ability of the Internet to cope with demand demonstrates the great potential offered by cyberspace. However, the dependency caused by the crisis created an even more fertile environment for cyber crime. The main focus was on pandemic-related incidents, such as the criminal attacks of phishing and extortion viruses on healthcare institutions and cyber-sicking in the development of vaccines. At a time when most of the world’s information is transmitted and stored directly on the Internet, international conventions establishing the label of cyberspace, the use of information and the use of cyber instruments within the permissible limits allow the continued existence of an unbound cyberspace in a grey area with no clear rules and norms. Today, cyber criminals have the potential not only to destroy critical infrastructure, but also to undermine trust in institutions and fundamental democratic principles. Disinformation, especially in the internet environment, as a problem existed and was known before the Covid-19, but the pandemic led to infodemia, demonstrating how ineffective the previous efforts to curb it have been. The impact of the pandemic cannot be underestimated. Our resilience to disinformation and influence operations, including the ability to detect, analyse and disprove external disinformation and influence campaigns, has become a critical issue of security and international order. If we do not believe in democracy, nor in the state, nor in science, we have an absolute chaos and any illusions about public health plans can be forgotten. It is also necessary to define the obligations of online platforms with regard to disinformation, while at the same time protecting users from unjustified restrictions on freedom of expression and privacy violations. It has started work at European Union level. This can be a joint challenge to strengthen transatlantic relations. Not only our daily internet, but all cyberspaces need their own "traffic rules" and regulation. I see that there are great advantages for the European Union, which is considered to be a major regulatory power whose regulations have a serious weight abroad. Looking at the European Union's neighbours, it must be concluded that with all our passion for the declaration of values and the principles of soft power, the European Union looks free from global developments, but the European Union's political priorities are increasingly moving towards a more ambitious foreign policy. The French President, Mr Macron, is in favour of the European Union's strategic autonomy, forgetting the others' own strategy, and looks forward to the realisation of the ambitions of European foreign policy. There are many versions of the form, but there is a clear and broad consensus that the European Union's international relations must be tougher. It provides for the position and institutional weight increase of the European Union institutions and representations, not of the leaders of individual Member States. In line with the European Union's implementation of a single foreign policy, an institutionalised European Union foreign policy office with its special envoys for specific regions and countries should be established. A policy defined by the European Union... within the framework of a previously defined strategy with the European Union... give a mandate to stronger, more effective representatives of the global common interest. If you want the right example in this... The work of the special envoys and the way in which the mandate given by the Council of Europe is represented need not be sought far. In the very recent past, we have seen this excellently with Barnier as the main speaker of the Brexite. This requires not a strategic approach (which can be determined later) but the strategy itself as such. Learning from the new geopolitical dynamics of current threats, including the Covid-19 pandemics, and the challenges ahead, defined and unambiguous strategies will allow the European Union to speed up its foreign policy decision-making and its capacity to work with like-minded partners in order to address many common challenges, defending its interests, norms and values in the post-Pandemic world. Most of the European Union's citizens think...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U13	Thank you, Mr. Cole. I must say that the combined period of debate has also come to an end. Dear colleagues, We will continue the debate after a break. Before the break, it is time for notification. So 22 January birthday was celebrated by our colleague, Iveta Benhen-Beeken, and today's birthday is celebrated by our colleague, Juris Rancan. We welcome them! (Applause) Thank you. There's also a record of Members. Registration has taken place. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U14	Dear colleagues, We keep sitting after the break. We are continuing the debate. On behalf of the Commission of European Affairs, Member Vita Anda Steela. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U15	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Colleagues! The year 2020 has been full of shocks in Europe: a pandemic and its consequences, the loss of lives, the overload of health systems, and the economic crisis. The European Union has for the first time become one country smaller. For so long, the tortured brunch has finally come true. Internal waves on justice issues have created tensions between Member States. The tensions are beginning to affect the policies and decisions of the European Union. But in Europe's neighbours, Belarus and Russia, democratic citizens are increasingly demanding change. We are all witnesses of what is happening in the digital world moving to the real world and threatening our democracies with very serious consequences. In the spring of 2020, with the rapid spread of the Covid-19 virus, the Member States of the European Union reacted with a sharp, but individual response. The rapid action to close borders, to restrict the free movement of people and the free movement of goods provided clear evidence of how fragile the freedoms that we, as citizens of the European Union, perceive as self-evident can be. Our foreign service responded perfectly to this situation by providing consular services to our people and by working intensively to normalise the situation between the Member States of the European Union. The pandemic became a practical challenge in the day-to-day work of the European Union. Dialogue between Member States was no longer possible, and in Europe, like us here in Latvia, work moved to the virtual environment. Latvia has distinguished itself as a Member State that can offer successful and innovative solutions – the app “Aptur Covid” between the first in the world and the e-Saema as a solution for parliamentary work on the open ground. Thanks to our cooperation capacity, the Baltic States and Finland managed to create a single area of movement in summer 2020, in which we were able to maintain freedom of movement for the population and to ensure economic circulation for the tourism industry affected by the first wave of the pandemic. The second wave of virus has now hit the whole of Europe hard, also destroying this bubble in the Baltic and Finland. This time, in response to the second wave, we see much closer, better coordination between the European Union and the Member States. Joint, coordinated action by the European Union, such as the purchase of medical goods and vaccines, as well as the mobilisation of resources for economic recovery, will allow Latvia to overcome the crisis and to recover more quickly than would be possible if it were outside the European Union. Although the economic benefits in Latvia are enormous, the European Union is based on a union of values. And last year, values were at the forefront. There is a different understanding between Member States of the rule of law and the rule of law. Although Article 7 procedures against Hungary and Poland have been opened for a long time, there is no prospect of when and how these procedures could be concluded. The European Union needs new, nuanced mechanisms to resolve such disputes about the rule of law. For the first time this year, the European Union produced a report on the rule of law in all the Member States of the European Union, measuring each Member State with one cubit and providing the basis for a discussion at Council of Europe level on the rule of law in each Member State. The mechanism is promising but slow. The report will be discussed in the Council of Europe, stretching the discussion over two years. There is also no clear outcome. It offers an opportunity to bring opinions closer together, but does not propose an action plan if there are far differences of interpretations. Meanwhile, doubts about the rule of law in some Member States already lead to a lack of respect for the European arrest warrant. Member States shall approach each other before the European Court of Justice. These divergent opinions on the rule of law have shifted from a theoretical dispute to a very real deadlock, with two Member States vetoing the European Union's Multiannual Budget and Recovery Fund for approval. The majority of Member States were supported by a new mechanism linking respect for the rule of law with access to European Union funds. The Commission will in future be able to suspend the cost of the funds if there are reasonable doubts as to whether the European financial interests are being respected. And because of this new mechanism, there are two countries' veto. The situation was resolved by agreement between the Member States on an additional declaration, which marks a new mechanism, a narrower scope and a slower, more complex application. This particular situation has been resolved, but the gap in the understanding of values has remained. And it can also undermine the European Union's ability to agree on a common policy in the future. We stand in the watch of democracy. The digital age poses new challenges and Latvia must take advantage of the opportunity to actively build a digital environment that supports democracy. The digital world combines with reality - it is a global challenge. The speech of hatred in the virtual environment, the misinformation there affects real life - whether it is virtual inciting on real unrest, as we have seen in recent events in the United States, or misinformation that affects people's choice to vaccinate, thereby threatening public health and the ability of countries to halt the community's pandemic. The democratic space for discussion is virtual, but the creation, protection and regulation of this space is left to global technology companies that are not meeting the challenges and lack the legitimacy to make decisions, which can have severe consequences in restricting the rights and freedoms of individuals, as well as serious consequences for public health and national security. The virtual environment extends across borders and therefore solutions need to be sought at regional and global level. Latvia has opportunities to actively influence the framework of this digital democracy by seeking solutions that reduce the impact of disinformation, but preserve freedom of expression and expression. I am pleased to see Latvia's proactive action in this area in the report of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. In European Union policy, this is the new European Action Plan for Democracy and the Digital Package, which will provide a framework for digital democracy in Europe. Globally, it is a welcome initiative by Latvia at UN level to drive a global call for action against disinformation dissemination during the society's crisis. 130 out of 193 UN member states supported this initiative by Latvia. Such initiatives raise Latvia's visibility in the work of the UN and create a positive ground for Latvia to successfully start at the UN Security Council in 2026. Latvia, in shaping the European Union's foreign policy, must also stand in the watch of democracy. In neighbouring countries, Belarus and Russia, citizens are demanding their governments to respect democratic fundamental rights to free and fair elections and respect for human rights. Even in situations that are so clear, where there are obvious, documented violations of human rights, it has not been easy for the European Union to reach agreement on joint action. For months, sanctions against Belarusian officials could not be agreed. The Baltic States adopted national restrictive measures in August, while the European Union adopted joint measures only in October. Since December, the European Union has had a new tool to address human rights violations anywhere in the world - its'magnitsk Act' - namely the right to impose large-scale, individual sanctions against individuals responsible for violations of human rights. The situation in Russia, where one of the leaders of the democratic opposition is at hand, Alexey Navalya, would be demanding that this new tool be rapidly launched. I ask you to combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U16	Your times are united. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U17	Thank you. Latvia has also actively supported the Belarusian people in the fight for fundamental rights. Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Latvia and Latvian civil society is particularly welcome so that it can provide effective support to civil society in Belarus. Latvian support must not relax, and Latvia's voice in the European Union must be loud so that Belarusians fight for fundamental rights do not disappear from the European agenda. A large number of our citizens live outside Latvia, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for the policy-making of the Diaspora. It is a great satisfaction to see that the policy of the Diaspora has finally been rooted as a stable, independent policy area in Latvia. Diaspora law, work plan, advisory board - all this forms the framework for targeted planning and implementation of specific actions in support of the Diaspora. It is the preservation of Latvian identity and language; it is the attraction of young people to Latvia. Diaspora is a Latvian resource, as well as a Latvian foreign policy resource. And in the global world, it is these global Latvians who can help to sound the voice of Latvia. It can boost Latvia's competitiveness and strengthen Latvia's economy. Last year's conference on the future of Europe was delayed due to the Covide crisis. This conference will, hopefully, already this year provide an opportunity for a wide-ranging inclusive debate on what Europe we are building together. At the conference, the citizens of Europe (including us, Latvian citizens) will themselves define the priority and crucial issues to be addressed for Europe. How will Europe face the challenges of climate change? How to look more broadly at strategic autonomy? How to deal more effectively with future health crises? Will the future economy be green, digital, innovative? Can we already relax in our efforts to achieve economic convergence, or should Europe, on the contrary, pay ever greater attention to reducing economic inequality? Let us also talk at the conference about how to do this better - whether there is a need for a closer union by delegating greater powers to the European institutions, whether there is a need to strengthen the autonomy of the Member States within the framework of the European Union. The report on foreign policy clearly shows that Latvia has long since lost its post-events in Europe, Latvia is going to keep pace with Latvia and Latvia is building Europe. This is done every day by foreign service employees - with a passion, with professionalism, with the interests of Latvia in the heart. I thank them for their great contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U18	Thank you, Mrs. Steel. We are continuing the debate with the Group's views. Name of Member Maria Golubeva. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U19	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I ask you to combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U20	Please, your time is combined.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U21	Dear colleagues, This has been a difficult year not only for Latvian society, but also for the world. Only a year later will we be able to assess the impact of the pandemic on international relations, which ate part of the world's economy, destroyed trade relations and broken human contacts, which are often at the heart of trust. But there is also reason for a cautious hope. The presidential elections in the United States showed that, where liberal democratic institutions are strong and democratic institutions live in society, democratic resilience cannot be destroyed even by relatively long periods of populism and hate rhetoric. But the price of populism is also high - a divided society, ruined by the faith of many people in the country - and these wounds will have to be treated for a long time. We are pleased with the viability of US democracy. It is essential for us in Latvia, because without the US as one of the pillars of democracy in the world, our hope for a democratic world would also be threatened in the future. We are, of course, delighted with the first steps of the new President of the United States, which is returning to multilateralism. We no longer need to be so concerned about NATO's role in the world or about the fate of the Paris climate agreement. But, of course, we must also consider that the main interests of the US in the world are now linked to China and other global challenges, and we will have to invest more and more in cooperation with the US. For example, Latvia needs to develop its own student and trainee exchange programmes with the US, not only rely on Fulbright scholarships, and we need to encourage ourselves to develop the digital and financial security expertise that Latvia needs in order to combat hybrid crimes. The US is at the highest level in the world, and we must attract it in Latvia not from the US budget, but from our own resources. In the European Union, too, which, ten years ago, seemed to be a standard of democracy for the world, we see that the foundations of democracy are gradually being disrupted - the balance between branches of power, the independence of the judiciary and individual freedoms. None of these things is a bonus which most generously give to society, all of which are fundamental values on which society always has a right of self-evident. But in order to maintain these foundations, society must be prepared to defend this right as well. Populism always offers its answer - not to spit about institutions and rights, to submit to the search for perpetrators, to listen to fear and to follow the promises of prosperity that are untenable in reality. We see that under the leadership of Victor Orban, in Hungary, whose democratic progress the world was admiring in the 1990s, democratic procedures are being restricted and unjustified restrictions are being imposed on the pluralism of society. Similarly, the independence of judges of the Constitutional Court is being restricted for a long time in neighbouring Poland, while citizens' rights, especially women's rights, are sometimes brutally suppressed. Outside the borders of the EU, but very close to Latvia - Russia and Belarus, where a narrow population of monopolized state power has long been freed from democratic institutions or made it sobering, the value of human rights and life is not protected by the state. The desire to limit the independence of the court or individual freedoms is sometimes justified by the will of the majority, but the history of the 20th century is full of examples showing that the majority is also wrong. When the dismantling of democratic institutions and the correction of the constitution, as the result of current political struggles, have begun, it is difficult to put a stop to the process. It is our duty to make sure that this does not happen. Latvia's foreign policy must always be on the side of legal democracy. For many years, even when a heated discussion took place in Latvia about how far we want to incorporate the principles of human rights into the renewed fundamentals of Latvia, the foreign service has been on the side of liberal democracy and human rights. It has contributed to the growth of the restored Latvia into a fully-fledged modern democratic state. Thank you for this to our foreign service, and we wish it to continue to hold on to this high mission in Latvia and Europe. When democratic institutions or the suppression of human rights are disrupted in our neighbours somewhere, the Latvian foreign minister does not have to remain silent. It does not remain silent when the rights of citizens to a peaceful protest are being suppressed in Belarus and Russia. Of course, we expect the foreign reserve to be prepared to defend democratic institutions in the EU Member States as well. We can also serve as an excellent example in international relations in our ally country, Canada. While protecting its safety and that of others, including Latvia, Canada is and remains a pluralist, liberal democratic country from which we can learn a lot. Let us not forget the duty of every developed country to take care of the development of humanity around the world. Development cooperation is an essential component of foreign policy, which promotes peace and prosperity in the world and also enhances the country's visibility. This is not only a duty, but also a privilege and opportunity. There are small countries - such as Estonia, the Czech Republic and Slovakia - which have developed their development sector in a targeted way and have benefited. We invite you to continue to develop Latvia's development cooperation mechanisms and to involve more and more businessmen and non-governmental organizations... Finally, especially this year, when the world's hope of economic and human improvement is so much linked to vaccination and vaccination, it is essential to increase the world's authority in science and science-based policies. Our future depends to a great extent on the ability to overcome fear-based conspiracy theories that undermine faith in a democratic state, and we must stick to and use science to build the future of a country and Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U22	Thank you to Mrs Golubeva. We are continuing the debate. The opinion of the political group is expressed by Ms Inese Lībiņa-Egnere. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U23	Mrs Beitneres-Le Gallas, who is very respectful, I ask for the two speaking times to be joined up.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U24	Your times are united. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U25	Thank you. High Minister for Foreign Affairs! Members! Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! As the Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs pointed out in his speech, then, a hundred years ago, in Paris, thanks to the support of allies, Latvia won a fatal victory, and by quoting the first Foreign Minister of Latvia, Zigfried Anna Meierovics, it was done “with the hair and brain”. The annual report of the Foreign Minister clearly shows that in foreign policy we are able to adapt quickly to external circumstances and continue to work for the protection of the interests of the state of Latvia and our fellow people, while actively addressing the risks posed by the pandemic. The cooperation between the constitutional organs of the state authorities has also become even stronger at this time, because we are united in one common state objective: to overcome this exceptional situation by ensuring the protection of society and every human being within the democratic system of the state. This was confirmed at an early stage of the emergency by a joint statement on the fundamental principles of the functioning of the constitutional organs of the country. It has also been an important signal for our partners to show that we are able to ensure the continuity of parliamentary work during the country's emergency and to keep parliamentary sittings away from Parliament's premises. In addition, we were one of the first countries in the world to chair the Saeima sittings completely remotely, and the platform of the remote event e-Saeima received the annual award of the Latvian Information and Communication Technology Association as the most successful e-signature integration solution. But we have all witnessed that the limitations of the emergency and the situation in general opened the way for a huge wave of disinformation in the world, and we were no exception either. We had to be able to find a balance between our limitations and our usual freedoms. Since the spring of last year, at European Union level, together with other Member States of the European Union, we have argued for the protection of the principles of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, without prejudice to freedom of expression and freedom of the press. We see that, in these exceptional circumstances, a deliberate disinformation of the public is taking place, which poses a serious risk to society and democracy. Third countries, in particular Russia and China, have engaged in targeted influence operations and disinformation campaigns in the framework of the Covid-19 in the European Union, its neighbours and the world, trying to undermine democratic debate and increase the polarisation of society, as well as to improve their image in the context of the Covid-19. These activities show that it is necessary to continue investing in the capacity of the European Union and, of course, Latvia to monitor, analyse and raise public awareness of foreign disinformation and influence operations. In this context, we need ever closer cooperation between the European Union and NATO and transatlantic partners. The European Union should do more to help countries and societies in the eastern neighbourhood to build resilience to Russian disinformation and infiltration operations. More support for independent media is needed. And our own task is to continue to strengthen resilience to disinformation, which includes support for independent and plural media, media literacy initiatives and cooperation with civil society. We support the recent measures taken by the European Union to improve the rules of responsibility and predictability on online platforms for disinformation. We are encouraged by the elements of the European Action Plan on Democracy and the Digital Services proposal. This year will be crucial to ensure that these documents become an effective Union-wide regulatory framework for disinformation. Moreover, I would like to remember here, and I would like to quote from the Members of the European Parliament and the rapporteurs in a special committee, which has analysed foreign interference in the democratic processes of the European Union, the Sandra Kalniete, that disinformation is like an iceberg, that is what we see, but everything else is under water. It can be said that we continue to grow muscles in this area and accumulated experience, as well as expertise allows us to achieve new results. One such is the fact that in March last year the virtual laboratory of the Baltic Research Journalism Centre Re:Baltica became the official testing partner of Facebook facts. If we remember last August, then everyone has warm, sunny time and, from time to time, record Covid-19 indicators in Latvia. Unfortunately, however, this was overshadowed by the very unpleasant events of 9 August in a neighbouring country in Belarus, where the last European totalitarian regime did not want to accept its defeat and instead pursued the ongoing repression against its own people. This also led our delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to mobilise. The delegation joined the civil society side without delay and unanimously. As early as 14 August, we came together with the other Baltic Plus countries with a statement stating that the elections, as well as the counting of votes, were not in line with international norms: the elections were conducted in a mass violation of citizens' rights and freedoms, as well as being seen as an expression of the free will of the Belarusian people. The Communication also strongly condemned the violence against the members of the peaceful assembly, calling for the immediate release of all those detained. As the protests and repression continued, on 4 September, together with the delegations of the NB8 countries in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, we expressed strong support for the Belarusian people on its way to a multi-faceted democracy. We called on the governments of the Member States of the Council of Europe to support democratic reforms and democratic institutions in Belarus, which aim to strengthen them, as well as to support civil society, including independent media. We also invited the Council of Europe to use existing knowledge and experience in order to provide full support to Belarus in its efforts to achieve multi-level democracy and implement the necessary constitutional reforms in the country. We did not stop at this either, but were actively involved in preparing proposals for a resolution by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the need to investigate human rights violations in Belarus and bring those responsible to justice, given that Belarus has been suspended as a special guest since 1997. One of the rare cooperation instruments with Belarus within the framework of the Council of Europe is the involvement of the Venice Commission, offering its expertise on constitutional issues, democracy, lawmaking and human rights issues. But for this to happen, Belarus needs to show a desire for expertise. We, the delegation, will persevere in the political pressure on Belarus, encouraging officials of the Council of Europe to speak publicly on a regular basis about the situation in Belarus and actively lobbying the adoption of the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on Belarus. At the same time, we are forced to remind that the Council of Europe itself has not been able to renovate itself as a carrier of its fundamental values, and Latvia continues to defend these values in a loud manner together with its Ukrainian colleagues and the Baltic Plus Cooperation Group established by the already well-known Latvian Members. We have drawn the attention of the Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly to the fact that Russia is not a reliable partner and that the situation in Russia regarding human rights and the rule of law is getting worse. And we were not wrong. Last year, we all witnessed that Russia continued to pursue an illegal and aggressive policy, brutally trying to get rid of opposition leader Alexey Navalny, against whom, as he returned to his homeland, there is now a clear political persecution. Reports from the protests showed that even in Russia, people from St. Petersburg to Vladivostok, the cold of less than 50 degrees is not an obstacle to finally expressing their position loudly and unequivocally against the injustices that prevail in Russia, which rob people of the hope of a truly democratic state. At the same time, remembering the history of Russia and the USSR, especially in this month of the 30th anniversary of the barricades, we also feel an internal worry about these protesters and future protesters. And that is why Latvia and all our allies - international organisations and the non-governmental sector - have already asked the Russian authorities not to use force against peaceful demonstrators, without undue detention, allowing them to gather and speak freely. These recent events are another proof that the restoration of Russian voting rights in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe was a wrong step: we, as Latvia, spoke out loud about this. This has allowed Russia to continue to ignore the resolutions adopted openly and, above all, to continue to undermine the image of the organisation and the fundamental values of the Council of Europe. I believe that the rule of law and the rule of law are always taking precedence, and this is also confirmed by the historic judgment of the European Court of Human Rights issued this month, which clearly demonstrates Russia's responsibility for violations of international law and fundamental human rights norms during and after the Georgia-Russia War in August 2008. The Russian side, among other things, has prevented people from returning to their homes and has been found guilty of torture. This year, too, around the Baltic Plus Group of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, we, Latvia, will gather allies to speak with one voice about Russia's actions. As part of the Council of Europe, we continued to work closely with the Ukrainian delegation, providing it with the necessary support. Latvia must continue to provide assistance to Ukraine in order to ensure its stability, democratic and sustainable development, despite the fact that the reform process in Ukraine is facing many challenges and has been a dynamic success. However, the progress that Ukraine has made over the past year, especially last year, should be welcomed. On the other hand, we were very pleased to read in November last year that, in the presidential elections in Moldova, the public showed a desire for change and reform, which in principle indicated a desire for a more active continuation of the European course. The election of the Pro-European President, Maya Sanda, is an important step towards Moldova. We are now left to continue to provide support... and will also work with the delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. As the Head of the Latvian delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I would like to express my gratitude for the professional and active work of the present and former members of the delegation of this parliamentary term: Boris Cilevičs, Marija Golubeva, Artus Kaimiņš, Linda Ozola, Dana Reizniece-Ozola and Uldis Budriks. Parliamentary diplomacy is our duty, colleagues. This, speaking in the highly honored Alliance of Mr Meierovica, is the duty of every Member not only to be the best ambassador of his country, but also to defend Latvia and our European and human rights values beyond Latvia's borders. Dear Members! A hundred years ago, our achievements were appreciated, our trust in the world's powers, our allies supported us during the occupation and did not prevent us from being accepted into the international movement as soon as our independence was restored. Today, thanks to the achievements of our diplomats, we not only receive unprecedented trust from our allies, but we are also able to provide assistance. I would like to thank our foreign allies and the Latvian Foreign Service for their highly professional and self-free work for Latvia every day on behalf of our delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Working together in a tight sazobe, we are able to reach new peaks. Minister, I wish you and your great team to continue with the main task of the foreign service and all of us: protecting and developing the achieved state of free and democratic Latvia today and in a hundred years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U26	Thank you, Mrs Lībiņa-Egnere. We are continuing with the views of the political groups in the debate. The name of Member Linda Medne. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U27	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! High Minister for Foreign Affairs! Highly honored colleagues and those present! Please combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U28	The times of your debate are united. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U29	Thank you. The Foreign Minister's report states that Latvia has demonstrated an active and successive foreign policy since the restoration of independence. If we can agree to the term “sequential”, then “asset” is not in full. The report highlights the activities of international organisations and cooperation of Latvia with them. On the one hand, it represents Latvia's current status in international politics, i.e. Latvia implements its foreign policy as part of the common foreign policy of the European Union. Latvia's security policy cannot be seen in isolation from the joint efforts of NATO member states to increase security in North America and Europe. The opportunity to speak with one voice and jointly solve problems with allies is, of course, the achievement of Latvia's foreign policy. On the other hand, the allies have an achievement... On the other hand, we should not ignore the need to work actively towards achieving our objectives through bilateral relations. When reading the report, the question arises: will Latvia, in developing its foreign policy, be influenced mainly by what is happening on the international stage and adapt to external processes, or are we aware of our national interests and are we primarily building foreign policy in line with them? Of course, we need to take into account our capabilities and what is going on beyond our borders, but at the same time, we need to be careful that foreign policy is not dictated solely as external influences. When it comes to security policy, the cornerstone of Latvian security policy is and remains active participation in NATO. The European Union's security initiatives should only be a complement to the North Atlantic Alliance's security system. Therefore, Latvia must continue targeted cooperation with both its strategic ally, the United States, and NATO's close allies, Canada and the United Kingdom. Poland has become an important regional security promoter in the Baltic Sea region and cooperation with it is in accordance with Latvia's security interests. Similar to cooperation with other Baltic and non-NATO countries, Finland and Sweden are our allies in the region. The Latvian diplomatic service must work to ensure that the NATO enlarged battle group led by Canada stays in Latvia for as long as necessary to deter the possible aggressor. The concepts of cyber security and hybrid threats are rightly at the forefront of the security discussions. Latvia, when developing information technology and understanding cyber security, can become an example for many countries. It should be borne in mind that Chinese software and smart devices can be used in remote intelligence, so relations with Beijing need to be made wisely, bearing in mind the risks that lie ahead. China must be mentioned not only in terms of security risks, but also in terms of values, given human rights problems. One example of these problems is the Uighur ethnic minority and the persecution of Christians. Freedom of religion is one of the essential elements of democracy. If we are talking about the strategic autonomy of the European Union, NATO has proved itself as a safe alliance, because no non-NATO country has dared to start hostilities against the North Atlantic Alliance. The new Conservatives argue that there is no need to change what works well. The weakening of transatlantic ties is one of the objectives of today's official Russia. The more effective it is to prevent Russia from being aggressive and destructive, we can only speak with the United States and the European states in one voice. At the same time, cooperation between NATO and the European Union on the prevention of hybrid threats and the improvement of European ports, roads, railways and bridges for military cargo flows should this need arise. The report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs recalls that the European Union is like a union of values. That is something that we can agree to. It must also be pointed out that there is a need for European unity in terms of values, and there is a problem that has become particularly acute in recent years. That is to say, representatives of the liberal political opinion on the left of Europe are increasing their view as the only right one, defining what European values are and excluding them from a conservative view of the family and other issues of public interest. We call for tolerance to be shown to conservative values, which have nothing to do with authoritarianism and populism, and which are important for major changes in Europeans. Countries with a conservative view supported by the majority of society should not be excluded from Europe's political life. Such a position, which monopolises the right to define what is European and ignores the views of a large number of European citizens, can lead not to European unity but to division. The new Conservatives stand for the European Union as a union of emerging countries and do not support the move towards the non-diversity of nations. This is what most of Latvia's citizens think, and it must also be visible in Latvia's foreign policy. The neighbourhood policy was set out in the European Union's Eastern Partnership Cooperation Programme as an objective and this cooperation programme was intended to contribute to the development of the rule of law, democracy and the market economy in the neighbouring countries. A democratic, prosperous and secure country in Europe's neighbours is indeed in the interests of Europeans, but it must be recognised that the European Union's policy towards its neighbours has not really achieved its objectives in the south and east. The European Union's indecisive policy in the Eastern Partnership countries creates favourable conditions for Russia's strategic influence in the region, including Belarus and Armenia. Latvia has a moral obligation not to allow our allies to forget that Russia controls part of Georgia's territory illegally, that Russia's involvement still prevents the Moldovan Government from managing its entire territory. Latvia as a small country is particularly interested in settling disputes on the international stage, not by force, but on the basis of norms of international law. The European Union must therefore continue sanctions against Russian officials for the illegal annexation of Crimea and for the war in Donbass. Vladimir Putin's authoritarian regime continues to show total disrespect for the rule of law and human rights. Latvia must stand up for the continuation of the sanctions regime in relation to Russia's aggression against Ukraine and the introduction of new, more effective sanctions in relation to the poison and arrest of politician Alexey Navalny. Russia must continue to be subjected to strategic patience and, given that the state ruled by Putin is a source of insecurity at both regional and global level, we must try to maintain relations. The involvement of associations in Latvian public diplomacy is positive. This is in line with today's understanding of new political diplomacy, in which non-governmental organisations participate in communication. However, the promotion of Latvia's image and the impact of foreign public opinion on the achievement of Latvia's foreign policy objectives is left largely in self-flow without sufficient coordination and involvement of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At present, the implementation or non-implementation of public diplomacy depends more on the initiative of each individual member of the diplomatic mission than on a centrally designed and managed strategic plan for public diplomacy. The image and reputation of the state outside the borders are also important factors for attracting investment. It could not be said that Latvia has succeeded glamorously in this regard. I have to think about how to improve cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Investment and Development Agency of Latvia. It is important that the strategic vision of the new country's image include not only the vision of attracting investment in tourism, exports, but also the goal of foreign policy and security. It can be noted that overall... In conclusion, we would like to note that in Latvia as a whole, foreign policy is implemented well. The most important weakness of Latvia's foreign policy in recent years is the lack of activity at the level of bilateral relations. The strategic choice of accession to NATO and to the European Union in the 1990s has produced the expected results. NATO with the decisions of the Wales and Warsaw Summit after the Russian aggression against Ukraine has proved to be a new security alliance capable of adapting to the new threats, which currently has no theoretical or practical substitute for Latvia's security. Therefore, Latvia must continue to stand up for strengthening transatlantic links. The European Union's next multiannual budget offers additional opportunities for Latvia's economic growth. Its achievement depends on each one of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U30	Thank you, Mrs Mednes. We are continuing the debate with the political groups. Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U31	Dear Members of the Saeima! Ministers! Excellency! On behalf of the Group of the National Alliance, I would like to thank the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for its annual report on foreign affairs. We do not see any major contradictions there. I would also like to point out that last year was a major challenge for the Latvian Foreign Service, which had to help many compatriots return to their homeland. Not yet official data have been published, but Latvia is likely to have achieved a positive net migration in 2020. I would like to thank the embassies, consulates, our Diaspora - all those who helped Latvian citizens to return to Latvia at a difficult time. A year ago, at the end of the foreign policy debate, I said: "China is the focus today. We wish that China succeeds in overcoming this virus epidemic, which has already led to the first city being completely closed and others being able to follow." Many did not pay attention to this event at the time. Others long after the virus spread, they insisted that it was not dangerous. A year later, we can see that this virus has affected the whole world. States have put in place epidemiological safety measures. In many places, work, education, and social life are not what it was a year ago. We must recognise that the virus would never have been able to spread so rapidly and widely if border controls had been maintained and controlled international migration had been carried out. In Latvia, the Covid-19 virus and the dangerous variants of this virus also initially came through uncontrolled migration. Uncontrolled migration at any time can pose a security threat. This is the way in which terrorists, criminals, dirty money, dangerous goods and other, more dangerous diseases can enter the country. Therefore, we need to think about future mechanisms to mitigate this threat. It seems to people that everything will develop linearly, but it never happens. A few years ago, globalisation seemed to be a constant status quo, but in 2020 we see what is happening if globalisation chains are broken. Suddenly the world became much more local, digital and remote. Issues such as border security, protectionism and the decline and control of international migration returned to the agenda. Although the methods used to stop the virus were similar in all countries around the world, - especially at the beginning of the pandemic - the model of action was adopted, “everyone on its own”. There are things that can be commended to the European Union for taking active action in overcoming the crisis, but with the challenges of the medical system, in fact, each country had to deal with itself. Last year, confrontations between countries, countries and international corporations, trade wars between China and the US, and dispute over suspension of Nord Stream 2 project have also increased. On the other hand, in the case of Nagorno-Karabakh, confrontation grew into real warfare. In these turbulent times, Latvia is interested in ensuring that there are no conflicts among NATO countries, but there is a consensus in the field of security. The Covid-19 crisis is a geo-economic crisis that highlights the interdependence of the economy, health, technology, people and cultural systems. The pandemic caused a profound shock to the world economy, threatening to bring back the progress that has been made in the decades-long globalisation process for several years. The world's largest economies are forced to partially cease their activities in order to limit the spread of the virus and to prevent possible overheating and collapse of the health care system. The negative impact of the pandemic on the global economy is clearly evident in terms of figures, unemployment rates, increasing credit default rates, volatile oil and share prices, global supply chain disruptions, plant and business restrictions. In addition to economic recovery, we should at least work at European Union level to strengthen our economic resilience by ensuring that the weaknesses of the economic system are addressed by the pandemic. This includes the reorientation of global supply chains (especially in critical areas), the development of supplies of medicines and equipment, as well as targeted work to reduce their economic dependence on more unpredictable trading partners. In general, it must be concluded that the European Union's action has been active and timely in order to provide financial support to the Member States. The pandemic did not remove national responsibilities, as health and safety are primarily national exclusive competences. The crisis put national sovereignty at the forefront, also reminding of the "added value" of national states (for those who may have forgotten it). Dear colleagues, Humanity has changed - in many cases physical communication is replaced by digital communication. The e-Saami is just one of these examples, but there are many examples of digital innovation. It is possible for a country to work even more effectively in the interests of its citizens. For example, if the family is forced to move abroad for a year, then why should the children of this family stop training at an educational institution in Latvia? A year ago, this issue seemed absurd, but now we see that all this is possible if the laws were properly arranged. Students can also continue to study at higher education institutions in Latvia, either physically in their home country or outside Latvia. The pandemic pressure has improved access to education. There is a need to look for ways to maintain this positive experience in the long term. Latvia can become the world leader in digital innovation. We have all the preconditions for this. The responsible ministries of the sectors are ready to work to solve problems that hinder even faster digital development of Latvia. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the creators of the Latvian image will have a great challenge – to tell the rest of the world that Latvia is one of the digital centers of the world. Colleagues! With the increase in the role of digitalisation and the digital environment, there are justified concerns about the safety of this environment and the reliability of information. All this comes to the point that attempts are being made to block accounts, websites, servers and Internet connections. Such methods will make it difficult to combat disinformation in the internet environment and, at the same time, to preserve freedom of expression. In many cases, understanding the truth will differ between two nations, two religions or two social groups. It would be very negative that someone at a global level would have the power to control who is and what is not true. At the same time, it must be recognised that the risks and damage caused by disinformation are enormous and have a toxic and sanctifying effect on society, which leads to the loss of confidence in the legitimate... countries and institutions. With the development of artificial intelligence and automation it will not be possible to halt the creation of new profiles of Internet sites and social networks. These profiles can be produced mass by one person. When these systems are activated, they will create original disinformation in a mass... content. Instead... We should pay more attention, not to combat these websites and profiles, but to ensure that everyone is able to make sure that the profiles of websites and social networks are authentic; this would serve both as a guarantee of trust and as a liability mechanism that could prevent many people from disseminating disinformation. The concerns of national governments are understandable because they lose a monopoly on the information that their citizens consume. The information space is beyond any limits and whatever information is consumed is no longer dependent on a narrow group of information holders and controllers. This, in turn, has led to widespread unrest in a number of countries around the world - unrest, which can lead to systemic or ideological... political change. This is well understood by countries in the east of Latvia. They don't try to convince protestors, but scare protesters with physical power, which often goes beyond the limits of any reason. Latvia does not interfere in the internal affairs of another country, but condemns such violence and always opposes the restriction of human rights. We can only remind our neighbours that targeted violence against our people inevitably leads to... early or late, reaching a critical mass, leading to the drop of these regimes or heads of state. To the end...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U32	Mr. Dombrava, I am sorry. Your speaking time is over. Should the times of debate be combined?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U33	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U34	Yes, your times are united. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U35	Finally, I would like to point out that the world is trying to stop the spread of the virus, but the real war is taking place in the minds of the people. Because of the new circumstances, fear, anger, and hatred are now victorious, as simple and common as a different opinion, making it a reason to regard the other as an enemy. But it is this polarisation, the division of tribes, that is the real enemy that should be fought against in order to prevent wars and victims at physical level. I wish that everyone succeeds "to bring sorrow under the stone", preventing division and sensationalism from overcoming our country, including our world, and turning it into ignorance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U36	Thank you, Mr. Dombrava. We conclude the debate with Member Viktoras Valaini. Please! ( Pause) I'm sorry, Mr. Valaiņš, we can't hear you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U37	Do you hear and see me now?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U38	Yeah, it's okay. Thank you. Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U39	Dear Head of the sitting, do you hear and see me now?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U40	Thank you. Very good. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U41	Thank you. Highly honored Head of the sitting! The Union of Greens/Farmers supports and has never turned away from the common foreign policy course of the country. And we are truly proud that Zigfried Anna Meierovics, our member of the Latvian Farmers' Union, started it, and we have been continuing this course in foreign and domestic policy for more than a hundred years. We have done so, both by leading governments and participating in governments and by strengthening NATO and the European Union. The foreign policy debate calls for the most important, and that is what I am going to do today. The main point, in our group's view, is that this report is somewhat incomplete. And that is not enough precisely because it talks too little about the most important thing - the reduction of the Covid-19 crisis, namely how we, as Latvia and as the European Union, will overcome this crisis. At the moment, we see that Israel, Canada, the United States and the United Kingdom are the leaders in the fight against vaccination, and only then is the European Union following. And unfortunately, Latvia, also in the context of the European Union, is far behind (in order not to say much more harshly). Now, our fight with... The introduction of vaccination measures is very, very weak. And, in our view, the foreign service has a greater role to play in this problem, and it is the foreign service... and jointly to the European Union... must be much more actively involved, as is currently the case... because we see the figures, the figures themselves tell us how we all go with this problem. And this, in our view, is the most important thing, without the resolution of any of the good things mentioned in this foreign report, will have a very bad result in the context of both Latvia and the European Union. At the same time... We have also heard clearly today, in the Foreign Minister's speech, these amounts of investment that will flow in Latvia. However, it is important to emphasise that these investments in Latvia should be invested effectively! And that does not depend solely on us, on how we plan it; it also depends on how the European Union will allow us to invest this investment, and on how it will link it with the common rate of the European Union. And in this respect, I would call on the Foreign Service to work as hard as possible to prove and justify Latvia's specific situation in certain areas of investment, so that investments are, by their very nature, correct so that they serve the growth of Latvia's economy, and not just grumblely look on paper, as has happened in the past. Of course, the Foreign Service and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as Latvia as a whole, must think about how our economies are developing. At the moment, we see a very damaging situation in the Latvian economy in the area of transit business - a decrease in cargo flow is taking place. Of course, all this is also happening in the political context and we need to think about how to diversify these cargoes and how to help our entrepreneurs... take care that this area stops going down. This solution is not just in the hands of businessmen; it is a very big political issue... how we deal with it. You can outline just one direction - the direction of Ukraine. In order to get more cargoes from Ukraine to transit through Latvia, more political involvement and cooperation is needed. And so we can also talk about other directions to replace those loads that we have already lost. In addition... from this foreign report... I would like to address the issue of digital tax, which we, as a group, have also paid very great attention. And although this report mentions that it must be European... for a single solution... On this basis, the Greens/Farmers' Union's proposal for the introduction of a digital tax has been rejected twice by the Saeima in some way as well... We are still seeing how these multinational companies in Latvia withdraw money from our own advertisers, our own journalists, our own entrepreneurs working in this area, where large companies are, of course, competing for them. And it must be made clear not only that we in the European Union are going to think in the future about how to jointly introduce this digital tax, but also how: if this does not happen in the common vision of the European Union, then Latvia has... Latvia will start and introduce this tax itself, because continuing to postpone this problem from year to year is not right in our view. Of course, I would also like to quote some things from the report. For example, on page 27, where we are talking about reforming our financial system and strengthening it... It is clearly stated here that Latvia has become the first Moneyval Member State whose regulatory framework meets all international standards. Very good record! However, we must take care and make it very clear to all countries that it cannot be that we are the only ones who respect these principles, because our economies have suffered a great deal. At the same time... we see clearly where these businesses remain - they remain right here in the European Union... or outside the European Union... and there are still many countries that do not respect such principles. And then the question arises: why should we create these solutions only in Latvia, if we then suffer from our economy and we suffer from it internationally, we suffer from our international competitiveness? Colleagues! From this report... I would also like to highlight that one of the responsibilities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is to protect the sovereignty of Latvia's interests internationally, which also means to stand up for international principles of law, a global facility based on these principles. And here I would like to mention one thing: if we write such a mission, it is very important that we also respect such principles in Latvia, at home. And here I would like to mention one international document - the European Charter of Local Authorities - which Latvia has ratified in its legislation, but... At the moment, at the time when the case on municipal reform is being examined in the Constitutional Court, it is clearly mentioned from the State... consider whether this should be taken into account, or whether it is just a recommendation, that the European Congress of Local Authorities has clearly and unequivocally told Latvia that this reform should be abolished, that this reform should be redrafted and re-made, in accordance with the principles of the European Charter for Local Authorities. European international experts, guardians of the Charter, have made it clear that Latvia has not complied with them. That's why... The fact that we are writing such records in our strategy is right, but it is equally important to keep these records. And finally, colleagues, again. Vaccination plan in Latvia, vaccination plan in the European Union. The figures show and show that we are far behind other leaders who are very successful in implementing these plans. We must learn together from those who do the best, and also from the foreign service... This should be a general priority and the most important task for next year, so that we can restore our economy and return to normal life as soon as possible, to which we were accustomed... who was at the beginning of the pandemic. And that cannot be just one field of responsibility of the minister. It is also one of the most important tasks of the entire foreign service - to resolve this issue, not only here, internally, but also to do everything possible to make these vaccines available to us and to enable us to vaccinate those who need it and all those who want it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U42	Thank you, Mr. Valains. We are continuing the debate. The name of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Pabrik... I'm sorry, Minister of Defence, Mr Pabrik. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U43	Thank you. Dear Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! We are used to the fact that the Ministry of Defence is also somewhat like such a small foreign ministry. And that's why it's a great honour for me to take part in this debate, because with many of these projects and Latvia's recognition in the international environment... at our abilities and our success... we worked hand in hand and shoulder to shoulder with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This year we celebrate the centenary of Latvia's diplomatic recognition, and I must also remind you once again that this recognition was possible to a large extent only because the Latvian people, the Latvian armed nation, the Latvian army, with their furrows were able to protect Latvia's national territory, Latvia's borders and show the international community and the world's dominant countries that we, Latvia, are here to stay and that Latvia is not the only day. Similar to what happens in many other parts of the world: if the country has no convincing arguments, then with one diplomacy, there will be too little with one speech. Latvian army doors will always support Latvian diplomats and the Latvian Foreign Service. Just like the experience of other countries. For example, in the same Finland in 1939, the Finnish people and the Finnish army were able to protect their independence and retain international recognition and remain in no way. I would like to draw the honourable Saeima's attention to what we are currently living in, what these threats are and what we believe should be done from the point of view of the defence sector in today's foreign policy debate. If we look at the international environment, we can see that it is, unfortunately, becoming more fragmented every year, more polarised every year; identity struggles are taking place both between regions and within countries themselves. This means that the idea of the unity of society, the common moral standard, the common standard of values are being called into question more and more. Of course, it also makes international work much more difficult for our diplomats, it also makes it more difficult to ensure our security... Ensuring our security as a national state, and we also see that many international organisations in which we are represented and on which we have relied for decades are slowly losing their influence. What can we do here from the defence sector's point of view so that we can be stronger in the international field and help our diplomats? And the answer lies in two directions. The first is to continue to strengthen the National Armed Forces. The second is to continue to strengthen Latvia's economy and internal power, because foreign policy accounts for those who can, and not those who ask. In this respect... I would like to say that quite a lot has been done to strengthen the National Armed Forces, to strengthen Latvia's defence capabilities, and to a large extent thanks to the joint support of the Saeima. I am grateful that here, the opposition and position were a very important thing when we introduced national defence training, which is an integral part of the comprehensive national defence system. Go on. I can also say that the Ministry of Defence of Latvia has paid very much attention to what is essential in this challenging, polarised and fragmented world today. That means - logistics lines, delivery lines, resources that we would need here... Because this same pandemic showed that when we had to share with masks or other means of protection - then suddenly all the beautiful talks about the common market in the European Union, about the open world, about the possibility to buy and produce where it is cheaper collapsed as a house of cards, because those countries that talked most about common things and common values in the European Union were, unfortunately, the first to close the borders, the first to ban the export of these strategic goods even to the neighbour... Member States of the European Union. So today even... there is a conversation in our government about, for example, the storage of fuel reserves. I am very disappointed that my talks with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Economics have not been successful, and we have still not achieved that at least 75 per cent of the necessary fuel reserves are kept on Latvia's territory, let alone 100 per cent, which I have insisted on for the last nine months. I think it's a scandal. Go on. If we are talking about supply lines, we must also pay serious attention to the food supply line, because here too, if we get into a crisis, we will not be able to rely on imports, we will not be able to count on and guarantee that the borders will be open, so I have also asked and ordered serious work with Latvian producers and traders of goods, especially in the food sector. The Ministry of Defence has also contributed very much to the development of industries. Of course, first and foremost, thinking about those industries that have a connection with Latvia's security, with Latvia's defence, which means that we are working hard, for example, on modern technologies such as drone production. We are the first in Europe to introduce a test site in the military base of Adazi with a system of 5G, which would allow us to combine many different technologies and allow our innovators, our industry to work together with our universities, our scientists and promote not only Latvia's defence, promote not only the provision of the National Armed Forces, but also Latvia's economic growth, promote Latvia's exports and create new jobs. But, of course, the Ministry of Defence cannot be a ministry responsible for all sectors. We are working within our own framework, we support industries with which we can find a common language, but we hope for a greater understanding of these objectives also through cooperation between other ministries and governments. It is not that nothing has been done - a lot has been done, but we need to understand that in this fragmented, fragmented, polarised world, we cannot always rely on someone who will guarantee us this security. We cannot say that NATO will come and save us if there is a crisis situation. Of course, NATO will help us, of course, our allies, the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, many, many other countries will help us, but, just as a hundred years ago, as in the Finnish Freedom War against the Soviet Union in 1939, in the Winter War, they will only be able to help us if they see our will, if they see our abilities and understand that we are not only the petitioners, but we are able and want to defend our independence, our economy, that we are working on deliveries, we are working on everything to make our country stronger. It is also one of the main challenges of our foreign policy: to show how strong we are, to show that we can, to demand what we are due to, and then to increase our influence in the wider world. Because our influence in the wider world, in the global world, in foreign policy depends very much on our success here in Latvia, here on the ground - how we will be able to develop our economy, production, provision and, yes, also our armed forces. No country has ever been able to exist for a long time unless it has been able to provide its own soldier, its own guard, its new guard, any of us. And our defence capabilities also depend on it - not only on our will, but also on the master, our knowledge of what security means. Therefore, once again, thanks to the Saeima for having this practically unanimous support for national defence training, because here we will educate our citizens, our young citizens, we will socialise them in the new patriotic community of Latvia, and they will have both a desire to defend our freedom, democracy, our national state and their ability to do so, because the will without ability is also an empty air and is often too little. I wish good luck, I wish all of us to be ambitious and capable, and not only to the petitioners who rely on the abilities of others, to the will of others! Thank you for this opportunity to take part in the debate, and good luck for the Latvian Parliament! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U44	Thank you to the Minister for Defence for his participation in this debate. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Oyars Eriks Kalniņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U45	Thank you. Please bring together the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U46	The times of your debate are united. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U47	Dear President, Madam President, Ministers! Excellency! In my opinion, the foreign policy report of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs accurately describes the current situation in the world and leads us to one conclusion: Latvia's existence and development are in our hands, but not only. Our national interests are based on desires that can only be achieved in a world where there is international order, legality and cooperation. Although this may sound ironic, Latvia's independence depends on others we have to live with. And this is only possible if there is some international order. If in 1918 there had been no international order and organization that followed this order, there would have been no Latvia today. If Latvia's foreign policy aims to ensure our sovereignty, strengthen security and promote prosperity, then our foreign policy needs to focus on a multilateral world and support international solutions. There is a saying: “Think globally, but act locally,” but our local action is directly related to international circumstances. This applies not only to Riga, but also to Liepaja, Rezekne and Jelgava. Because everyone feels the results we achieve in foreign policy. Each citizen gets opportunities to improve their living conditions and develop thanks to Latvia's economic, trade, political and cultural ties with other countries. In order to promote this, we are building not only bilateral relations with other countries, but also strengthening these relations through international organisations such as the United Nations, the European Union, NATO and others. Looking at international challenges in 2021, we need to pay particular attention to these three organisations. The Covid crisis is a strong reminder that Latvia's biggest security threat is on a global scale. Pandemics, climate disasters, exceptional flows of refugees, terrorism and cyber threats are global problems that arrive early or late in Latvia. These are international challenges that require international solutions. Active and skilled activities of Latvia in these organizations are necessary if we want to ensure the implementation and protection of the interests of Latvian citizens. The United Nations is particularly important for Latvia, because we want to join the Security Council in 2026. It is not only in Latvia's interest, it is strategically important for our entire region, because from 2026 to 2027 Latvia will be the only representative of the Baltic and Nordic region in the UN Security Council. We will speak on behalf of the whole region. It has great diplomatic, political and symbolic significance for Latvia's prestige. The campaign to get the necessary votes has already started and will increase in a targeted manner in 2021. The Saeima must work with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to obtain the necessary votes and achieve this goal. As Members of the Saeima, we should use our participation in parliamentary assemblies to address our colleagues and support Latvia's candidacy. Over the last year, the European Union's biggest challenges have been the community, the Breccia and the remoteness of the Trampa administration from traditional transatlantic relations. We do not yet know about the development of the community, we have a little more clarity about the bruxitis, and with the United States, we finally have new hopes that transatlantic ties will be renewed and strengthened. The European Union was not prepared for the Covide crisis because the European Union body was not ready for it. It's happening now. The European Union's recovery and resilience mechanism is one solution. Britain is expected to suffer from the bruxitis, but we do not know how much it will affect Europe and how it will affect Europe. The European Union seems to have secured its position, but there are many signs of the issue in the future of Britain, particularly in Scotland and Northern Ireland. After the community and the bruxita, I believe that one of the most important challenges facing our foreign policy in 2021 is to help NATO and the European Union restore strong transatlantic ties with the United States. Although NATO and the European Union have other objectives, they share common interests and values. There are more than 74 cooperation projects where NATO and the European Union strengthen each other. Despite the controversial rhetoric of former President Trump about NATO, it has responded successfully and has become stronger. Latvia's bilateral relations with the US are better than ever, and US support for our Baltic region continues to increase. We must extend this support to all the Member States of the European Union. Thus, Latvian diplomats in Washington have a double load - not only to promote our bilateral relations between Latvia and the US, but also to defend the interests of the European Union at the same time. Any positive changes in relations between the US and the European Union benefit Latvia. In my opinion, Latvia must use our good relations with the US to promote and defend the interests of the European Union as a whole. We need to work with the US Congress, American institutions, organisations and the media to restore trust and cooperation between the US and Europe. When we talk to the Americans about Latvia, we need to talk about Europe. We must congratulate and support the US' return to international organisations and treaties. This year, if the communion crisis goes down and travel is allowed, one of our priority objectives is to return as parliamentarians in Washington, together with Estonian and Lithuanian colleagues. It would be even better if such visits were to take place at NB8. 30 years ago, the Nordic countries strengthened their Baltic relations with the US, and today we can provide such support to our European Union partners. At the same time, our support for the Three Seas initiative not only promotes north-south cooperation in the energy, transport and digital communication sectors, it also attracts interest and support from the US. Latvia's relations with Russia are based on the common foreign policy principles of the European Union and national interests of the country. Here, too, the role of the United States is important, because we hope to maintain diplomatic pressure on Russia in order not to recognise the annexation of Crimea and to stop Russia's aggression in eastern Ukraine. The same applies to our support for Russian human rights defenders, free press and public activists like Alexei Navalny. Finally, we must continue to strengthen and support our Diaspora, as it can also contribute to Latvia's foreign policy interests. Today's Latvians can support Latvia's political and economic interests from any part of the world. We are all global Latvians if we are in contact with the world. Every Latvian and patriotic person can promote and enrich our culture. We live in a globalised world where our compatriots have huge potential to help Latvia defend our national interests. With the Diaspora Law, the Diaspora Advisory Council and the plan for working with the Diaspora in 2021-2023, we have a strong basis for developing this cooperation. The Communion crisis has also strengthened this cooperation through social networks and new networking and information exchange platforms. Before the community, the Latvian Diaspora had already developed its opportunities to communicate and participate in Latvian processes in a remote way. Now we are doing all this on both sides. Thirty years ago Latvia ensured its independence, travel barricades, but barricades can only protect the people for a short time. Today we have replaced its concrete and wood barricades with foreign policy instruments - diplomacy, dialogue and participation, membership of NATO, the European Union and other multilateral organisations, participation in international discussions and treaties, and participation in global processes. Those who participate will exist. Thank you to the Foreign Minister and all our diplomats for your successful participation in defending Latvia's interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U48	Thank you. Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen! It's time for a break. Members... ( The sound is broken.) ( Pause) Registration is over. We're meeting after a break. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. Thank you for the debate. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U49	Dear Members, Honourable Members! Everyone here! We are continuing to discuss today's agenda for the Saeima. The agenda is the annual report by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the work done and planned in the country's foreign policy and the European Union. We are continuing the debate. The next debate is by Member Atis Lejiņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U50	Thank you. Do you hear me? Hello!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U51	Yes, Mr. Leiens, we can hear you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U52	Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U53	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U54	Thank you. Excellency! Colleagues! It is 2021. At foreign policy level, it began with a dark cloud, the events of 6 January in the United States. The powder's invasion of the citadel of world's oldest democracy has been a blow to democracy all over the world, but it is not caused by a hybrid war of external power or enemy. This was caused by the President of the United States in power. Does this mean that the United States is approaching authoritarianism in its cycle of development? As was the case in Europe before the Second World War, and which is also characteristic of South America. Baden has won, but it turns out that there are millions of citizens in the United States who believed and continue to believe that the elections were not fair, that Trump was stolen. Among them are our compatriots, who should have been taught to distinguish between democratic elections and false elections. There are similar thinking here in Latvia. Already, Hitler’s propaganda minister, Gebels, taught that people would not believe small lies; they would only believe large lies. Stalin made it happen, and Putin is not far away from him. And the American President Trump turned to this teaching during the elections and rocked America to its very foundations. It will also give an impression on the challenges of Latvia's security and foreign policy in the future. Our primary interests are that the victory of democracy in the US is permanent. We cannot be defended in the long term by authoritarians in the United States. However, only America itself is one that can restore confidence in the basis of state democracy - free and fair elections. If this task is not dealt with by the Baden Government, then in four years, as you say, everything will be possible. Our security, even our independence, could then be compromised. America has been a symbol of freedom and democracy in the world. Its values guarantee our security and the avoidance of interference in authoritarianism. This leads to the objective of strengthening transatlantic relations, and their reconstruction will not be enough only with good will on both sides. The world has changed. A pandemic, unbridled globalism, ever-increasing climate change and China's big issue are the catalysts in international relations that have changed world order. The European Union and the US must find a common language to address these basic challenges. First. NATO... I only address four blocks of questions... First. The future development of NATO is a challenge for us, for Europe as a whole and also for America as a whole. The new NATO 2030 strategic plan, but here it should be remembered that Germany has always been a central place in Europe's security and will remain so in the future. The US armed forces must remain in Germany and go hand in hand with increased US troops in the Baltic States, Poland and Romania. Secondly. The pandemic has shown that globalism, such as has existed so far, needs to be fundamentally changed. Only the US and Europe together can do this. How costly it was when both sides could not start the production of breathing equipment quickly enough to save their sick, but only China produced it in sufficient quantities! And did the relocation of production from Europe and the US to China just because it was cheaper, not also caused unemployment, especially in the US, where millions lost their middle class status? This was not left without political consequences in the 2016 elections. The only key to their hearts must be found, and then they were willing to believe anything. Thirdly. Climate change The world is getting warmer than predicted. Pressure is rising... pressure from illegal immigrants on the US and Europe. Yesterday... Yesterday the global warming became an American, an issue of the Washington National Security Strategy, but it can be seen that the new green technologies are already causing competition. Who will be the first to blow the biggest science and technology laurels? Who will get more jobs, who - the biggest profit, the greatest prestige, in the end - has a political impact? The competition will be paced between the US, the European Union and China. Our priority is that the European Union, which is now lagging behind, should not lag behind in this race, so that Latvia does not lag behind. Should we not establish a similar body, such as the vaccination office, just established to be able to maximise the resources available to our science offered by the European Recovery Fund? Fourth. In the end. What about Big Tech Monopoly? How can democratic countries react to the enormous influence of social networks in society? Split in pieces? That is the problem now. We saw President Tramps using the Twitter for his own sake, he actually replaced his own government by setting a agenda in America every day. This opportunity was closed only after the dramatic events of January 6 in the United States, but this was done by the Twitter, the Twitter itself. For example, Merkel did not really agree with this... Of course, she had already agreed, but she felt that there should be a democratically-accepted law that provided for such an opportunity. Social networks must not rule themselves. It is clear that both the US and Europe are facing a dilemma here, how to protect freedom of expression from crowding up and lies. The Chinese and Russian solutions are not ours. Now go to Google, which has begun teaching Australia how to live. The Foreign Minister and others have already said everything. I'd like to finish... to also say that, on this issue, the United States and the European Union still need to find a common solution. Thank you to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, its diplomats. Thank you to the Latvian Institute for Foreign Affairs, which started this debate a few days ago. And thank you for your attention. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U55	Thank you. The next word is for Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U56	Hello, colleagues! I hope that everyone is well served and ready for work. So that you do not sleep out of this exciting debate after lunch, I will try to develop a new dimension in them. And that's what we hear here is yesterday's challenges. It is very convenient to talk about them, because they are all known long ago as possible solutions for different scenarios. It gives you the opportunity to demonstrate yourself as an expert in a safe way, recounting it to each other. I would like to ask you to think about tomorrow's challenges, about what many are not yet aware of, which seems to many to be either a distant or an unrealistic future. However, these challenges are, in fact, much closer than they seem to be, and their impact can be so significant that a large part of the existing challenges that we like discussing so hotly on the background of the tsunami will look like small toy boats. No exaggeration. Even if this ship is as large and powerful as an aviation base ship. I am thinking here of the challenges that await us in relation to the new technological opportunities and their ever-increasing use. We have come to live in an age where fundamental technological changes are taking place not only in the economy, but also in people's relations, and also that the surrounding world can interact and influence us. It will not only change the way the world's economic model functions, it will also change the place and role of countries and people in these processes, it will change people themselves. And that's all going on. With these technological opportunities on our civilisation stage, a new, non-existent phenomenon - artificial intelligence has appeared. Yes, at the moment, it is still in children's nappies, but it has been created and is developing rapidly. Even while still in children’s nappies, it is already able to beat people in many ways without leaving people with the slightest competition opportunities in certain aspects. In the foreseeable future, we will see things that we considered to be an incredible fiction until recently. And imagine all these fantastic possibilities will be at the disposal of someone. Someone will be able to use them and manipulate them. These manipulations can be in all sorts of ways and filled with a wide range of purposes, whether they bring benefits and benefits to society, or they can hurt it and cause unprecedented damage. We are already seeing visible examples of this possibility of manipulation. Unfortunately, we are too small for them to be prepared properly and, if necessary, to have a bearing on their impact. However, we can do this together, for example within the European Union. That is why I see it as one of the most important tasks of our foreign policy: to try to bring it on the European agenda. First of all, if Europe is to properly identify these future challenges, agree on possible solutions and start to prepare them so that, if necessary, we have instruments with which to neutralise these challenges or at least to minimise their impact to a level that is acceptable to us. Just like now with regard to the communion disease, when we look forward to achieving this with the possibility of vaccination. Unfortunately, as we can see, because Europe is not technologically ready to meet this challenge itself, we are forced to rely on the help that others will or will not choose to give us and how they choose it and not what we need it. I specifically mentioned this example of vaccines, because biotechnology is one of the areas that form the technological basis of the future economy. Scientists still argue about whether or not this virus could have been of artificial origin, but it is certain that one of the future viruses will have been created artificially. And it will come to us, and when it happens, it would be very important that, this time, we are prepared to face up to this challenge, which is likely to be even more serious than this community's disease. The Rules of Procedure leave no time for me to explain and prove to those who do not believe that this is an inevitable challenge that we will have to face. So I will take another example of the very obvious future challenge. This is related to another area of the new technology revolution, to information technology, to the ever-greater and deeper digitisation of our lives. Undoubtedly, it opens up many new opportunities, and it can bring many benefits, but it also raises challenges. I would mark one of those. To illustrate, I will take a certain example of the fact that Donald Tramp has been thrown out of the social networks. The world’s most powerful leader was simply taken and thrown away. Many will say, “Yes, he also needed.” But that's not what we're talking about now. This time, it is not the content that matters, but the framework that has happened. How was this done? Ignoring the legal framework of the world's most powerful country with regard to one of its fundamental values - the human right to freedom of expression. What is the significance of this event, and what does it worth to reflect on? It marks one of the major challenges ahead, which can fundamentally change the current world order. This is about conflict of national interests and values with global technology companies and their values. Do not give in to hope. This conflict is obviously inevitable, because national values and interests have formed and are based on consensus reached by society or at least majority acceptance, while the interests of technology companies, as it is not difficult to understand, are formed in a completely different way. In this example, Trump was denied only human virtual socialisation, which is relatively nothing. But imagine now the future, when more and more areas of human life will be digitised and their realisation will depend on these digital tools, those who drive it, on the conditions to be determined and regulated by these global technology companies according to their own principles, rather than by national states with their own legislation and value system. Easily understood, for example. Trade is one of the areas where digitalisation will take on the fastest. Soon we will not go to supermarkets to choose the right goods for ourselves, but let us bake them on our tablet or computer. And if, when shopping in a supermarket, it had to comply with the requirements of national legislation on marketing conditions, the quality of the goods, their composition, such as the presence of GMOs and so on, then the rules of the game will now be created by the owner of this digital tool. And if we cannot influence it, we will either accept it or be excluded from using these tools. As we can see, so far, countries are not quite successful in defending their interests with global technology companies. This can be seen from the negotiations on the introduction of a digital tax. That's to say, getting out of technology companies... development of technology companies for themselves. It is not hard to imagine how productive this dialogue with technology companies will be when we get even deeper depending on them. And that's going to happen insanely. However, following on from the same pattern of trade. Many trading platforms already foresee that it is possible to settle them not directly, but through the credit that you first form on this platform, and then it is settled. In essence, it is one step to a new currency; only this credit is left to be named in other units of measurement. And you're already settled in this system, not in euros or dollars, but, let's say, libros. At some point our dependence on the opportunities offered by these technology companies will increase so much that we will not leave anything other than to accept the further conditions of their games, for example, to settle in the currency of any other sovereign country, but in the company's creation. Simply, with the excitement and lack of control over the process of digital transformation of national economies, we can come to a situation where national countries can lose not only their national currencies, but also even more significant opportunities, for example, by continuing the same line, to lose the opportunity to shape and define their monetary policy, because the movement of national currencies will become ever less important in the economy. Consequently, monetary policy will not be conducted by states according to their national interests, but by those who control digital tools, taking their interests into account and establishing appropriate enforcement algorithms. Digitisation will open up almost unlimited possibilities for manipulation in many areas of national interest and will open up control opportunities and manipulations in other areas as well. By following the example that has already been set up, based on the information you will be able to obtain about you from a wide range of digital tools, creating your digital double, to guide and determine your next steps, you will be able to determine the specific digital exchange rate that will apply to you, to what extent you will be able to buy it, and to what limits will be placed on its use... or even to prevent you from using it at all. As with Trump, just throw it out of the system if you are not acceptable to it, even if you are a good, lawful or even honorable citizen of your country. Your country and society's rules of law and morality will no longer be decisive, and all this is just a small part of the tsunami of the challenge that is approaching us. If you want to hear more, I am calling for my debates to be brought together and for me to continue.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U57	Mr. Zarins, the times of your debate... both are merged.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U58	Yeah. If someone here seems impossible for the future utopia, then I'll have to upset you. All this has already happened. And not once, but only in the performance of previous technologies, which did not open up such a wide range of opportunities. One such example is that of using the possibilities of higher technology... the potential of advanced technologies, which were subject to countries that had no such technological capabilities, is the result of relations between the Ostindy and South-East Asian countries. The differences are only technological: then there were ships, now there are digital platforms. Then there was opium, now - digital addiction and so on. This company started with spices, ended with slave trade. This relationship began with mutually beneficial cooperation, ended with devastating wars against countries that did not want to be at its disposal. We are now simply at that stage of relationship, when beautiful sailboats come to us as Aborigines and give us glass beads. We are happy and happy about these gifts, using those that we find to be more valuable than what we give in exchange for these gifts. One such valuable thing in which we participate - we all participate! -, is the so-called big data. It is not for nothing that they are known as oil of the 21st century. When I first heard such a comparison, it seemed to me an exaggerated paradox. Paradoxes I'm used to seeing them as a challenge to explore them, because it's only what we don't fully understand, a paradox for us. And as a result, the more I looked into the reasoning behind the statement, the older my hair became. Yes, see, thanks to the conscious and intelligent action of the Karini government, they are so long that now you can see it. Now, I'm... and as a result, it became obvious to me that, in fact, oil does not have the meaning of the big date in the future. They open up unprecedented, simply fantastic opportunities to predict and manipulate people and the whole of humanity. I will briefly set out some simple, totally innocent examples. Let us say, MasterCard, who, when analysing changes in household purchasing habits, is able to anticipate a possible separation in the family before people themselves make such a decision at all. Or another very fresh example that we have just heard. One Swiss company has developed a tool that uses... which can carry out the cordial test by telephone. Yeah, after your cough... Artificial intelligence achieves this by previously analysing a large number of cases of a variety of coughs and finding us in it these invisible relationships that point to the presence of the virus. That is, these big data make it possible to predict a person even better than that person knows himself and what happens to him. Even more - not only to anticipate your actions, but also to programme you to what is needed. For example, social unrest, which is implemented through social networking platforms. It is another serious challenge for national sovereignty if we cannot control it, put... if the State is unable to control and impose conditions on them that are in the public and public interest. At present, the examples of social manipulation that we have experienced are just those of the first Wright brothers compared to the simple cosmic possibilities that will result from these big data and the use of artificial intelligence. Europe has an understanding of the need to build strategic reserves of oil in the country, the same attitude should also be taken with regard to oil of the 21st century - data that cannot be manipulated by anyone using this resource contrary to our interests. It needs to be a joint solution for Europe (as each country cannot fight the interests of global technology companies on its own) - how we can control this resource, how we can ensure access to it, follow it and control possible manipulations of it, build our own artificial intelligence tools that will be able to provide us with it, and create our own solutions for our critical elements of digital infrastructure. Therefore, one of Latvia's foreign policy priorities should be to update the need for such a complex solution in Europe. It was supposed to be done yesterday before it was too late for Europe, when its values were not in line with the interests of global technology companies, to do the same as the political mess Tramp. I call on you to think about it and to make it one of the most important priorities of our foreign policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U59	Thank you. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U60	Hello, colleagues! I call for a joint debate, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U61	Both times of the debate are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U62	Dear President, Honourable Members! First of all, I would like to apologise for not giving up the syrupful talk about the grandiose achievements of the European Union. Therefore, I am sorry that I will focus on a few words with critical remarks to the policies of the European Union and also to the policies of the European Union. In my view, the last year in European and also global politics was still a year of hypocrisy, double-moralism, lies, violations of the rights of small countries and violations of human rights. In my opinion, the greatest and most dangerous thing that happened was the violation of freedom of expression, disguised as if by the dissemination of false news, although it must be said at once that these lies may have been in a smaller part, but the fact itself is that people's constitutional rights have been violated and we have not spoken there either in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or in the government - something that is worth noting. So a little bit about the double morals of international politics. It is very good that we took rapid sanctions not only against Russian officials but also against Belarusian officials, where human rights were violated. But for the sake of fairness, it should be recognised that Belarus has not occupied the territory of foreign countries, it has not caused almost one million refugee flows, it has not resulted in five thousand young people being killed last year in hostilities. How does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs react to this? See chapter on Geopolitika. This report says there that the escalation of conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh took place in the Southern Caucasus. Hm... What kind of conflict? We know that Azerbaijan freed its occupied territories 30 years later. For 30 years, Armenia held seven Azerbaijani districts, occupied Azerbaijani territory, and generated a refugee flow of about one million people. Two hundred thousand refugees from Armenia itself, who fled to Azerbaijan, account for about 800,000 of these Azerbaijani districts. And for 20-30 years, perhaps for 27 years, because from 1994 onwards, neither the OSCE Minsk Group nor the European Union have proposed any sanctions in this case. Yes, it is very nice that sanctions are adopted for occupying territories, say, in Crimea or in Donbass, or somewhere else, but why is such a selection of policies for this region? Thank God, this conflict is not escalated but has finally been resolved and settled in such a way... I think that not only has it been regulated, but also geopolitical security has improved, NATO has access to the Caucasus in particular, thanks to Turkey's support, which is a member of NATO. And I still do not see why our Foreign Ministry is talking about some escalation of the conflict, quite the contrary - I think the Foreign Ministry should be doing exactly more this year and proposing that the international peacekeepers who are playing a role in Russia right now... they should be exchanged with UN or OSCE peacekeepers. I think that would be a contribution already and that Latvia should participate more actively in the reconstruction of hundreds of destroyed villages and cities in Karabakh, which would help both Azerbaijani and Armenians much more. Yes, because economic prosperity and development in this region would contribute to stability throughout the Caucasus region, including in the Black Sea region of Ukraine. I would also benefit perhaps Latvian, let us say, economic development as such. Next. We are talking a lot about, of course, the European Union's development plan for 2021-2027 and funding. The European Commission has concluded agreements on the vaccination of the population. Well, here too, the Prime Minister talked about this vaccination. Just a few words. We saw yesterday that Britain was vaccinating about 500 people in one minute (some 480 or so). Thirty-three times greater than Latvia. So we're interpolating against Latvia. It would be something, I'm counting here, about 15 people per minute, 900 people per hour, or seven thousand people per day. Foolishly, Britain has left the European Union and is able to send every citizen a schedule, date and place where he or she has to arrive. All these plans have been much better prepared. And yesterday we learned that Britain was three months earlier in ordering vaccines with the same AstraZeneca than the European Commission. Three months faster! And we say that the European Union is able to organise something or to do something normally. Well, start thinking that I started to understand why the British people have left the European Union. So if we could even do the same thing in Britain, then for us 170 days the vaccination would have been completed, we could peacefully celebrate Johns absolutely without anyone infected. Instead, more than 10 000 people die a day, which I think is a complete irresponsibleness because we still have no plan. Today we have an office, but we do not have a population schedule, they have not received notifications when, where, who will vaccinate them. And I believe that this is total chaos and inaction. Next. For grandiose help, or gravel. The Minister mentioned that we would receive EUR 10.5 billion in the period up to 2027. But interesting, honourable Members! Do you know that within a year, 12 billion were lost from Latvia, which had been deposited with the Bank of Latvia? This money didn't go anywhere to the CIS, it went to Gibraltar, it went to the Isle of Man, it went to Jersey, it went to Cyprus and to other European Union countries. We're actually in a year... the financial system here. Was that necessary? Well, that's... This is a separate question about this financial matter. Latvia behaves as if its exports were going only to the Vatican in the future, maybe even to Finland, and not to the CIS countries. We behave as if Switzerland and Austria were our neighbours, not Russia and Belarus. None of us ask for this, not Moneyval... This has not been requested from us, let us say, by the European Union. Well, I'll get it. I looked at FATF's recommendations on money laundering. Paragraph 35. It says that effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions should be available against natural persons who do not comply with these requirements. Requirements related to the prevention of money laundering. We are placing a sign of equality between those who have no perfect reputation and those who are called to criminalise. You see that in all documents, both Moneyval and the European Union, it is said everywhere that there is a need to restrict... or, let's say, you can't run companies, banks, you can't sit on the boards... may not be officials called to account for criminal proceedings. It seems to me that Latvia is the only country in the world that has placed a sign of equality between those who have no perfect reputation and those who have been called criminally responsible. One example is Germany. There is no suspension of any bank account in Germany. Land banks too, there are federal banks... the federal state banks which, for example, finance the laying of pipelines in the North Sea, against which we are protesting. The pipeline belongs... well, part... The shareholder of the holding is Gazprom, whose private shareholders, in turn, are not in any way persons of good repute. Perhaps they are more likely to be people who have participated in various crime groups organised in St. Petersburg at the same time. No account is closed there in any way. There are no packages of shares confiscated for those people who own some dominant stake, as we proposed here. Well, now we have a new, updated law on the prevention of money laundering. Of course, many things we may remove and improve there, but the train has already left. As the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry now notes, the small... there are closed accounts for small businesses, very many investors from Latvia have gone away and hundreds of companies have opened accounts in Lithuania, where there is absolutely no problem with opening. That is why I ask why the Foreign Ministry is not responding to this double-moral? Why is what is permitted for Germany or what is permitted for Lithuania not allowed for Latvia? Why are we ruining our financial system? Next. The European Union, of course... and maybe we congratulate it... Much is done to protect the environment. What we now call a green course. We could only be very happy about this if we did not have various cassios. It is not clear to me why, without any discussion in Latvia, without economic calculations, without consultation with entrepreneurs, we suddenly announced that instead of reducing 40 per cent of our emissions, we had an ambitious project to reduce to 55 per cent by 2030. I have, for example, not voted in favour of such a decision, and neither has the Saeima voted, nor has we had any discussion about such a decision. Without discussions, just because they are the new commissions. The toys of the rich countries (I always warn) are different from Latvia and we are not in the first three-member group of developed countries. If we were among the first three developed countries in the European Union, we could develop all kinds of experimental projects. The United States, which is our transatlantic partner, can afford... or Germany. I looked at one interesting example. This year, the new US government announced that they would close three nuclear power plants. It turns out that these three nuclear power plants produce 41 terabyte hours of energy per year, which is more than the sun in California... solar power plants... solar power plants. So the nuclear power plant's 43, California's 41.5... last year, these California solar power plants had received 250 more subsidies and state aid than nuclear power plants. Is Latvia... Can small Latvia afford 200 times more subsidization with its economy, let us say, such projects, I do not know. We have to think very much about this. At the same time, over 30 years, we have not attracted European money to the thermal energy that is. That's what I'm... Maybe you can see, this is a map. Dark points in Lille are places of thermal energy in Latvia. So South of Liepaja and South of Jelgava, Eleja. There's one well in the Papa, and I'm doing 1.6 kilometers at a depth of 32.5 degrees Fahrenheit. Well, dear people, if we can get the whole Liepaja, we can heat the whole Jelgava with hot water, we don't have to lift a kilometre high concrete stands, that is, four wind rotor concrete stands over 250 meters, that's one kilometre. We've got one and a half miles, and we've got free energy for a hundred years. The European Union finances around 90 percent of this energy. We have not attracted Iceland, where it drills not at 1.5, but at a depth of three kilometres, which is 400 degrees or more and uses this hot steam for electricity generation. Then we don't even want to study it, even though the armed forces of the USSR had, by the way, developed a project already in the 1990s to heat their war bases with this hot water... What are we not doing... So for us, those projects somehow go cross-cutting. The last one. I may end up with a few words about human rights. Freedom of expression, I think, is one of the most sacred things, and I regret that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not proposed (as opposed to Poland) sanctions against feisbuck and tviter, who have allowed... Here we have talked about Trump, but the Twitter has, for example, cleared the National Alliance's accounts on several occasions, which did not call for violence, but for the expression of opinion. I think that's the most serious violation ever. I think that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Latvia should propose that the European Commission adopt strict penalties, as Poland does. Consequently, I call and hope that next year, foreign policy will not be a "small countries' responsibilities - the rights of the large countries", because we have finally recognised Walter's merits, which first reached before 18 November, that the chairmen of the German parliamentary groups and the Chancellor of Germany promised to recognise Latvia's independence. So let us follow Walter's saying that politics and small countries cannot exist without morality in politics. I call for moralism, no hypocrisy, and no duplication of politics. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U63	Thank you. The name to the Member is Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U64	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, Now there was an opportunity today to listen to colleagues who gave very many insights... reports on policies in other countries. But in foreign policy, the Latvian Foreign Minister... The Ministry is with the rest of the ministries, so that is the part of our government. And it is clear that foreign policy cannot be seen differently as in the context of the common policy of our country. In this regard, I would like to remember, however, referring to the situation that existed just a hundred years ago - when the country of Latvia was formed, when there was a situation where there was about the same population in Latvia as at present, because clearly when these territories - Latgale, Vidzeme, Kurzeme - were united, there was some hope, there was a call for people to work together, to form a common state and share their joys, sorrows, and, of course, to enjoy all the existing things that can be provided by the common national state. I would like to mention Latgale specifically, because when I come in... I am sorry, together with other regions, to form the state of Latvia, at that time there was about a fourth in Latgale, even more... a quarter of the population of the total population of the country. During this period, a hundred years, this proportion has changed considerably. Last year, i.e. 2020, the population of Latgale was 255 968 inhabitants, representing only 13.4 per cent of the total population of Latvia. And the standard of living in Latgale, Vidzeme, Kurzeme and Zemgale is not the same as it is, say, in the capital or in the vicinity of the capital. For example, I was surprised by the information just presented, where the President of the Bank of Latvia Mārtiņš Kazaks announced in the discussion organised by the Faculty of Social Sciences of the University of Latvia that Latvia has become a middle-income country since joining the European Union. Well, you know, if you can apply it, this average standard of living compared to the European average standard of living, let us say, in Riga, where GDP in Riga and the surrounding area exceeds 100 percent of the European average, then in Latgale, where there is about 40 percent of Europe's average, and in Vidzeme, Zemgale and Kurzeme, where there is a little more - 50 percent and a little more of Europe's average standard of living - then I have a question about what it meant? Did it mean that Mr. Kazak did not know whether it was misleading the public or whether it was a deliberate act trying to actually embarrass people, because people know that the standard of living is very different. It has hurt the problem, I have already said it several times in every way that uneven development of Latvia between regions is a major problem. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as the entire foreign service, including diplomatic services, should perhaps take several samples once again in other Member States of the European Union, give our government and the Saeima the opportunity to draw conclusions and make proposals that would, however, ultimately equalise this situation. I wouldn't want to be every year! - in Latgale and other regions, the population is falling by about two percent. That's... Well, we can calculate how long people in regions and also in Latvia will disappear. Then that would be one task. Second. As we are thinking very much at the moment and dealing with issues related to the Covid-19 pandemic, I would perhaps like to talk about the fact that, on 30 April last year, our government decided that a national research programme would be carried out to mitigate the effects of Covid-19, 10 projects will be carried out for a total of approximately five million projects, which are in fact aimed at mitigating these consequences in order to find ways to follow the pandemic, both in the economy and elsewhere. However, I would like to say that these projects were to be completed by the end of 2020. It is already 2021, and nothing has been heard that these projects would be... Let's say, conclusions are made... These conclusions should be made public. We don't know at the Saeima either. I doubt whether those experts - university experts and various institutes in Latvia dealing with these projects - really recommended increasing, for example, bureaucracy, bureaucracy in Latvia. I am not just talking here about the newly introduced vaccination centre, but I am talking here about many other institutions that are trying to create them in Latvia, either way. It's just... There has recently been a discussion and a discussion about the establishment of a pedagogical psychological support service, encouraged by the Trans-European Coordination Centre for the establishment of an existing institution. And more and more. This is, in my opinion, a waste of money once again. Given that we have already had a debt of EUR 11 billion. Then, here's the money of this loan. Who will be able to return this debt in the future if we see that the population is shrinking and, let us say, in the perspective of Latvia, it is not even so bright if we continue in the same spirit? However, I would call on the government to consider whether there should be more trust in private bodies within the health institution, because private bodies are doing many services more efficiently and more quickly, in my opinion, also the vaccination process could be carried out by these private bodies much more quickly than in addition to building these institutions and actually saving money. I wish, however, that the foreign minister should follow everything, follow the joint work of the European Union, but should not forget that the common policy, which is related to the opinion of the cardinal... I believe the contradiction between the liberal and conservative wing has been and will be here with us in Latvia as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U65	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Krista Bauman.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U66	Dear President, Dear Minister, Foreign Affairs Minister. Diplomats! Dear colleagues, And everyone who looks at us and listens to us! I would like to start by congratulating and thanking all Latvian diplomats, whose work to defend Latvia's interests and help our people in different parts of the world is most often invisible because it happens behind them. Last year meant an unprecedented challenge for the foreign service, both in terms of size and nature of work, and in terms of the implementation so far of the largest Latvian return operation under the conditions of digital diplomacy. Thank you very much, honourable diplomats and also former colleagues, for your work. We appreciate it and are proud of you! During the centenary of the international recognition of Latvia's statehood, I would particularly like to mention Latvia's outstanding diplomats. The promotion of gender equality is one of Latvia's foreign policy priorities in the field of human rights, therefore I am pleased to welcome the election of Latvia to the UN Women's Status Commission during the period 2021 to 2025. Last year, the role of women in Latvia's foreign and security policy has been dedicated to the excellent book published by the Latvian Institute of Foreign Affairs since the restoration of independence. It has been concluded that the representation of women in foreign and security policy in Latvia is really significant. A woman's renewed diplomatic service in Latvia has not been an exception, but its real creators and stars, although not always in the first series. Some of them were particularly bright in high international positions last year. I want to honor her and name her, also because I had the pleasure and honour of working with many of them in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the mid-1990s: Aina Nagobad-Abola, Sandra Kalniete, Anna Žugure, Argita Dauge, Ludmila Buligina, Baiba Braže, Ilze Juhansone, Elita Kuzma, Inga Skujiņa, Sanita Pavļuta-Deslande, Solveiga Silkalna, Kristīne Līce, Inga Reine, Zanda Kalniņa-Lukaševica. I am proud of your work and achievements, and I am convinced that women will continue to be a rule and a model for other countries in our diplomatic service, not an exception. Thank, respect and admiration for you! Dear colleagues, The diplomatic representations of Latvia to the citizens of our country are like a safety net covering almost the whole world. It is a pleasure that this year the network will also reach Australia, because there will finally be the opening of the embassy. The distance from Europe, the larger the meshes of the net, and South America is currently not affected at all. It is therefore necessary to work to ensure that this network covers all the continents where our citizens live, work and travel. Another powerful network, which covers the whole world in a virtual way, is ours, with active participation, the Diaspora law, which we started to implement this year. What do I want to wish Latvian foreign policy makers and implementers? Be courageous about the values that we are guided by in the family of European countries and express them loudly, regardless of the shoulder and without waiting for someone who has a bigger weight to say his name first. This is particularly important in response to situations such as our neighbour in Belarus. After the unfair presidential elections and subsequent protests, which have been violently repressed by the authorities for half a year. We must remember that the world is also looking at us, waiting for us to say, because we are, however, close neighbours of Belarus. We need to show initiative, leadership and courage both with regard to our immediate neighbours and other allies. If allies hesitate, it is our role to remind us of the universal principles of human rights and to actively encourage the sanctions of the European Union and of other allies against authoritarian regimes, which are brutally violent, even against the political opposition through indignity. This will be the opportunity in the coming days, when the European High Representative for Foreign Affairs, Mr Borel, will meet with Foreign Minister Lavrov in Moscow, and the next time the European Union's Foreign Ministers meet. Russian autocrats and oligarchs have both bank accounts and luxurious properties in European countries. It is unacceptable for us, as the European Union, to allow this, while being well aware that the money paid for it is a plunder of corruption that is contaminated with blood. It's like taking in your home as guests of a criminal who shows a civilised face, but continues to forging newft plans. Scrapers and Navalijs were poisoned with the aim of killing, but their poisoners probably enjoy the luxury lifestyle of the old European villas on the Mediterranean, if still alive. Europe must not allow this to happen. And it is quite simple if there is political will to prevent it. Latvia can drive political will. In my opinion, this must be done at all levels - Members of the European Parliament, Foreign Ministers and others. The word "value" is mentioned in the foreign policy report a lot. The European Union is a union of values and the rule of law. And I agree with that. Our public officials like it. — Sound Break. ... the vision of Latvia as a Nordic country and a part of Northern Europe as an objective to be pursued and a desire to be like a prosperous, liberal, socially assured Scandinavian society with values such as humanity, cooperation and trust. But we cannot be in Northern Europe, but in the non-liberal democracy of Orban. Such humiliation is hypocritical and unacceptable. It is difficult for me to imagine what a challenge our foreign minister and other diplomats are to explain to their allies how it can be that Latvia, on the one hand, pretends to be a Nordic country and, on the other hand, discriminates against its families, contrary to the principles of human dignity and equality laid down by the Constitution. I sincerely wish our diplomats to strengthen Latvia's commitment to international politics this year, as well as to the importance of multilateralism - in this respect, the joy of the hopeful messages from the new US administration - and the possibility of a form of incoming diplomatic relations. I hope that, at the end of this year, there will be an on-site meeting of NATO foreign ministers, as planned. Digital diplomacy can do very much, but not close to everything. I'm not in a lot of communication work. I know you too. Let us, therefore, do our utmost to bring vaccines to Latvia more quickly and we can all work at full capacity again. Thank you. Good luck for you and good health for all of us!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U67	Thank you. We are continuing the debate. The name's Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U68	Hello, dear colleagues! Dear Officials, At the moment, we are all in a hard fight against an unprecedented pandemic. It slowed down the economy of all the countries of the world, including Latvia. In this context, I would like to remind you that, in addition to providing security and state and assistance to its citizens, the primary task of national foreign policy must also be to promote economic development. That could be said to be the added value of national foreign policy. Unfortunately, recent events and trends in this context do not give me optimism, namely that Latvia and the Baltic States in its neighbourhood face unpleasant prospects. Our most ambitious project is Rail Baltica. The Heads of Government of three republics are currently trying to obtain the funds they want, making the entire European Union recovery budget programme dependent on rail money with a drastic ultimatum. Unfortunately, I do not hear any explanations about this situation today. In my opinion, we can also interpret such a development scenario as a failure of Latvia's foreign policy. After all, Riga officially tried to execute and exceed all Brussels instructions for the last 15 years. According to our prevailing political philosophy, it should have been used for greater trust in the Latvian state by our partners. We were promised investment and economic growth after joining the European Union, NATO, the euro area. After that, after joining the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. But now it turns out that we have to do some kind of Moneyval messages, and suddenly the so-called capital repairs of the financial system have become topical. I have my own point of view. The current approach to Latvia's foreign and internal policies will never contribute to improving the economy, life and human well-being. The system's approach in itself seems very mistaken. Illustratingly, the country is forced to run a marathon, but one hand is tied to the body. Latvian foreign policy makers not only do not take advantage of the country's favourable geo-economic status, but are consciously acting, to the detriment of the country's transit and export interests. In this way, I can appreciate the constant statements of sanctions against neighbouring countries by the management of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is particularly surprising to have the joy of running the sanctions that Latvia has now proposed against a neighbouring country, which has never made historical or legal claims against Latvia and has always tried to live with it as a good partner. Conflicts with another neighbouring country are much broader - in proportion to the territory, population and history of this land. Once, more than a hundred years ago, Latvian ambassadors together with other representatives of progressive humanity have already brought new social order and freedom from reaction to the people of this former empire. It is possible that today the Foreign Ministry will carefully examine the internal affairs of this country and make new statements on sanctions - this is an expression of the powerful spirit of the ancestors. But we have not been living in the empire for a long time, and it is high time to end the fantastic pain of the world revolution, in this case liberal. Democracy, however, is not a spy; it is not worth pushing our export goods, while our own market is not saturated. And with democracy there are significant problems in Latvia itself. During the current parliamentary period of this government, we are facing major challenges linked to the proper functioning of the democratic system. Perhaps this can be partly explained by the fact that, for a very long time, we took the example of democracy what happened to our strategic partners in the overseas country. And suddenly it turns out that czar is not true and the king is naked. Our allies are currently preparing an empire, leaving power, against the former president. The historical parallel could only be called the removal of the dictator's mummies from the Kremlin's mausoleum. Once this pandemic is over, many mummies, outdated political figures, as well as instruments will be taken out. I hope that the engraving of swords, too, will be the past. All this should be addressed by restoring the global economy and social sphere. I hope that Latvia and its foreign policy professionals - diplomats - will find the strength to set real priorities, and our country will be able to help first and foremost increase the welfare of its citizens. But for the soldiers of the Cold War and for the fans of the Cold Weapons, I can repeat the ancient wisdom - it is easy to grab the power with force, but it is not convenient to sit on the darts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U69	Thank you. The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U70	Hello, honourable Minister for Foreign Affairs! Excellency! Colleagues! I will start with the fact that this has been the year when Latvians have felt stronger than other years, where our homes are. The year when we said Article 98 of the Satversme, which guarantees that every citizen has the right to return freely to Latvia, in this case – to the affected and closed Latvia of the pandemic. It is time to say thank you once again for the selfish actions of foreign service staff beyond what is set and determined by their service duties, delivering everyone who needed it and where it was possible and sometimes impossible. With a similar approach, the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have been able to provide support to Belarusian activists and political prisoners released by Ukraine during the year. And with a similar approach many foreign service employees work, most often - in the sight of others. Thank you very much. The work of the Foreign Service these days reminds of their work and efforts a hundred years ago, which resulted in the recognition of Latvia's de iure, which we celebrated yesterday for a hundred years. Targeted, with a vision, tireless and courageous - I would like to see such a thing as Latvia's foreign policy. We did it best last year in the case of Belarus. After the 9th of August, the presidential elections of Belarus, counterfeiting of results, popular protests were followed by statements by the Foreign Minister, the Prime Minister, the Baltic Foreign Ministers, the Foreign Affairs Commission of the Saeima, the Saeima and others. It was time we agreed at European Union level to regard the results of the elections as counterfeit, Lukashenko as an unlegitimate president and to impose sanctions. Without active action and coordinated action by the Baltic States, this would certainly look different. At the Baltic Assembly, where I was in the presidency, we also wrote letters in August and received replies from senior officials of the European Union. What I think more important, however, is that we in the Baltic Assembly had the opportunity to address our colleagues in the Nordic and Benelux parliaments, calling on them to be principled on the issue of Belarus, stressing how important this is. In these cases, we must knock on all the doors we can and on all those who can. Democracy must be defended. 172 days have passed since the presidential elections in Belarus. More than 220 political prisoners have been reported, arrested, arrested and tortured by many thousands of Belarusians. Many have left the country fleeing. The demonstrations will continue. The Belarusians are tired, but they are also continuing their protests. We also need to be able to get tired of what we are doing in terms of European sanctions. They are not complete. We need to keep track of our efforts to curb the regime, to support people and their desire for freedom. Do not relax. We must not get tired either, because freedom and justice are under threat in another of our neighbours, Russia. There is a frozen conflict in Moldova. In Armenia and Azerbaijan, it has just obeyed. Occupied territories in Georgia. In Ukraine, war continues, but in Kiev, the capital will continue to fight for the right of the corrupt elite to escape from a fair punishment. Late at the example of Ukraine. Recalling the internationally appreciated work of Latvia in Ukraine, where I had the opportunity to work as an expert before working as an expert in Parliament, including Juta Striki, a colleague of the Saeima who went out of life early, I would like to mention another aspect of foreign policy responsibility. Juta Strīķe once said as the head of KNAB to the local figurants of Riga City Council: “If you take the bribes, we will come after you.” A year ago, in this debate, I was talking about Latvia's responsibilities as a member of the OECD Convention on the Prevention of bribery of Foreign Officials in International Business Transactions, about the responsibility of entrepreneurs to act honestly when entering the export markets, and about the duty of the country to support them. No one seems to have actually responded. And you know... KNAB came after them. Last December began to launch criminal prosecutions against a Latvian-registered company for large-scale bribery of Belarusian officials and tax evasion. Evidence suggests that an information technology company’s employee, acting in the company’s interest, gave bribes to more than two million officials from 2011 to 2016 in order to ensure favourable decisions. Nordic policy - it is also a fair investment policy. If we do nothing to enable entrepreneurs to know and understand the risks of corruption outside Latvia, then such shameful stains will continue to complement the face of Latvia's foreign policy. I call on the government to take this anti-corruption convention seriously in practice. The corruption perception index published today shows that Latvia is stagnating, but, you know, I would say that we have the opportunity to fall lower if we do not act. We can also cause great damage to our ability to defend security, our security and the right of the Latvian neighbours to democracy if we, as a European country, show that we are trying to return to the past, outside the frame of a democratic and legal state, trying to change our constitution in order to discriminate against someone. In Europe, there is a very painful experience of discrimination against people, and the values of respect for every human being are so expensive and in principle to be held and protected. In November last year, the United States, with its President Joe Baden's leadership, has chosen the largest number ever in the US elections, now returning to international movement by re-establishing its solidarity in preventing both the Covid-19 pandemic (the World Health Organisation) and climate change issues and other forms of cooperation. I believe that in the coming years, the United States and Latvia and all the Baltic States will succeed in a great breakthrough of cooperation. Joe Baiden is the last senior official from the United States, who was in Latvia four years ago - then as Vice-President of the United States. And I would like to see Mr Baden - this time in the role of President - visit Latvia again. On the other hand, a smaller-scale event took place in August, but one that hopefully will give foreign policy a new boost. In Riga, the capital city has changed its power, and Riga wants to cooperate and be on many international networks. Today Riga is preparing to sign the Paris Declaration, committing itself to being the first climate neutral city in the Baltics and to being among the top 100 climate neutral cities of the world by 2030. We have the opportunity to use the reputation and tow of our former Hanseatic city of more than 800 years in order to participate in the growing urban diplomacy and strengthen Latvia's foreign policy. Riga has already started cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and after a long time there will be a foreign policy adviser in the capital. There will be no more enticement for Riga to go to Moscow, while nationalities are other priorities and partners. More about the small events of the foreign policy debate. A year ago, the Minister of Foreign Affairs at the Saeima's meeting room found out what was the platform for TikTok. It was a message from young people who had just launched the first UN Youth Ambassadors program. This year, this programme continued by bringing together dozens of young people on their holidays to discuss and explore global climate change, health and other issues. Thank you to the Foreign Minister, who, although NATO StratCom says that TisTok is one of the most insecure social networks, published there and tried new forms of communication. We must continue to listen to the young people who have also sent out a message today in our foreign policy debate. They said: “We are concerned that Latvia’s internal policy can influence our role in the world, as well as in international organisations. We want to live in an inclusive environment and choose to represent young people in an inclusive way. The UN Youth Delegation Programme supports a policy that each young person would like to live, return and stay here." Mr. Foreign Minister! Excellency! Colleagues! In 2021, when entering the second centenary of Latvian diplomacy and approaching the centenary of the Constitution, I invite you to continue working in foreign policy in principle, with a vision, tireless and courageously, making your own homework right here in Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U71	Thank you. Name to Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs. ( Pause) Mr. Rinkēvičs, we can't hear you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U72	And now?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U73	Very good.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U74	You hear me?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U75	Yeah, very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U76	Thank you to the President. It is time to respond to the comments made by Members. First of all, I would like to thank the Speaker of the Saeima and the Prime Minister for their good words, like many other Members, and agree with both Mrs Mūrniece, Mr Kariņš and Mr Valaiņš that, of course, one of the most important issues in the fight against the community... for economic development after the community is a vaccination... availability and vaccination of vaccines. A number of other Members have also spoken about this quite a lot. Here, however, I would like to say that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is working very actively and helping our colleagues in the Ministry of Health. We are actively working with both the European Commission and other Member States. And I have already allowed all possible means to be used. It should be said, though, that it may also have been said at certain times that faster vaccination is needed. I agree with this, but I think we all understand that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not exactly the one that organises this process. It has a special body, and I fully trust the Ministry of Health and the Minister in this work. I would also like to agree with Mr Kola - and in fact we are already working on this - that it is necessary to activate and create a more active European Union Special Envoy Representative Institute. It already exists on certain issues. We believe, for example, that such an institution is definitely also necessary for the European Union's Eastern Partnership. I also completely join in how we... I also think that we have talked a lot about transatlantic cooperation in the debate at the Foreign Affairs Commission when preparing this report, including the stocktakings of the situation. I also add that the first steps in the new administration, through dialogue with the European Union, perhaps by giving up certain axes, are positive. And, of course, China is one of the major challenges and issues where the common denominator will have to be sought. Mrs Steel and Mrs Mednes spoke about the European Union and about values. In a way, listening carefully to these two speeches, I see a certain contradiction. Mrs steel is rightly concerned about the issues of the rule of law, that there are things that will not be resolved. Mrs Mednes, for her part, is concerned that the European Union's value discourse has been taken over by the left liberals and that there is no room for conservative values. I would like to say that Latvia's position on these issues and policy is absolutely clear. We are not on the left of liberal or conservative values, we believe that values are universal, human rights and judicial power are absolutely inevitable and essential values not only in Europe but in the world. We have not always agreed with those who want to politicise these issues. In this respect, we fully agree with the President of Latvia that values must, of course, be spoken about, but that the violation of values and the response, if we really want a legal system, can be spoken and judged by the Court of Justice of the European Union. I have to say, we have seen judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the cases of Poland, Hungary. They must be respected. But we are also very careful at the moment when values begin to speak too politicised. Again. I hear both of you, I understand both of you, but I would like to emphasise once again that there are no such conservative or left liberal values, there are universal values and there are interpretations. And I would also like to agree with Mrs Steel that it is indeed very good that the European Commission has begun to produce reports, annual reports, on the rule of law in the Member States. It is also prepared for Latvia. Let me say, a very good report, shows us perhaps in a better light than we sometimes want to think in a self-critical way, but that does not mean that we do not have to work on these issues. In any case, we are prepared to continue working with the Member States and the European Commission on these issues and to do so in the most objective way possible. Mrs Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, thank you very much for your good words. And I would also like to say a great deal of thanks to you and to the entire Latvian delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe for the very consistent position already, I must say, since the occupation of Crimea, since the vote (two years ago) on the renewal of the Russian delegation's voting rights. I think that this position, in fact, the fact that Latvia has, to a large extent, been the leader of this case under the leadership of you and your colleagues, is indeed a huge merit of our parliamentary diplomacy. I fully agree that countries such as Moldova and Georgia, about their territorial indivisibility, must not be forgotten, but that the issues of these countries are extremely important both in Latvia's foreign policy and must be relevant in the diplomacy of international organisations. And also on transatlantic relations, on things where we have new opportunities, I fully join Mr Kalniņš and Mr Leieniņš. Mr Valaiņš, your speech this year was surprising, I must say, interesting and objective, unlike last year when... Some of your forecasts have not been fulfilled in time, but I would like to say that I think we need to understand two things. First thing. When we talk about transit. We have debated this in parliamentary foreign policy debates and in various formats for a long and long time. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has provided maximum support as possible, but there are also geo-economic and geostrategic considerations and there are also economic matters. I can only repeat what I have said many times when I meet with ministers from many different countries, both economic and foreign, or entrepreneurs who say: “We are ready to use your ports, but your tariffs are not as good as our neighbours.” I have talked about this with many colleagues in different governments, we have been looking for solutions. Well, without politics, there's also an offer... And, I must say, there will be things that, of course, change irreversibly, but there are things on which we are certainly ready to work. On the European Charter for Local Authorities. It should be said, it would be more a question of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development; the case is in the Constitutional Court. I would just like to remind you that the municipal charter is not of a general nature, but of the nature of the recommendation. Of course, there is a need to work on these issues. Mr Kirštein and Mr Valaiņš also referred to the Moneyval cases. Ladies and gentlemen, I absolutely agree that other countries must comply with exactly the same standards as Latvia, and we will stand up for this and work with the Ministry of Finance, together with the Financial Intelligence Service, the Financial and Capital Market Commission (FCLC) and other institutions that directly represent Latvia in the relevant institutions, but that does not mean that we can reduce our standards. Our task is not to go down to another level, but to do everything to make others at our level. And that is what we will do in the future. At the same time, I call for us not to relax. Unfortunately, our national “sport” after joining NATO and the OECD is usually the kind of guy we reach, we are champions, we put ourselves on our shoulder and relax. Yes, we need to change certain regulations, which are perhaps quite painful for business and which are not justified, but - please let us understand that we cannot change systemic things! Mrs Mednes mentioned here about Latvia's image, about public diplomacy. It was just last week that the Cabinet of Ministers decided on the merger of the Latvian Institute and the Latvian Investment and Development Agency, effectively combining resources that are not so large in one hand. And I think it will also be a partial answer to your quite reasonable statement that more can be done here. Mr Dombrava, a very brief remark about what you said about the commodium at the beginning of last year. Although many may not have believed you, I'd just say... and it may remain in the Saeima stenogram, - you were right. And I would very much like to hope that you are also right that this year will perhaps be the first year of demographics in which we will have a positive balance - not on the birth rate, but perhaps at the expense of those people who return to Latvia. Thank you to Mr Zarins for a really interesting speech. Both the big data and artificial intelligence we think here in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs... and I would like to draw attention to what I said at the beginning of the Saeima's debate - that we are working on scenarios for the period up to 2030 and these issues will be addressed in these scenarios. But your speech was interesting and is in line with these new challenges, and indeed we will also take into account your views when preparing scenarios and, of course, in practical work. Mr Kirstein spoke about the fact that there is no debate anywhere about the green course and the corresponding targets. Mr. Kirstein, that is not true. Discussions have taken place both within the government and within the Saeima Commission for European Affairs, confirming positions. How broad the discussion is, how wide the public debate is - it is another issue, but it is not that someone has decided that policy somewhere quite, quite quiet. These issues have been discussed both when Mr Gerhard was Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development and when Mr Puce became this Minister, and now when Mr Ples. On Mount Karabah. I can only reiterate Latvia's principle position: yes, we support the principle of territorial integrity, yes, we believe that the status should be debated, and yes, we believe that, however, this conflict must be resolved peacefully. And Mr Kazinovsky talked about Latgale, talked about keeping us following the debate in the European Union. Not only are we following the European Union's debate, we are participating in it. However, I would like to say that the better results for Latvia, the better results for Latgale... This also applies, by the way, to the European Union's multiannual budget and the Recovery Instrument. Thank you to Mrs Baumane for the good words for diplomats, and thank you also for the words of support. I completely join in the fact that the Embassy in Australia cannot be the last. We really have to look at Latin America, both economically and for other reasons. Mr. Cabanov, I have to say that some of your names have reminded me more about the Pravda from the 1980s, the revolutions, the empires, the Tsars and the kings... This will not happen to another country, Latvia, but Latvia will have a principled and valuable position where these issues are really important. Mrs Voika, concluding this reply, too, I... and my colleagues would also like to say that on our part... we believe that the fight against corruption in our own country is essential, but although sometimes we go as we go, we should not be giving references to these issues or helping other countries. We have therefore been supportive of and will continue to support OECD programmes to combat corruption in Ukraine. And about Riga City Council. Yes, I have had a conversation with the Riga City Council, with Mr. Smiltēna, and we really hope that the Foreign Advisor will be working soon and this will improve our cooperation. Colleagues! I would really like to say about the very interesting ones so far... I don't always agree... And you didn't agree with me... but it does not mean that there is no reason for your criticism or your suggestions. Thank you very much for the interesting debate so far. I would like to draw attention, though, to the fact that perhaps the Foreign Minister is the only one who must debate so much and deeply many different issues, and not always these issues fall within the competence of the Foreign Minister. So I'm waiting for the next portion and then I'm ready to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U77	Thank you, Minister. It's time for a break. Only registration of participants. It's been a success. So we will continue the debate after the break. Interruption until 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U78	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue the sitting of the Saeima after a break. We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U79	Dear colleagues, There is no doubt that the annual foreign debate is a very important component of parliamentary culture and that all Members... In expressing our opinion on Latvia's foreign policy course, on what we have done and what we plan to do... from our debate, the verbatim report of our sitting will be able to judge what each of us has understood with the Latvian foreign policy course and what each of us may wish to wish and see in the future. I must apologise to our exelencies, our diplomats who are also following this debate, about perhaps not too diplomatic statements from our colleagues, but, of course, it is good that we still have freedom of expression here in the Saeima. We cannot be sure about this for other sites. For example, the same on Facebook or Twitter. These sites, which were mentioned with great enthusiasm in the past by our colleagues and also by the head of parliament and the Minister for Foreign Affairs... We feel that there is indeed a very great desire to fight against freedom of expression on these sites as well. But I'll try to tell you in detail about everything. So, what personally seems to me to be very important for our foreign policy course and what I think would be necessary in the future? The fact that we have a foreign minister who actually combines... also performs the functions of the Minister for Trade, makes this task very difficult, because the functions of foreign and trade, clearly overlapping, create excessive politicism in our relations with our neighbours, with our business partners. We can see this because we are too impressed with the fact that we want to be always the first, but the first is not always the first to grow cargo or increase trade, but the first to run, condemn, unite against. This is not the best scenario for us as a country that we really want to see flourishing and well-developed. Its desire to free Latvia from capital and from all resources, scaring potential investors, in my opinion, is too great... and this passion for Latvia to become the first country to become fully free of capital, funds and space, to show others an example... I think others won't want to follow us. I think that, in an attempt to introduce various sanctions and try to clear Latvia from perhaps some form of unwanted capital, we can get to a situation where we are simply not going to be bloodless, and the body without blood is simply not viable, because it is clear that trade and international relations have always been important issues for the circulation of countries since the beginning of their creation. What is happening at the moment - it is unfortunately not a focus on international trade relations; it is something quite different. It may be ambition, it may be an attempt to serve someone, but it is not a concern for the well-being of our country. What I would also like to say is that honourable colleagues, we have seen a lot of double standards here. The double standards we see are both on freedom of expression and on the rule of law. There has been a great deal of desire to condemn other Member States of the European Union, such as Hungary and Poland, for not meeting certain standards, but at the same time, Latvia has remained blind and deaf to the European Parliament resolution issued on 13 November. This resolution makes it clear that we need to break down a little bit with regard to emergency decisions and is starting to think about how to return to normal, giving Parliament much more powers than we have at present - even until we can consider giving up the emergency. This resolution also makes it clear that the fight against disinformation must not become a weapon of sanctions and criminalisation. The fight against disinformation is, of course, the quality of public information, not the kind of information that our government leader, Krišjānis Kariņš, has intended, one Sunday evening, with everyone in front and saying: "Friends, it's not good! We've got something... Let's think." Not the kind of information we saw from the government in mid-December, when it just leaked a document saying that in the future everyone will have to sit at home and have the right to just leave... Maybe with a doctor. No information or public information such as... we have already been used to closed sittings of the Cabinet of Ministers and information discs from the mass media during these months. No, this information must be much more qualitative and must include both the public and the parliament in the decision-making process. That's what we're talking about. And these are the double standards on which... many of our colleagues probably wanted to close their eyes by condemning other countries, but not seeing what is happening in our own country - just the same double standard of freedom of expression and hate speech: hate speech - with regard to otherwise minded, sexual orientation, but not with regard to hatred towards Christians. And it's pathetic because we, our society, in this... At the end of last year, it was forced to hear a lot of hate speech against those who intend to change the Constitution. On the part of judges of the Constitutional Court too, unfortunately. And if we talk about various efforts to influence Latvia's internal affairs, like Poland and Hungary's internal affairs, then I have news for you, honourable colleagues, about the amendments to the Constitution. Whatever threat letters our squads in the European Parliament have received from LGBT groups and sent to Latvia, this is the internal matter of our country. These cases do not fall within the competence of other Member States of the European Union. However, the double standards do not apply to foreign affairs. Here they will not work, because double standards are not applicable in cases where, for example, we pray very much for goods, because we see that the volume of cargo has fallen dramatically in all ports of Latvia (in contrast to the ports of Klaipeda). We pray with one hand, but with the other hand we invade our neighbor and say that we do not see him. We also see this in our foreign policy report. On one page we hope for cooperation, on the other page we condemn. Such double standards will not work. Before condemning and challenging everyone, we need to think first of all about our Latvian people, our economy, how we can feed our children. You will be able, but those who work in ports will not be able. Perhaps you could even change with them for one month with work and look at how it is - survive when there, at the top, politicians play their games, but you simply have to pay crisis bills, credit and feed children. It's not good to have fun with such games. You don't think about the country, you don't think about the internal affairs of the country, about our people. You stand as if on behalf of Latvia's interests, but do not do anything in this regard, Mr. Rinkēvičs. I would very much like to expect from you a much more patriotic, much more protectionist action in relation to Latvia's interests - the one that you demonstrated by returning our compatriots to their homes. However, if we talk about countrymen, it is very important, of course, to think about how we provide them with ties to Latvia, because we know that our countrymen have very limited opportunities to obtain even the same e-signature. Yes, they can apply for an e-signature, but in order to receive it, it is necessary to pay for diplomatic mail services. This is not really possible for many. Finally, if we are talking about priorities, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there will probably be a new priority, because the construction of the Skulte LNG terminal will probably no longer be relevant, given that the new President of the United States has very recently signed a moratorium on the development of subsoils. Consequently, it is quite possible that these expectations... This dream that we... which you dreamed of (not heard.) ... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U80	Mrs Stepanenko, thank you. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U81	President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues, Minister! Resurrection! Symbolically, after a hundred years, when Latvian diplomats had to fight for Latvia to be recognised as a de iure country, we have to fight today. We have to fight, firstly, for us to save human lives, secondly for us to be able to rebuild the economy and, thirdly... Well, yeah, about this government... reliability. And we have to fight with international companies for supplying vaccines to Latvia - we have to fight together with the European Union, where we have successfully joined already in 2004. As you feel, these accents have changed over a hundred years. A hundred years ago we had to talk mainly to states and national officials, whereas today we are talking to both states and national officials and economic square players. So the time has come when economic interests are on stage and have applied for themselves as a serious dimension in the foreign policy of any country. And if we do not maintain and defend these economic interests, we will, of course, find it difficult to deal with foreign policy. Minister, you mentioned that.... you mentioned a number of things. First of all, you mentioned that the principle of Latvia's foreign policy is very simple - that we are following what is happening elsewhere in the world, or what is happening in the world, and then adapting our foreign policy to Latvia's interests. That's one thing. Second. You said that you have been told that Latvian port tariffs are too expensive. But the third... What you didn't say... But what's very axiomomical... that foreign policy is an extension of internal policy. And, you know, yesterday I received a very worrying letter from three Latvian ports, let's say, representatives of the fact that it has been for a long time – for a long time! - it does not have dialogue with these port representatives with, say, representatives of the government or government. And, of course, it affects both the way in which investments are made in ports and the prices of these port services. So I'd like to ask your attention... Given that internal policy is... either, or foreign policy is internal policy - change as you wish - please draw attention to this question because there is this uncertainty for Latvian ports, and the fact that there is this inability to talk to them - it poses a rather serious threat to Latvia's economic interests. And I've sent this letter... This letter, which has been sent to me by port representatives, I have sent to the Prime Minister today. I hope that the Prime Minister and the Cabinet will be hearing and will not take hasty steps. That's one. Second. You know... I have also sent you a letter from a Latvian businessman who works in Azerbaijan and whose interests are brutally trampled on by this supposedly friendly country. I think that Latvian diplomats and Latvia's foreign policy must stand watchful of the interests of our businessmen, because these are our interests - Latvia's interests. And finally. You mentioned the far-reaching plans and the future, you mentioned Latin America, but I have not really heard the word "Africa" today, an exception in the Chinese context. Africa is one of the fastest growing continents, where Latvian entrepreneurs could have serious economic interests, so I invite you, Minister, to consider moving Latvia's foreign policy towards Africa. Good luck for all of you in carrying out these diplomatic and foreign duties on a daily basis! I hope you will succeed in guessing what future tactics and strategies are needed for foreign policy in order for Latvia to be successful, and the right choices will be made to develop foreign policy vectors. Thank you, and good luck!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U82	Name of Member Dagmara Beitner–Le Galla.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U83	Dear Mr. Rinkēvičs! Excellency! Colleagues! I have only five small comments on the report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. First. I would like to thank you for the Embassy to be opened up in Australia. This is a very important achievement of our diplomacy, and it is a good gift for our diplomacy and national recognition during the centenary. It is the first Embassy of Latvia in the Southern Hemisphere. I very much hope that the embassies in Latin America and Africa will follow, as my colleague Bondar said just now. It is very, very important, it is not only support for our Diaspora; it will, I think, also very serious support for our economy and cooperation with our compatriots - both with the compatriots who have, let us say, business in Australia and also with the compatriots in general. And I hope that the embassy will also be able to control very well the standards laid down, for example, in the text of the Treaty. I have already mentioned this to you last year. That is really welcome. Thank you for this step. Secondly. I would like to say that the French President's visit was a bold step, despite the second wave of the Covid's coming. Thank you for this courageous resolution. France is a very important cooperation partner for us. I think that after the replacement of Angela Merkel, it was Macron... and France could be one of the nuclear states in terms of diplomacy, and we have very important cooperation with France. I would like to take this opportunity here to present the centenary of diplomacy and to thank the author of the idea and author Mārtiņš Drēģers. Thank you, it's really a very valuable gift for this centenary. But I would also like to talk a little about the things that made me think. And I would like to hear your comment on your report. It is very beautifully slipped over one moment, about which I had to explain to one of my very active voters, because she was very disliked that we did not make the same correct assessment... right at the beginning... Results of the Belarus elections. Our resolution was different from that of Lithuania and Estonia, and I had to explain why our diplomacy is not right enough. I hope you will respond to me in your comment on why this happened. And, of course, wonderful that... Thank you, at the end of the day, we're taking it all very well, this moment of our maybe unscrupulousness. Did we expect a hockey championship? I don't know, but really my constituents said they felt there was no spine... And my last remark. I would like to highlight an issue such as the Comprehensive and Enhanced Partnership Agreement between the European Union and Armenia. I would like your answer. When could Latvia accept the 1915 genocide condemnation document of the Armenian people? I understand that it was not possible in the autumn, during the conflict, but I am very asking not to delay this issue and to give perhaps more precise deadlines when we could adopt this type of document with you. I thank you for all the work that your service is doing for Latvia and wish you every success in the next two centuries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U84	Thank you. Name to Member Aivars Gaidan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U85	Dear Chairman and fellow Members of the Saeima. I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his annual report. Many important issues were discussed, which are important for Latvia's foreign policy, but the report did not address one of the most important issues: the cohesion of the Member States of the European Union and a united European Union on the global stage. Relations between the Member States of the European Union must be based on mutual respect and understanding. The United Kingdom has left the European Union, and there are several reasons for this, and one of them is that the European Union's policies and public rhetoric have shown a desire to influence national governments, which are legitimately elected in democratic elections. I hope that, after the brux, European leaders will draw conclusions and in future will take and take balanced and thoughtful decisions so as not to start a chain reaction and the desire of other Member States to review their membership of the European Union. Public pressure is being put on countries such as Poland, Hungary and Slovakia, which express and defend the will of their people, who have clearly expressed their desire to preserve the conservative values enshrined in their constitutions. The will of the people of these countries - to maintain and strengthen the traditional union between men and women - must be respected by the European Union, not criticised and threatened by sanctions. The change in Poland marks a turning point in the future development of the European Union. The sustainability of the European Union depends on the desire of the Member States to respect its values and laws. If these laws run counter to national values, then this can lead to a review of the meaning of the existence of the European Union, which will also have an impact on Latvia. A recent application to the Saeima to amend Article 110 of the Satversme in order to strengthen the concept of the family. The supporters of conservative values have been activated, but neither do supporters of liberal values, who actively promote same-sex couple policy in Latvia. The same-sex activists enjoy suspicious favours from the seemingly independent mass media of Latvia, and this means that our country may one day be in conflict with the European Union's partners on the regulation of legal protection of same-sex couples. There is enormous political pressure on those countries that do not accept the European Union's guidelines on the protection of the interests of sexual minorities. We live in an age of constant change and evolution. It is time that the universalisation of democratic values can lead to a situation in which a conflict arises between the liberal democracy imposed by the European Union and the national fundamental values of Latvia, which are enshrined in the Constitution of our country. On the global stage, there are problems with the fact that some countries have a desire to interfere in the internal policies of other countries, in particular the governments supporting conservative values, and with a wide range of instruments they seek to influence the decision-making processes. One of the instruments is public rhetoric or threats. I'm going to cit Euro-Commission Helen Dalli... The European Commissioner for Equality, Helena Dalle, calls for financial sanctions against those Member States that refuse to follow the policy of tolerance. If the initiative is approved, Poland and Hungary can remain without partial EU funding. Other countries in the former Communist bloc may also face problems. Of course, the list of named countries also includes the Baltic States, which pay much less to the EU's annual budget than they receive (the ratio is one to three). This is not the right instrument to influence the governments of the Member States of the European Union. New Timeframes... The phrase “We will ripen them” is used among Liberalists. Let me remind you that Latvians are not vegetables that need to be ripened, so build up your intellectual capacity safely so that you don't talk silly in public space! It is absolutely clear that today's European liberal policy can lead to unpredictable and tragic consequences for future generations to return European countries to a balanced set of values where there is a balance between democracy, fundamental human rights and national interests. In the future, European leaders need to think about what policies to pursue in order for the European Union to be united, united in its fundamental values and to respect the right of every democratic, sovereign state to self-determination. If we think and act wisely, then the foundations and values of our country will never disappear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U86	Name to Member Uldis Budric.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U87	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Mr. Foreign Minister! I'll start with a brief remark. It's not the first year... and you, Minister, know that... I recall that we should both fundamentally change the approach and raise the level of diplomatic participation in Taiwan and Tibet. But not about it. Could it be even better for this foreign debate to be held - one week in conjunction with the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe? This allows us both to look back on last year and to analyse the current situation and to develop guidelines such as the next foreign policy and diplomatic steps. Mr Rinkēvičs, your annual report mentions a lot of extremely good things and good work, there is a course for the future, but we have a duty - and therefore also for me as a Member of the Saeima, as well as an EPPA - to point out what has perhaps not been so excellent... and where we see more participation... The Russian Federation was admitted back to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe for a quarter of a century. For this to happen, it needed to ratify the most fundamental convention, by which guidelines and, as you have said, universal values, we, colleagues, also live and on which values the whole of the European community is based. However, there is a country that treats these values in the same way as a elephant in a shop of dishes, and unfortunately, this is something that is close to the eyes. For example, today... At the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in which... By merging the Baltic States with the nations that have a historical understanding... failed to convince the other delegates, and in the vote three quarters reaffirmed the mandate of the Russian delegation. It is an act without understanding because - what kind of dialogue can be with a country that, by its actual actions, proves that it is playing by others, by its own rules and human rights convention is simply to be put in a shredder! We are talking about the question of our friend, Georgia, about the annexation of Crimea, and it can continue and continue. This is about violations of human rights and international obligations. This Convention talks about fundamental human rights such as fair justice, not judicial police. And here I would say, the Navaly courts could judge as well on board the plane. Let's assume it would already be scandal in Latvia if the court had decided on a trip at Matīss Street Police Station. But here too... It's not about Navaly, but it's about almost three and a half thousand people who... on which fundamental values and human rights were warned. And similar trends can be seen in other individual issues as well. Yes, and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe shows a lack of understanding of history. It may be corrected and corrected in order to clarify it. And I am sorry, but it is vital to correct it so that we do not close our eyes to the fact that, let us assume, there is now a Russian Donetsk forum in Donetsk... so that in the end it doesn't come out that there is a Russian Daugavpils forum, a Russian Riga, Vilnius or Tallinn forum... And here we need to be very careful. And you, Minister, for 10 years in the position of Minister for Foreign Affairs... You certainly have both contacts, links and opportunities to promote this understanding, this historical understanding, and also the colleagues in the Council of Europe. That is what we are doing on a parliamentary level and maybe not so much and less excellently we can see it from you. Otherwise, good work! And thank you also to the entire Foreign Service for the progress made during the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U88	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U89	Hello, colleagues! Hello, community! I ask you to combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U90	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U91	Dear Latvian society! Dear colleagues! Today, listening to these beautiful, sweet speeches from the leaves all day long, I felt a little bit like that at a parish convention. And now it's time to talk about the matter. For foreign affairs and what has really been done or not. I want to start my speech with a statement that, in my opinion... and not only in me - many because many representatives of Latvian society are of such opinion... In our view, we have the worst foreign minister ever. And I'll prove it to you. I recently received a letter from a big businessman - from the owner of a factory. He owns a factory in Latvia, and he writes as follows: “I attended several meetings where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs simply does not hear either entrepreneurs or even the Ministry of Agriculture. They live in some kind of world and even at departmental level, at the level of directors, they say that we will not be able to understand here, it does not match our foreign policy priorities, and all kinds of similar tricks. But what do you want from people whose life dream is” – and these are not my words, but the names of the businessman! - "are in such a position that he is on duty for four or 10 years to live in a state-paid hotel or apartment in Paris, Rome and to walk by reception?" And I will finish this quote by saying to the businessman: 'They have that life going on there while they have gone through 26 plus one reception, plus the adoption of another third country that is not a Member State of the European Union. It can also get addiction from fine pastries and second-class wines.’ And that is all the contribution to the foreign policy that we have had! And now we're going in points. I read Mr Rinkēvičs's report and this report contains a very interesting phrase: "Bilateral cooperation between Latvia and Russia takes place in areas that are not subject to sanctions, such as transport, logistics." I am sorry, Mr Rinkēvičs, what exactly is the cooperation we have in the field of transport and logistics when we have empty ports when we have to give the railway? One of the richest Latvian companies we have to give, because there is no cooperation in fact anymore - and it is not because we, as small dogs, go to the fence about things where we have nothing to do, and we get nothing from it either economically or otherwise. And I can give you examples that the same barking does not happen to the other fence when they violently treat peaceful demonstrators in the Netherlands or when they are in Latvia... People write letters about their singing at the Freedom Monument on 18 November with a fine of €500. And you are talking about protecting democracy in other countries! We should start protecting democracy in our country and end talking about other countries. And at a time when we end up talking about other countries, maybe we will also start to see its cargoes. Because, how can it be... Mr. Rinkēvičs, that's exactly your responsibility... that there are cargoes in Klaipeda (the ports of Klaipeda show it), but in Latvia - not? We can continue on this subject with a question from the hall... You are talking about the value and union of the rule of law that is the European Union. Union of Value and Justice. I just named values... on what you are not talking about: to strike down the peaceful population of the Netherlands sitting in the grass. The full internet is with the following video, last week it happened. There was no condemnation on your part, Mr. Rinkēvičs. But not about it. I will talk about promoting fair competition, which seems to be a priority and one of the fundamental values of the European Union... the values of the rule of law, as you write. And that was as if it were... And then the question is: how exactly does the association agreement with Ukraine promote fair competition in Latvia - a Member State of the European Union? Allow our internal market to flow with the European Union... European Union health standards... European Union animal welfare standards are not close to non-compliant production?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I understand that we must stand by the fence and fight for the brothers of the Ukrainians, but do we allow the Ukrainians to strive for the standards of the European Union by opening up actually our market and putting our businessmen at risk of bankruptcy and putting our children at risk of even the same salmonella in our family? Do you know, Mr Rinkēvičs, how often such cases are detected when these products are imported into the European Union from Ukraine? I think you don't know. And I can answer: every month it happens. And more. If we are talking about this fair competition. These open standards and the lowest requirements, which in principle destroy our entrepreneurs, Mr Rinkēvičs, are your direct responsibility. You're not a businessman. You stand for something else, but not for businessmen in our country. But the main responsibility of the Foreign Minister is to lobby the interests of the people of our country! And in this respect, I have a question that you cannot read in any line across that almost-hour-long report. What has been done to lobbying the interests of Latvian companies abroad? Are you, together with your party member, Mr Kariņš, in the multiannual budget of the European Union, whose adoption you are very much responsible?... Is that so? What has been done? Which Latvian companies have you decimated? Maybe you can even list your fingers on one hand, but I'd rather hear by industry. Which then we have the competitive sectors that our country has... competed against Lithuania, Estonia... Or something like that? But I can call you the opposite. And the opposite thing is the so-called financial sector capital repairs carried out by your party, and so you are also responsible for this ‘capital repairs’. And it has the most direct connection with a foreign country, because the financial resources in this 'capital repairs' you have made flowed mostly to other Member States of the European Union. What did you do, Mr Rinkēvičs, so that these funds would not flow to Germany or any other Member State of the European Union, but would stay in Latvia? Just name one job, just one of your decisions. Without fine pastries and second-class wines in those salon lion reception measures. What did you do to keep these finances in Latvia? And there's another thing here. You are talking about exotic countries, embassies in Australia and Latin America... and so on, but perhaps in such a section of the annual report you should tell about how much such an embassy costs in one or the other exotic place and what contribution to Latvian citizens and Latvia... mainly for the economy from the fact that someone in your colleague will enjoy... Like Solvita Aboltiņa, who is also from your party... He will enjoy his political career, as he says, the end of an exotic land in an exotic embassy. And there would have been a need for a precise list of embassies whose consular missions abroad have brought us with a plus sign of the funds that are relevant to our economy. It can be examined incrementally mathematically. And by the way, no matter how paradoxical it would be... you can, of course, then call me the representative of the Kremlin or something else... I have a silent suspicion that the mission and the embassy with a positive balance - in this case I think from an economic point of view - is still an embassy in Moscow. I know that it is unpopular - to say so, but purely mathematically so, unfortunately. And so the question is: is it wise to talk about violations of human rights in the East if the same violations of human rights take place in the West and in our own country, where human rights are restricted every day in the last year and are violated to unprecedented proportions? We live today in a totalitarian society, not an open society, where everyone has the same rights, where everyone is protected in the context of human rights. That is not the case, Mr Rinkēvičs, and you too are very, very, very responsible. And more. Some of the issues that should be discussed today concern your policy, which you are making, condemning or not condemning one of the other European countries. I do not know whether you, Mr Rinkēvičs, have been given a mandate, including - the Saeima - to condemn Poland or to condemn Hungary, or to condemn any other country for its chosen policy. I would like to remind you that it is not part of our country: what policy is being pursued by Hungary or Poland. On the contrary, we... Our region, given its foundations and our economic interests, should stand up for those things that are being discussed in Poland, and perhaps also those that are being discussed in Hungary. But we should not stand for values that are not typical, have never been typical and, thank God, will never be typical of Latvia. Latvia will always be a land based on conservative values, I am deeply convinced of it, and there will always be a land where the father will be a man and the mother will be a woman. And so it will be at all times, because there are not only natural laws, such are the laws of God, Mr. Rinkēvičs. And at the very end. I have criticised you last year on these same issues... One of these issues was mentioned last year in the same debate. A year has passed, and once again we are reading a bureaucratic, empty text - without any economic coverage. And I'll give you another example. Mr Rinkēvičs, you say that the United States is your strategic partner. And, by the way, there is a Prime Minister with American citizenship from your party. This means that we should be able to hide the interests of our citizens in America. And here I have a question for you about the so-called pandemic: what have you done to decipher that the Americans help us to provide medicines, vaccines and everything else? What have you done? Which one have you called? Or once again you limited yourself to the cabin lion's moves, to fine sandwiches and second-class wines... Embassies, admiring each other? What have you done in practical terms for the benefit of Latvian citizens, for the benefit of the health of Latvian citizens? I'm reading statistics that there are no vaccines available in Latvia. But we have cooperation partners from America, we have a Prime Minister from America! Then we use our strategic partners! Why haven't you done this, Mr. Rinkēvičs? That's about health. That is why, Mr Rinkēvičs, you are responsible most of all - as Minister for Foreign Affairs! - that in our country there is still an emergency situation, that people cannot enter barbers and cut their hair, can not buy gloves and books for children while in Estonia you can do it, Mr. Rinkēvičs!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U92	Thank you. The name of the Member, Inese Ixten.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U93	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Sir, Dear colleagues! I would like to say a great deal of thanks to the Foreign Minister for his meaningful presentation and note that today's debate in Latvia takes place at a significant time. The growth of Latvia since regaining its independence is beyond doubt. I'm from that generation, when when, in the morning, the radio heard an anthem that wasn't an anthem of Latvia. And we young people sat down and thought if it would really be the moment when the USSR collapsed and the radio will broadcast the Latvian anthem. Then it seemed almost impossible, and many were unable to believe it, but I believed it because history proves that the powers of the powers are collapsing. And now we live in free Latvia. In the 1990s many of the countries of friendship and cooperation, from the Nordic countries, went to Latvia... he went to us and taught us how to build his country better and better. There was a huge and intensive work in ministries and other institutions to adapt Latvia's legislation to the regulations and directives of the European Union, thus ensuring Latvia's integration and accession to the European Union and to the Schengen area. We did this - Latvia is located in the European Union, and now Latvian experts and officials are going to developing countries to help ensure democratic elections in other countries by monitoring them and giving their opinion. Members of the Saeima also go - as part of the Latvian delegation of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe's Parliamentary Assembly - to developing countries. In this way, we helped the Ukrainian people to prove that their presidential elections were democratic and fair. In other republics, however, it was possible to observe how unfair it was, and the election of the president of Kazakhstan was the most striking example. It was hard to see people fighting for democracy but unable to do anything. Belarus did not even invite OSCE observers to the presidential elections; this meant initially that the elections would not be democratic. Every time we went to the election observation, we first met with the Latvian consulates abroad. There we were always welcomed, and there we were given all the information we needed, so I thank all the foreign institutions that are working so well to ensure all the necessary measures. I would like to remind you that, at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, Latvia has set, as its main priorities, the prevention of international trafficking in human beings, the prevention of violence and the priority that I have set for it, digital security, because the digital environment is, as we know, a tool that can also be used for very bad purposes, including terrorist attacks. We are living in a time of rapid change and rather difficult political conditions. Therefore, we need wisdom and political maturity to protect Latvia as a country and our citizens from various shocks. I would therefore like to thank our Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Rinkēvičs, and all the staff of the Foreign Affairs Department for the good work that has been done so far and wish us endurance in future work on behalf of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U94	Thank you. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U95	Thank you, honourable Speaker of the Saeima. I will ask you to combine the time of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U96	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U97	Dear colleagues, Today's debate has such a special holiday... a global nature. I would like to talk about details. Part number one. A pandemic highlighted many different problems. And one of them is action and action in crisis situations. Naturally, this problem is specific to almost all countries in the European Union, and especially to the European Union as a whole, namely the European Commission. A year has passed since the epidemic began and, to be honest, many forms of action... The solutions coming from the European Commission are very late. What does this indicate? First of all, this shows that there is no mechanism for action to be taken in crisis situations. This calls for a certain foreign reserve initiative, because this action must aim at ensuring that decision-making and, in particular, their implementation, is as short and effective as possible. This requires the development of such a mechanism and may even be enshrined in the Treaty of Lisbon. Part number two. The sanctions that have been talked about very much today - they are multiplying, they are expanding, and despite, as Mr Kirštein has already said, who... the doubleness of many sanctions... I can mention, for example, such an example that the Turkish army - Turkey, as we know, is a NATO member state - has been occupying the territory of Cyprus, a Member State of the European Union for many years. And those conflicts between Cyprus, Greece and Turkey go most and expand, already on the economic agenda. There are no sanctions there, it is only about the fact that perhaps we should talk about this matter. A sanction and two ends. It is not always clear what end will be stronger. And in this case, when it comes to imposing sanctions, it would seem to me that one time, too, look at the effectiveness of the application - what is the result of the fact that there are many different sanctions that are affected and the result is achieved. Past practice has shown that the application of sanctions in no country has produced the desired results. Part number three. The report and the Prime Minister speak about Latvia's opposition to the Nord Stream project. I would like to know where Latvia's national interests are here. The long-term relations between Russia and Latvia in the field of energy supply (they already have more than 30 years) showed the opposite - that there were no days, no hours of problems. So it looks like a blow under the belt. Why? Russia? Russia will find and already find other interested parties who will want to buy Russian gas. It's a blow under the belt for Germany, because Germany... I think the Minister knows this very well... has adopted a programme of abandoning nuclear power plants from nuclear power as a source of energy. During the transitional period - until Germany moves to solar cells - there will be a need for some equivalent that will be able to replace nuclear power, and that is gas. It is therefore a direct blow to Germany, which is the largest donor in the European Union. Whether it is productive or far-sighted, I have great doubts. And the number four of the detail. Maybe it's a little detail, but... We are now undergoing a reform of the municipalities. 119 municipalities have established and maintain relations with their partners in several countries. Now, when the number of municipalities will drop to 43, would it not be appropriate if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would help the newly created councils to sort out this relationship? Perhaps to give them more and stronger impetus, so that there would be a greater effect to be achieved, and try to keep certain, I would say, a continuation of what had already been activated and what has been started? And finally. National interests and electoral interests are very different. National interests are meant for the long-term and sustainable development and existence of the people and the country. Election interests are immediate interests. It would be very good if, in developing and implementing the country's foreign policy, we were to think of real national interests, not part-the-election interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U98	Thank you. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U99	Good afternoon, very honourable Chairman of the Saeima. Hello, Minister for Foreign Affairs! Hello, fellow Members! I ask you to combine the two times of my debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U100	That's it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U101	Thank you. I have asked for the floor in this Saeima now in the traditional foreign policy debate, no matter how the Head of the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly will give his views on Latvia's close foreign policy, if I may say so. With the so-called close foreign policy I understand Latvia's foreign policy cooperation primarily in the Baltic area, that is, with Lithuania and Estonia, but not only. I would also like to touch a little on cooperation in other formats. These forms of cooperation are also described in a concentrated way in the annual report of the Foreign Minister on the work done and the planned activities of the country on foreign policy and European Union issues under discussion today. It is true that it is mainly about the activities of all of us in the particularly important area of health care this year, as well as the strengthening of security and the promotion of the closely related, further economic development in key areas - in the areas of joint development of energy and transport infrastructure. However, it has to be said that significant results of cooperation over the last year in the Baltic region have also been achieved in areas such as education, culture, environmental policy and others. The annual report by the Foreign Minister might suggest that cooperation with the other two Baltic countries - Estonia and Lithuania - is self-evident, without any significant problems, despite changes in governments, despite changes in the composition of parliaments after the elections, and so on. In the stages of peaceful development, in large lines, this is the case, but not in crisis situations, where previously opened forms of cooperation have suddenly been forgotten and the principles of "everyone for himself" or "his shirt closer" and so on seem to work again. And this is not only about the Baltic; unfortunately, it is even more about the European Union and Europe as a whole. I will therefore talk about both the good and the shortcomings in Baltic cooperation. In 2020 the Presidency of the Baltic States was in the form of the Baltic States, both in the Baltic Assembly and in the Baltic Council of Ministers. Thus, to a large extent Estonia was the country that set up the agenda in these forms of cooperation, but that does not mean that Latvia was a passive follower of this agenda set up by our neighbours. There were enough issues on which representatives of the Latvian delegation were the initiators of their inclusion at least on the agenda of the Baltic Assembly. This year, 2021, is the year in which the Baltic Assembly, the interparliamentary organisation of three Baltic States, will be able to look back on its activities for 30 years. In these years there has been both a strengthening of cooperation and greater confidence in the cooperation force and... There have also been periods of relaxation in the Baltic parliamentary cooperation. I think that in the last decade we have managed to stabilise and make self-evident this transnational... an element of interparliamentary cooperation, demonstrating that cooperation in the form of interparliamentary cooperation alongside intergovernmental cooperation plays an important role in strengthening cooperation and in terms of the best arguments of the partners. Of course, this format of cooperation, cooperation between the Baltic Assembly and the Baltic Council of Ministers can work successfully only in interaction, together with the already established cooperation between the Baltic Assembly and the Nordic Council, the Benelux Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the GUAM, the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference, the Baltic Sea Council and other international cooperation organisations, as well as the European institutions - the European Parliament, the European Commission, the Council of Europe - which was already discussed today by Inese Voika, a member of the Bureau of the Baltic Assembly. From my experience - I think I have been actively involved in this cooperation since 2011 - I can say that this is also happening in reality, and this - in interaction - is also the subject of an annual report by the Foreign Minister. Of course, 2020 was a special year - from March onwards, the Covid-19 pandemic raised new challenges in virtually all areas of our lives. However, the Baltic Assembly has not stopped cooperation with any of the partners that I have listed during the pandemic. It has only changed the form, mainly through remote communication and joint decision-making. However, each of these forms of cooperation has its own role and function in the common system and also its own responsibility. I would like to remind you that the role of the Baltic Assembly in this interaction is laid down in the statutes of the Baltic Assembly, according to which the Baltic Assembly can apply to the Baltic Council of Ministers with suggestions and recommendations, as well as request from the Baltic Council of Ministers a progress report on the implementation of the tasks given to the Baltic Council of Ministers in the resolution approved by the annual session of the Baltic Assembly. And so this cooperation is also really being implemented. At the same time, this means that it depends to a large extent on the ambition and sustainability of this cooperation, not only for the interests of one country and its citizens, but also for the common interests of the entire Baltic region. Therefore, I would like to thank my colleagues not only in the Latvian delegation to the Baltic Assembly, but also the other Members of the Saeima, including the Heads of several Saeima commissions and the Speaker of the Saeima, Mrs Mūrniece, who were actively involved in the events organised by the Baltic Assembly last year, in committee meetings, seminars and so on. Thank you for their contribution to the joint parliamentary vision of development in the Baltic region! In particular, it should be stressed that this contribution to joint work and the achievement of common foreign policy objectives has been made regardless of whether the relevant Members of the Saeima belong to the ruling coalition or to the opposition. As I said, the Presidency of the Baltic States in the form of cooperation in 2020 was Estonia, which took over its Presidency from Latvia and, with the beginning of the new year, transferred it to Lithuania. The theme of cooperation for the work of the Baltic Assembly for 2020 was expressed in three words (in English): partnership, trust, future. Of course, the global pandemic and its new challenges were a test of the Baltic States partnership, mutual trust and shared vision of the future, as well as cooperation within the framework of the Baltic Assembly. This led to changes in priorities and ways of action from March of last year, when Covid-19 started to have a significant impact on the Baltic States. On 5 May 2020, the Bureau of the Baltic Assembly discussed the issue of Baltic cooperation during the first months of the pandemic and acknowledged that cooperation in many critical areas was not satisfactory in the implementation of the principle of "everyone for themselves" which has made the common situation in each country more complex, not improved, in some cases. In this context, the Bureau of the Baltic Assembly addressed the governments of the Baltic States with a statement - the necessary solutions for coordinated prevention of the pandemic, as well as the need to develop and implement a coordinated plan between the Baltic States to manage the pandemic and prevent its consequences during the recovery period, without neglecting also the aspect of ensuring economic activity. I think we were heard at least in part; this was reflected in much more intensive and coordinated action by governments and in the coordination of policies to combat the pandemic in the coming months. The second unplanned external circumstance, which introduced adjustments to the agenda of the Baltic Assembly and its Bureau, but which also strengthened the common positions of the Baltic States, expressing common views to international organisations, was the events in Belarus during and after the presidential elections. This scope of the Baltic Assembly and its Bureau in strengthening democratic principles in our region, too, while being a specific information bridge between the Nordic countries, the Benelux countries and Belarus, has already been mentioned in today's debate by Inese Voika, which is why I will not touch this area further in my speech. Now, a little more detailed than the work of the Baltic Assembly and the progress achieved in 2020. Compared to other Committees of the Baltic Assembly, the Covid-19 crisis had the greatest impact on the agenda of the Committee on Health, Welfare and Family Affairs. The agenda previously set by this committee was almost entirely amended and accompanied by the need to discuss pandemic-related issues, including health lessons learnt during the crisis. The Committee has addressed issues such as the health crisis (detailed - in relation to the development of medical supplies) and the remote consultation of doctors, as well as the lack of medical staff, and so on. The second issue for this committee was the issue of cross-border cooperation. With regard to the so-called Baltic bubble, social and employment aspects were also addressed. The agendas of several other committees of the Baltic Assembly have also been adjusted, but to a lesser extent, while maintaining the discussions on current topics and finding solutions. The Committee on Economics, Energy and Innovation, in cooperation with the Committee on Natural Resources and Environment, worked on the implementation of the Rail Baltica project, on the single gas and electricity market, on the regional approach to the development of an artificial intelligence solution, on recommendations regarding the strengthening of the circular economy, on joint renewable energy projects of the Baltic States, including on joint wind farms in the Baltic Sea. On the other hand, the Committee on Security and Defence of the Baltic Assembly, which was able to hold its sitting on-site at the beginning of March, dealt with a number of important issues relating to defence cooperation - control and management of the external border, as well as disaster prevention, disaster preparedness, response capacity, crisis management and social protection. Crisis management and ability to cooperate actively... adequately respond to them. In this area, the members of the Baltic Assembly have already been warning governments over the last few years, saying “Friends, not good!” - Long before this phrase was made by Mr. Karin. This was a subject which, as a member of the Presidium of the Baltic Assembly, was supported hotly by a former member of the Saeima and also by a former leader of the Latvian People's Front Romualds Ražuks. Unfortunately, Parliamentary concerns about the low level of cooperation in civil crisis situations were not heard in good time, and the consequences had to be enjoyed in reality. Now, a little bit about the results of the work of the Baltic Assembly in numerical form. At the conclusion of the Latvian Presidency of the Baltic Assembly at the end of 2019, the resolution of its annual session adopted 100 recommendations to the Baltic Council of Ministers and the governments of the Baltic States. Of course, with the adoption of this resolution and the recommendations it contains, no one could imagine that, after a few months, our lives, priorities for cooperation and opportunities for cooperation will change significantly, also affecting the priority given to specific recommendations in government cooperation in the current situation. Nevertheless, from the 100 recommendations adopted by the Baltic Assembly to the reference moment, i.e. on 6 November 2020, when the annual session of the Baltic Assembly took place, 25 recommendations were fully met, and the number of such recommendations has increased to this day (for example, by concluding the cooperation agreements recommended by the Baltic Assembly between the governments of Latvia and Estonia and Latvia and Lithuania - on cooperation in border control and border management - and thus implementing these activities in life). At least another 48 recommendations were launched and their implementation continued. And that means that, overall, about three quarters of what the Latvian Parliamentaries had recommended to governments during the Latvian Presidency of the Baltic Assembly have been fulfilled. Of course, about one quarter of these recommendations, with which implementation was not successful, did not find a response, but they are different in themselves, and their degree of relevance is different. Well here, let's say, as such one unfulfilled recommendation, I would like to mention that... On 31 December 2020, the Memorandum of Understanding on closer cooperation between the Baltic States in the field of higher education, research and innovation, and the Baltic governments, mainly the respective ministries, have hesitated to review their existing cooperation experience and develop a new vision of cooperation. And so I could continue on many of these areas of cooperation. How good, let us say, in our view, the Baltic Assembly has started its activities with the Baltic Culture Fund. It is a pleasure that the Baltic cultural ministers have found a solution in the literature of the winners of the Baltic Assembly to translate works into the languages of all three Baltic countries. At the end of this speech, I would like to mention that Lithuania has taken the Presidency of the Baltic Assembly in 2021. Lithuania has chosen the slogan “Together we are stronger!” - “We are stronger together!” . On priority measures, on the other hand... Lithuania is moving the economic and social stabilisation issues of the Baltic States, building a strong security and defence community in the Baltic States... interconnected energy and transport networks in the Baltic States and a secure society and a quality living environment. And at the very end of my speech, despite some of the critical aspects I mentioned in my speech, I would like to thank Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs and the staff of the Ministry under his leadership, as well as other ministers and ministerial and other institutional staff who, last year, helped ensure the successful work of the Latvian delegation in the Baltic Assembly. In particular, I would like to thank the Interparliamentary Relations Bureau of the Saeima, its head Sandra Paura and its employee, Ingrīda Sticenko, the Secretary of the Latvian Delegation of the Baltic Assembly, for providing organizational support for the work of the Latvian delegation. We hope for the same good cooperation in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U102	Thank you. I closed the debate. After the debate, Mr Foreign Minister, would you like to add something, explain?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U103	Yeah. I hope you hear me now. Thank you, fellow Members. I will combine the answers to questions or rehearsals from a number of Members with the final words. Briefly, about what Member Jūlija Stepanenko said. We will, obviously, always be in two different camps on issues relating to principles and values. We will always be able to debate a lot about what is then the double standards that are, let us say, what is primary, but I think there are things in which we can agree with each other. And one thing is that we have to achieve... and Latvia has done a lot on the international stage, but it is certainly also an internal political issue... to ensure that there is no hate speech, no hatred towards different groups of society, whatever they are - social, religious or sexual. And, from this point of view, I would like to remind you that Latvia became the founder of the International Alliance for Religious Freedom last year and, together with similar-minded countries, did a great deal to defend religious freedom in the world, including Christians... religious freedoms, both in Asia and elsewhere in the world. So... from that point of view, this issue in Latvia's foreign policy is also well positioned. What we have to understand for ourselves is that sometimes in our hot internal discussions there is something that I certainly cannot accept; whether they are social networks or something else, that is another issue. The other thing that Mrs Stepanenko mentioned (and I think this problem is a little out of date) is that it is an opportunity for our Diaspora, our compatriots outside Latvia, to take care of... As appropriate... e-signature. I have to say, we have made changes to the relevant laws in good cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior and with your support, and an electronic identification card is being issued to them. It was a problem, it is perhaps still a problem, but it is being worked on, and it is being dealt with. Mr Bondara, I completely agree... Africa is mentioned in the report, but... I agree that Africa's vector is essential to the actualisation of both economic and political activity, and, of course, at the end of the pandemic, we will, as far as possible, activate it. I have to say that a number of events planned last year were simply cancelled, including the European Union African Summit, a ministerial meeting, where there was also a business forum and where we had already started working with colleagues from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I would also like to... A number of Members have referred here to concrete support for entrepreneurs... I would like to say that this is a rather sensitive situation. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is very much in favour of those businesses and entrepreneurs who have had problems outside Latvia, giving them the maximum support - be it Ukraine, Azerbaijan or any other country. This is often done with sufficient discretion, because not all companies want - for their own or other reasons - to abose these things. And I've also received... and we are also working on the problem mentioned by Mr Bondara. Just as we've helped a lot... And where the embassies are open... you can look - over the last five years there's a growing volume of trade, and that's talking about itself. Consequently, from this point of view, we are always prepared to work together - as far as possible - to solve the problems. I'm also grateful... I have many Members who have drawn attention to certain issues, and we are addressing them. Mrs Beitneres-Le Gallas mentioned something that seems to me to be unfounded. Well, I understand that we have many voters with different views, but I cannot agree that Latvia's position on Belarus was late or without a spine. It was absolutely clear from the first day - from my statement by the Prime Minister, from the President of Latvia. The Foreign Affairs Commission engaged, the Saeima engaged. It may be better, not to accept criticism, but to try to explain and show that the position of the Baltic States in all possible ways has been quite clear. But, Mrs Beitneres-Le Gallas, you see, we've already got enough Members here who think that it's a principle, most importantly, that there's some way we... Perhaps let us try in some way supposed economic interests, which may not even often be the economic interests of the state or society, but the interests of one single oligarch or hemisphere, be afraid. We are ready to work with the Commission on Foreign Affairs, as well as with Members on the issues that you have mentioned. About Armenia. I think that here, though, we have to work together, given the extremely sensitive nature of all these issues. Mr Geidan talked about the bruxitis and its impact on the European Union, to a large extent, too, that the brx... that the European Union is under pressure from politics towards the Member States, as I say. I think that what happened in 2016 will still be worth many dissertations, studies and political discussions. But it's clear that the break is to a large extent... very... has led to a different direction of thinking both within the European Union institutions and within the Member States, as shown by public opinion studies. I think that here may not be rushing with such scenarios worthy of apocalypse, but we need to think about the reasons for this, starting from such a common anti-European anti-British society, being an island state, to, let us say, the specific challenges of 2015, 2016. But it is important that we all - the Saeima, government, society in general - also participate in the work of the future European conference, where we discuss our ideas, because here too... Mr. Geidan, I said that at the beginning... you see how diverse opinions are in our society and in our Saeima on value issues, on certain other things. My approach is now quite, quite clear. It is only by talking, not by trying to rehearse one another, trying to understand, that we can achieve greater cohesion among our societies. And in this respect... this is work and responsibility for us, politicians, Parliament and the Cabinet of Ministers. Mr. Budder! It must be said that it is time to try and blame the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that it has not actually achieved a change in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly where, however, the Members of the Saeima vote and work, it would not now be too correct. But we are always ready to work with you all and seek and help... also how to improve... and how to work... between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Parliament... And thank you also to Mrs Iksten when she mentions the work of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. I note, but I didn't say one more important thing... I've already said that in my speech... and in response to previous Members' statements... Mrs Golubeva talked about the fact that we have significant cooperation, of course, with the United States, with Canada, but not least what we can give in the context of development cooperation. Several Members have also said this, and I also said in my speech that, yes, this is one of the issues where we have good cooperation with our non-governmental organisations, we simply lack resources. I hope that the Saeima will also support the next budget... and also to the support of government colleagues here, but... I fully agree with you that these are crucial issues. Thank you, Mr Dolgopolov. I recorded several of your ideas with interest. We have a long discussion on individual issues, we do not want to expand it here today, but I always have an interest and joy... I am also ready to discuss with you when we discuss national positions in the Committee on European Affairs. And, Mr Vucanas, thank you very much also for our very good, long-standing cooperation in ensuring cooperation between the Baltic Assembly and the Baltic Council of Ministers. I think that is the work that you and your delegation... all Members from different parties invest in it... And even when we didn't have a chance to meet here now... In Tallinn... November... But we had a very good exchange of thoughts. That's... Yes, not always simple, yes, not always easy, but joint projects are moving, cooperation projects are developing. That is also to a large extent the merit of our Members. And I recorded the things you said, and we will take them into account. There were also questions about where to get acquainted with the cost of that or another embassy. Ladies and gentlemen, very recently, both within the Committee on Foreign Affairs, within the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes) and at the sitting of the Saeima, all the explanatory memorandums with specific cost indications have been available (and are still available), but I can say only one: the past experience of opening the embassy, whether it be in India or South Korea, or in the United Arab Emirates, has shown that trade volumes are actually growing, and I am sure that this will also be the case in Australia. Moving to the final words, thank you once again for the idea of a change of mind. These were unique discussions - they took place remotely, digitally, but they took place on the 100th anniversary of the international de iure recognition of our country. I think that, as critical as it may be, sometimes a change of thought, as we disagree with each other, the quality of the discussion - I say this every year, and I do not pretend - is growing. All the speeches are well developed. This does not mean that we agree with or agree with each other, but the quality of the discussion is high, and, believe me, many things, many remarks are taken into account, and our foreign policy course is also being adjusted after this debate. I think that this debate has shown that we are different thinkers, because we represent a society with very different views. And that is our role as leader of the people, as ministers, to achieve as much as possible a common understanding of the tasks and things that need to be done. This debate, in fact, was about everything - from the issue of vaccines to the question of the Arctic. And it shows how much complex our country's foreign policy is, how many very different challenges our country's diplomacy needs to tackle, and we will continue to do so. We in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, you in the Saeima, colleagues in the government, our President, all those who are interested in foreign policy... in a sense today, we are symbolically launching the next centenary of our country's diplomacy. Let us start with this in a little difficult circumstances, but with some optimism. What I have seen from the point of view of everything that has happened over this hundred years is that there is one thing that we cannot do - and I am sorry to hear about it every single moment in the debate too: we cannot sit on two chairs as a small country. We can't walk along the rope, thinking that we will be able to do it elegantly. We must have a clearly defined policy and we see ourselves clearly in Europe, we see ourselves clearly in the West. And that means we need to be active, we also need to act. And it will not be that we can talk: then there, in our neighbors, you hit someone, but, you know, we're going to try and run some of our small projects here. You know how that will be? It will be just as it has already been in history - in the end we will lose our friends and allies and not benefit from them. But with friends and allies, we will gain more. We're already getting it. The last 18 years that we have passed with the great deal of integration into the European Union and NATO... We became a member of the European Union in 2004... they'll be, I'm sorry, 17 years old... shows that the standard of living is growing: that we are not always capable of investing and spending this money wisely - that is another thing, it is already our national decision; it is not a Europe that is making us wrong to put that money somewhere. And then we try to linger others. Its responsibility for our country starts here in our country, and only then can we trap others. As we sometimes feel, our policy will be very clear: together with our friends and allies - about values, about prosperity, because only in this way can we develop and protect our country. And I would say that the next centenary is inspired by Chakste and Meierovics, rather than trying to go on modern Kirchenstein and Latch roads, as one of them was very willing to call us to it today! Let's be consistent, let's work together, and - I'm going to reword one of last year's mostwing sayings - in foreign policy, friends, it's going to be okay! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2185-U104	Thank you, Mr Rinkēvičs, both for the report and for the important exchange of views here at the Saeima sitting. Dear colleagues, Consequently, the Foreign Minister's annual report on the work done and the planned activities of the country's foreign policy and of the European Union have been examined. It's time for a break. Registration of Members. Registration is over. Interruption until 5.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
