ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2210-U1	Dear Members, Honourable Members! This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. On the agenda for the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, trust or distrust. The draft decision ‘On the approval of the Ombudsman’. Honourable Members! I would like to briefly explain to you what the procedure is here in the e-Parliament when deciding on the draft decision on the confirmation of the Ombudsman. Three candidates are nominated for the Ombudsman’s post. In line with the parliamentary order, the vote on all candidates must take place at the same time and vote openly with the ballot papers. A candidate shall be considered elected if, in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 23 and Article 24 of the Satversme, at least half of the members of the Saeima participate in the vote and the candidate has obtained an absolute majority of the votes of the Members present. At the remote sitting of the Saeima, i.e. here on the platform e-Saeima, voting with ballot marks will take place when the e-Saeima Members are filling in the electronic electoral sign on the platform. In particular, when making your choice, be aware that the “About” mark should not be made for more than one candidate. You can make the mark 'To All' if you want to vote against all candidates, and you can submit an election sign that does not contain a mark, but such an election mark will be considered invalid. We are therefore starting to examine the draft decision on the Ombudsman’s approval. Member of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs Artus Kaimiņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2210-U2	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Hello, dear colleagues! Technically... Am I heard? You hear me, huh? Okay, thank you. So, colleagues! The Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs has examined the nominations for the office of the Ombudsman nominated by the Members of the Saeima. We had three candidates – Juris Jansons, Krišs Lipšāns and Edgars Zelderis. The Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs listened to the view of the Ombudsman’s position candidates on the solutions needed in the field of human rights and good governance and prepared the draft decision of the Saeima “On the approval of the Ombudsman” in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 31 of the Rules of Procedure. That would be all for me, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2210-U3	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Members have applied for a debate on behalf of the Group, using a previous application to the debate. And as Member Jansons spoke in the first debate... On behalf of the Group of the National Alliance. Please also apply in the electronic system, Mr Janson. Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2210-U4	Hello! The Group of the National Alliance will vote in favour of Juris Jansons as Ombudsman. We have so far assessed the activities of the Ombudsman in many areas, including care to prevent gross violations of human rights – Latvian discrimination in the labour market, unfoundedly and out of the reach of Latvians demanding mandatory knowledge of foreign languages even if the foreign language is not to be used at the workplace. In 2018, the National Association submitted amendments to the Labour Law, which applied against discrimination against Latvians, imposing undue pressure on Latvians to use a foreign language. The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs then awaited opinions of various institutions and organisations before taking its decision. The Ombudsman was the only one who saw discrimination in imposing a foreign language and, when analysing the prevention of discrimination, was based on the Constitution. Mr Jansons pointed out that the Constitution was based on considerations that the state language is Latvian, so the state must be based on the assumption that all citizens manage it. If the function of the public language, including private law, is in fact not ensured in the employment relationship, it is discrimination against the public. As a result, a norm was introduced in the Labour Law – the employer has no right to request from the employee the skills of a specific foreign language if its use is not included in the job duties. If the use of a foreign language is not necessary in the performance of his duties, the employer shall not have the right to prevent the employee from using the state language. The use of the state language in both labour relations and society as a whole is still to be strengthened, therefore we acknowledge that the analysis of the Ombudsman for the prevention of discrimination provided an even broader scope for the prevention of discrimination, and let us look at the Ombudsman's legal assessment of the solutions to these issues through legislation. The political centre of the National Alliance has always been a concern for children. With regard to children's rights, our views with Mr Janson seem to have always been consistent. For many years now, there has been an active Ombudsman's concern for the equal rights of children to receive education. Much remains to be done in the field of inclusive education. Although several positive changes have taken place in Latvian education policy in recent years, it is still not sufficiently inclusive for people with functional disabilities and orphans. Work still needs to be done in this area. Juris Jansons has always stood up for the right of children to live in the family and not in institutions of care. State policy still needs to be developed to adopt children by Latvian families, to support foster families so that orphans not only with the letter of the law, but also with the heart burn for the interests of every child. We have no doubt that Juris Jansons will ensure that the state authorities and society as a whole respect children's rights. The Ombudsman has also argued that the legislator should decide whether to adopt children abroad or not, and has requested legal clarity and certainty even if adoption of Latvian children abroad is allowed. This work has not yet been completed by the Saeima, and Jur Janson's name here will be very important. According to the Ombudsman, the institutional reform of child rights protection systems has only one way – the decision-making function of orphan courts in custody and guardianship matters must be handed over to courts, but such a possible development in legislation will also mean that the number of judges who specialize in matters of child rights and family law will need to be supplemented. When the Ombudsman comes with such initiatives, a valuable discussion could take place in the Saeima, which could result in the improvement of child custody and custody system in general through legislation. We cannot claim that the opinion of the National Association will always coincide with the opinion of Mr. Jansons, but the experience and competence of the work so far shows that Juris Jansons would continue to have authority and cooperation in the position of the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2210-U5	Thank you. In the next debate, the word for Member Vita Anda Steel, who will speak to the Development/About Groups, will speak. on behalf of the Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2210-U6	Dear colleagues, The institution of the Ombudsman has been operating in Latvia for decades as a vigilant eye that helps to see human rights abuses, shortcomings in executive power, robust legislation and mistakes in state policy, which prevented everyone in Latvia from enjoying equal rights. The power of the Ombudsman is his authority, there is no forceful means, but the final instrument – submission of cases to the Constitutional Court, pointing to systemic deficiencies, which run counter to the rights guaranteed by the Constitution. Development/About! highly appreciates the active actions of the Ombudsman when addressing the Constitutional Court. Social justice, which concerns the Ombudsman, is also an important issue for our group. Human rights have not been abolished or suspended during a pandemic. I welcome the fact that the Ombudsman has addressed current problems, including the provision of accessible and high-quality distance education. In the Ombudsman's annual report to the Saeima, we heard about the fact that the Ombudsman's work has led to a small number of problems. However, despite the work of the Ombudsman, we can still list many areas where human rights are not adequately ensured in Latvia. Does the State take sufficient action to achieve the deinstitutionalisation objective? It is this policy instrument that will provide the necessary support for people in their homes, so that people with disabilities can live fully in society and be equal members of our society. Why the accusations of international institutions against Latvia about human dignity in closed institutions for 30 years? But there is still a lack of adequate response from the executive. We expect the next Ombudsman to act vigorously so that these accusations can finally be removed from the agenda of international institutions for Latvia. Discrimination in Latvia is increasing – both in everyday situations and in laws. The role of the Ombudsman is to ensure that everyone can exercise their rights in Latvia without discrimination on grounds of gender, ethnic origin or sexual orientation. The Ombudsman has an active and effective role to play in the prevention of discrimination, whether it be individual cases or shortcomings in legislation affecting different groups of people, or attempts to strengthen discriminatory attitudes in our Constitution. We invite the next Ombudsman to focus more actively on ensuring legal equality and good governance principles, including access to distance education, state and local government services. The Saeima recently adopted amendments to the Ombudsman's law. The Ombudsman will now have two terms of office. The norm enters into force in 2022 and does not yet apply to these elections. The need for a time limit was justified by the fact that such rotation would provide an active, energetic, fresh-viewed Ombudsman of the age. Today, however, I am calling for Mr Janson to be approved. An Ombudsman who has already served for two terms of office. By re-electing Mr Janson, we are granting a credit of trust. The third term – this is a challenge for you, Mr. Jansons, to prove that you will fight actively for every human right in Latvia with a new energy influx. We await a loud and clear voice of the Ombudsman in the public space of Latvia, looking at human rights during an emergency situation, engaging in discussions on both issues that are on the Saeima's agenda, such as amendments to the Constitution, and on those issues where the existing legislation and practices of executive power lead to a violation of the rights of individuals. Today’s world is facing new challenges for human rights. And there is a need for a modern and age-relevant voice of the Ombudsman, addressing new challenges (e.g. hate speech, disinformation and democratic practices in the virtual space or the use of artificial intelligence in relations between individual and state). Colleagues, I call today to support Juris Jansons as Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2210-U7	On behalf of the new Conservative Group, Member Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2210-U8	Dear colleagues, We will immediately vote in favour of the Ombudsman. There are three candidates. I would like to direct Edgar Zelder on behalf of my group. And it is precisely because the previous speakers have already said that a fresh look is needed at the institution of the Ombudsman and his activities. Thank you to Mr Janson for his work. Two deadlines are absolutely sufficient in a democratic country to hold such an important and responsible position. I think it would be a very good example that we do not claim... and do not lead as Saeima, do not support a person for another term. It is very important that we get a new candidate for this very important body that protects human rights, who has applied for the same, which has a fresh view, indeed, of all this very complex sector. The area of human rights is confrontational today even, let us say, on an issue such as the situation of the community. What I would like to say is that in Mr Janson's annual report for 2020 it is, in my opinion, a great mistake to point out that human rights are above the situation of the community. I'd like Edgars Zelder to get into this post... Indeed, he has shown a new view on this subject during the discussions; he has been in a very large number of institutions, where Mr Janson has not been or has not been at all for years. I think there is a need for a new energy person here, with a new perspective that could also help our society as a whole to show that we are moving forward with new candidates, with young people who can bring change in this very important sense and bring human rights into line with national law, as Ritvar Janson has also emphasised. I call for support for Edgars Zelder's candidacy, precisely because there is no political power behind him, he is a politically neutral candidate. Jansons, however, has been growing up with political parties for 10 years, and his relationship with at least two is clear. I would ask you, though, to think and decide for the good of a young man... as a new candidate for this post. I call on you to support Edgar Zelder's candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2210-U9	We are continuing the debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2210-U10	Dear President, Members and also Ombudsman candidates! Several decades ago, when the Ombudsman was set up as an institution, it was a very hot debate, we were, of course, also under pressure from neighbouring countries, from all the institutions in which we were going to join, but in essence the Ombudsman is a defender of people, and I am glad that such an institution operates in Latvia. It could not be said that the first Ombudsman, who was a judge, was a successful choice, but the current Ombudsman has shown some human experience and also professional experience. I would like to note two very important things, in my opinion, which have been done by an existing Ombudsman. One of these was the discussions on free education between 2010 and 2012, which resulted in important amendments to education legislation. At this point in time too, it would probably be worth continuing activities on free education, knowing that learning in the new context, training in modern conditions, including using technology, is once again exposed to a certain risk of not becoming free education. Therefore, I would call for these free education issues – I am thinking of general education – to continue and not lose sight of them. Yes, there is also serious progress in the last two years, including decisions of the Constitutional Court, which means that from a legal point of view our legislation really needs to be reviewed, especially if we are talking about the level of poverty of pension beneficiaries or the protection of seniors. I very much hope that this will continue in the activities of the Ombudsman as well as on the agenda of the Saeima – to defend our seniors so that their lives are decent and worthy of human rights and can be comparable to those of seniors in those countries that today's government refers to as our example. But I would also like to mention two things that I think should be taken very seriously in the future. First. I would like to talk about what freedom of expression is in Latvia, what it is today, especially in these last two years, how many political corrections have been set, what we can say, what we cannot say, whom we complain about and whom we do not complain, and why people are talking less, less and less, and perhaps not talking at all. I think this is a question for the Ombudsman – to take care of our freedom of expression. And the second. I think that when we talk about the creation of a national state, we are talking more and more about Latvia's role in thinking about those who are in our country's minority. At this point, I am once again thinking of the integration process and the education of minorities, especially with regard to children. I think it is the role of the Ombudsman to look not so much at whether Latvian is threatened, because after 30 years of existence and once independence is restored, it seems important to talk about this at global level, not at national or Latvian regional level, but to make sure that minority children are able to receive such education, especially when talking about pre-school education that their families want. If families want to maintain the possibility of using their mother tongue in education, then of course this should be allowed at the pre-school stage of the minority. I think that this is an internationally appreciated or given task of the Ombudsman, regardless of what we are going to elect. I call on you to vote in favour of Juris Jansons, but I wish every winner every success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2210-U11	The name of the Member, Andrejs Clementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2210-U12	Good afternoon, honourable Members! I will express the group's opinion on the elections that we are talking about today. The Ombudsman... Of course, we are electing today a person who will take care of human rights for the coming years, and we need to make a decision by checking and knowing what people did before that. I would like to say that Juris Jansons has shown that he is not afraid of anything: he is not afraid of the ruling coalition, he is not afraid of the Prime Minister, he is not afraid of, let us accept, the Minister for Welfare. He very bravely submitted four applications of the Constitutional Court and won the court. He is the first to have made many million investments in the social sphere. He achieved with his victories that people will receive a very large supplement to their minimum income this year. The guaranteed minimum income, minimum pensions, pensions for people with disabilities will receive much more this year because the Ombudsman wins the court in the Constitutional Court, not because the Minister was active and took care of his sphere, and received this money from the Ministry of Finance, not because the Prime Minister considered it to be our priority, a because the Ombudsman proved in the court that our people do not receive such income to live at least well. I do not say that this is the end of the process, that we can live with those victories for a long time, because it is clear that what was vignified had not yet been implemented to the end of the legislation. I believe that the law was amended erroneously and in the near future the next Ombudsman (I very much hope that it will be Juris Jansons) will have to submit a application to the Constitutional Court again on whether the judgment of the Constitutional Court was correctly treated and enforced. My subjective opinion is that it has been incorrectly implemented and that it will be necessary to raise this issue again in the near future. It was a majority-forced opinion and a weak position of the Ministry of Welfare that we do not have an algorithm in legislation today, how we can count minimum income, nor – how we pay them, so in the coming years the fight against poverty will be very active, and I hope very much that the next judgment of the Constitutional Court will be as objective. SASKAĪJA therefore discussed for a very long time whether Jansons had fulfilled all our expectations and whether he was defending all people in Latvia. Of course, there were different opinions, but what was achieved in the social bloc... That's the main thing we appreciate, that's the main thing we noticed... and this year it's a positive balance, a social theme – it's his merit. That is why we will be voting today in favour of Juris Jansons and we hope that he will not forget the fact that there is still a long and much need to work on this topic so that we are not the poorest country in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2210-U13	We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2210-U14	Dear colleagues, I wanted to hear at least one speech from a CPV LV in relation to the candidate they had nominated, but for the time being, before we have received this speech, I would also like to express my support for Mr Lipshan on behalf of myself and on behalf of individual non-group Members. When we met Mr Lipshan, when he was already nominated as a candidate for the Ombudsman's post, we became convinced that Mr Lipshan had a fresh view of the Ombudsman's post, the Ombudsman's duties. He has a rather interesting view of how the whole plan should be taken into account when drawing up the annual state budget, so that we do not get the situation that we have now with the salaries of individual professionals and with regard to the guaranteed minimum income. So these things must be at the heart of the budget and must not create any patches after the luxury things were brought to everyone, including Mr Kariņš. I therefore also call on those colleagues who may not yet have divorced or think, but to consider the possibility of supporting Mr Lipshan as a candidate for the Ombudsman's post. If Mr. Janson wins this time, I hope that Mr. Lipshan will continue his work and maybe we will see him as an Ombudsman in the next term, because I believe that Mr. Lipping is quite a perspective, an educated and also humane candidate, who could certainly be well placed to take care of the most vulnerable people in Latvia and to fight for justice in legislation as well as in the application of the law. I call for the support of Kriš Lipshan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2210-U15	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2210-U16	The President of the sitting. Colleagues! I will talk today about the issue that has been offended in the debate that there would be candidates... Who holds this post – these two deadlines would be sufficient, and after these two deadlines should come to someone else just because a person has worked so long. And according to this logic... we see what has happened. We can see that this logic has already appeared, for example, in the shift of the Head of the Central Electoral Commission – the only reason why we changed the Head of the Central Electoral Commission was that he had worked for a long time – not that he had done something wrong in his activities, but that he had worked for a long time and that he needed the kind of things he needed. And then a man is searched for somewhere forcefully and found, and at the end of the post a person who may not be suitable for this post is found. Here, I think Mr Janson's position at the moment is certainly also that he has worked, he can be criticised, but at the same time he has done a lot. He has done a lot in various areas. In those areas that I personally have more to follow: housing has been given attention to many difficult issues, including social protection, social security, issues that have often failed to be brought to the attention of all governments, ministers, but Mr Janson has succeeded in doing so... And in general, this institution of the Ombudsman, I think no one will deny, he has raised a completely different level of quality. And everyone respects the Ombudsman, especially after winnings in the Constitutional Court. At this point, I think it is very difficult to propose a change to the Ombudsman only because he has already worked for two terms. That is the logic behind which we would lose a very strong person who is an expert in his field. What, then, do we offer to place ourselves in place? The site offers a person on the side of the New Conservative Party who, unfortunately, has failed to prove himself by leading a municipality of a not too large size. It is not even a city, it is a small municipality in which he has demonstrated in his undertaking that he is unable to manage projects or to respect the principles of good governance. To offer such a person at the moment for such a high position is, in my opinion, disrespectful of the position itself. Let's throw it at all... In my opinion, it seems very smooth that the comparison of Mr Janson at all with this candidate you have proposed is being made. I will support Mr Janson, and the Group of the Greens/Earthers Union will also support Mr Janson, because we value people in their ability to do the quality of the work they have been entrusted with, looking at what they have done before. And Mr. Janson has proven himself with his work. I call on you to support Mr Janson. And I also wish Mr Lipshan, who is a candidate, every success in this nomination. In any case, he is a new candidate. I, too, had the opportunity to get acquainted with his vision, and I think he's got a lot ahead of him in politics. Thank you. I call on you to support Mr Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2210-U17	Name in the debate for Member Aigars Bikšem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2210-U18	Hello, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I also wanted to say a few words in favour of Mr Janson. I think that the Ombudsman's position is very difficult because the Ombudsman is elected by the Saeima. Hence, a person who has no such strict character might want to be subject to the power to look at the situation in the country with legal protection. But at the same time, the Ombudsman... When he becomes an Ombudsman, of course, he is not a representative of the coalition ruling the Saeima, but he has defended all those who need protection of rights in Latvia. So I think... I would like to say that Mr Janson has proved by his work that he is able to preserve his spine and defend the interests of the groups that are least protected in Latvia and, of course, sometimes also, by coming into conflict, I will not say, but in opposition to the interests that prevail. I just want to say that it is a great system that proves to be viable, and that opposition to such interests has been demonstrated. I would like to say that I will certainly vote in favour of Mr Janson. Thank you very much. Please support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2210-U19	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2210-U20	Yes, colleagues, after hearing all the debate, my nature... Well, I have to calm myself a little and say that, Artus, now you can't say it for one reason. I don't want to talk to the candidates about their good and bad things, their works – done, unmade, historical works, the works of the future – for one reason: they can't defend themselves here, and they can't say the opposite, whether it's true or not, but we're sitting like... on such a high stage, and now we give our marks to someone. That would be wrong, because they cannot participate in this debate themselves, and I think that talking to people without giving them the floor is wrong, but it would perhaps be a question of the parliamentary order roll that candidates may also speak in the end. But I wanted to address the whole society. Dear people of Latvia! Everyone has the right to know their rights. And you can't shoot yourself because you don't know anything and maybe you don't find it on the Internet right away. I am talking here about rights. I would ask everyone in Latvia really questions where you don't know the answers in the Ombudsman's Office. I am sure you will receive these answers. I think that this Ombudsman's instance is, at present, an inquiry office, if you may say so, a reply book for a very large number of questions that the public does not know. Let's assume whether they're community issues, or current restrictions, or property issues, or what... Please contact the Ombudsman, visit the Ombudsman's website www.tiesibsargs.lv, ask your questions and you will be answered. Please use this opportunity as it is the main work of the Ombudsman's Office. So, my colleague, I'm not going to talk to any of the candidates, I'm not going to say who's good, who's bad or so on... Just as they are unable to participate here, they are not given the right to speak here. Now, therefore, vote according to your own conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2210-U21	I closed the debate. Mr. Village, you spoke in the debate, but do you want to say something more on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2210-U22	By your conscience and conscience, please vote. On behalf of the Commission, I will no longer say anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2210-U23	Thank you. So we have reached the first round of votes. Please activate the first round of votes with voting marks! Voting time is one minute. Please, let's vote! Dear colleagues, During the first round of the vote on the Ombudsman, 98 electoral marks were issued, 2 election marks were deleted, 92 election marks were recognised as valid, there were no electoral marks declared invalid. Votes cast for candidates: Juris Jansons: “for” – 68, “for” – 24; Krišs Lipšāns: “for” – 8, “for” – 84; Edgars Zelderis: “for” – 15, “for” – 77. Juris Jansons has therefore been elected Ombudsman. Congratulations to Juris Jansons on his election to the Ombudsman's post! Dear colleagues, Consequently, all the items on the agenda for this sitting - so only one of us had - have been dealt with. I remind you that 15 minutes later, at 15.15 a.m., we come to a new Saeima sitting. This is the fourth remote emergency session of 4 March. Only registration of participants. It's been a success. I'm closing the sitting.
