ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U1	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! The second remote sitting of the extraordinary session of the Saeima on 4 August 2021 was opened. On the agenda: consideration of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance” (No. 1127/Lp13), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. And the alternative draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance" (No. 1131/Lp13). Member of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs Andris Skride. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U2	Hello, colleagues! So today we were handed over to this draft law promoted by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance”. The Commission's meeting has already taken place, and we have improved these laws editorialally, and we have added another important proposal, on which I will still tell you when we come to an alternative. And this particular draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. The Commission rejected this. On behalf of the Commission, I ask Members not to support this draft law, and we will continue to support the Commission's drafting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U3	Please call me! We will vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 1127/Lp13) which the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs has asked to reject! Please, let's vote! For - 5, for -59, for -4. Draft law has been rejected. So we start by looking at the alternative draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance" (No. 1131/Lp13), first reading. Member of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs Andris Skride. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U4	Yeah, thank you. So we're going on with the alternative bill. The very nature of the draft law, which of course has been preserved, is to extend until 31 December of this year the period during which special targeted grants have been granted to municipalities so far, so that municipalities can use money for a special crisis benefit from the Covid-19 families. So this has been saved, and this we... This stage was until 1 July, it was decided, and we see that it is necessary to continue to do so, and we extend it until 31 December. Second. The Saeima's Legal Office edited this in editorial terms, and we put it in an alternative. And the third thing that was done in the Ministry of Health together with the Ministry of Welfare and also... I have to say, we had a meeting with palliative care associations during the summer, where we found such an acute problem that children under the age of 18 can receive both palliative care and children's hospital to receive this special psychosocial rehabilitation programme, but when the child is over the age of 18 (for example, becomes 19 or 20), this care is unfortunately discontinued. And so with this second thing that we added, we ensure that, after this programme, children will be able to receive this palliative care up to the age of 24. This was supported by the Ministry of Finance and by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Health Ilmārs Dūritis and the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare Evita Zālīte–Grosa. And this – an alternative – was created together in the Commission. And let's start by asking for the urgency of this alternative bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U5	Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance" (No. 1131/Lp13) declared urgent! Please, let's vote! For - 70, for - 1, for - 1. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U6	So, you hear me? Thank you. So the urgency is recognised. And please also support the draft law at first reading on behalf of the Commission (the Commission was unanimously supported).
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U7	Please call me! Vote on Alternative Draft Law Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance (No. 1311/Lp13) support at first reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for consideration of the proposals and the date of examination of the draft law at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U8	Colleagues, we ask from the Commission... and the Legal Bureau also supported... Yes, if none of the colleagues objected, the commission would be asked to support it immediately, without a re-examination by the committee, even at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U9	Please open a section on the procedure. Do Members have reservations that we are in favour of an alternative draft law at today's second, final, reading session? Please log in. There is no objection. If that's the case, please call me! We will vote in favour of the second final reading of the draft law on social services and social assistance. Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda – draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” (No. 1128/Lp13), first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U10	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Today, the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined ongoing amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection and supported the specific draft law. I'll tell you more about what it's about. The draft law covers quite a number of things, but the main areas that it regulates are: The draft law provides for epidemiologically safe services both in the private sector and in the public sector, and obliges the employer to provide an epidemiologically safe working and learning environment. The draft law provides that services provided and received by persons holding the so-called interoperable Covid-19 certificate, which attest either vaccination or congestion, will be considered as epidemiologically safe services in public institutions. It is also planned that the certificate will be required for providers of health care, long-term social care and social rehabilitation institutions and education. It is intended that the employer in the public and private sector will have the right to require the employee to hold a certificate attesting to vaccination or congestion. The employer will have the right to ask for this on a case-by-case basis, on the basis of certain criteria and, of course, taking into account the principle of proportionality, the rule of law and equality. The criteria according to which an employer will be allowed to request an interoperable certificate would be as follows: if the employee has direct contact with the customer during the performance of his duties, as well as if the worker has an increased chance of getting infected (for example, he meets a large number of people who are not aware of the health situation). It will also be possible to require a certificate in cases where the employee's duties are critical to the public, as well as to ensure continuity of the business or establishment. If the employee has not obtained this certificate, the employer, with his consent, will be able to transfer the employee to another suitable job or to ensure the performance of his duties at a distance – for a period up to the time of obtaining the certificate, but for a period not exceeding three months. If this is not possible, the employer will have the right to suspend the employee from work until the employee has obtained this certificate. It is planned that this will be possible for a maximum period of three months. It is planned that after the maximum period of suspension, the employment legal relationship with an employee who, without a valid objective reason, will not have obtained this certificate will be terminated if it is not possible to employ him in another job. The employer will therefore have to look primarily at whether this person can be employed in another job, and only then will it be possible to decide whether or not to dismiss the person if, for objective reasons, the person has not obtained this certificate. It is also planned that the employer will not be able to terminate the employment relationship with the pregnant woman as well as with the woman during the postpartum period for up to one year, but if the woman is breastfeeding – throughout the period of feeding, but not longer than until the child's two years of age. The draft law also provides that the National Medicines Agency will have to determine and pay compensation if the complications caused by vaccination cause serious damage to the health or life of the person. It is planned that this law will enter into force on the day following its publication. On the part of the representatives of the government, the Commission was asked for urgency for this draft law, and within the Commission the urgency was supported by the arguments and given that it is approaching 1 September when training should be resumed on the ground. There would also be an urgent need for people who, however, decide that they will be vaccinated and receive this certificate to be able to pass this full grafting, such as both of them, at the same time before the coming into force of this law. Similarly, people would need certainty, so this draft law should also be declared urgent. That is why I call for this draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U11	Thank you for your report. Ladies and gentlemen, we must first vote in favour of the urgent nature of this draft law. One Member may speak in favour, one against. Please apply for a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Are you going to talk about or against?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U12	‘Pret’.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U13	The word 'no' is recognised as an urgent member of the law, Jūlija Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U14	Dear colleagues, Today, many of us have listened to the meeting of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, where this draft law was passed at a very rapid pace. Of course, with all due respect to Mr Rancán, he tried to listen to all the Members and gave the floor, but what we have noticed is, unfortunately, a formal examination of this law. There are the necessary participants from the ministries, the minimum number of words that must be said from each side of the ministry, and the draft law is going ahead. What we also heard from the Ministry of Justice: it was recognised that this draft law was prepared in a great hurry. And that is the fact that you cannot cut it out of the committee's record, so it was done very quickly, so the ministries themselves and the Ministry of Justice themselves are calling for a reasonable deadline for submitting proposals so that this haste can be corrected. And here we come to the most important question that the most important draft Saeima law – both this Saeima and, I think, the previous Saeima bill, which will affect the fate, health and life of very many people, will be looked at in the following way: urgently, with a little drawing on the proposals submitted by the Ministry, without fundamentally changing the meaning of this bill, but driving forward, because we have 1 September and other things that we should manage. Of course, this hope that this forced vaccination story could solve the issue of the vaccination coverage is misleading and has been confirmed by all the social partners who took part in the Commission meeting today. Jobs will be empty, children will not be able to be trained, because teachers will be lacking, teachers will have to leave work if this draft law enters into force. That is why I very much hope that today we... at least one reasonable member of the Saeima will be able to vote against the urgency of this draft law. I call on all Members of the Saeima to do so, because you will have to be responsible for your votes in connection with this particular draft law, because I do not see any other important draft laws throughout the recent history of the Saeima. This is a very important draft law, and the votes on this draft law will be those who will be framed on the wall, and the name of each Member, just as we now see those Members who voted for the independence of the Republic of Latvia will be engraved, if not on any tablets, then in the hearts and minds of each voter, they will remember all this. Therefore, please, honourable colleagues, do not be foolish, do not support the urgency of this draft law and, of course, do not support this draft law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U15	Mr Aldis Gobzems has applied for a speech. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U16	Hello, Latvian society! Hello, Members of the Saeima! People of Latvia! I turn to you. And I turn to you with the following. In fact, today, the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia will once again vote against you, against the people of Latvia, by introducing compulsory vaccination by nature. They will come with their spics and a door for teachers, a door for your children. And they won't answer...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U17	Mr Gobzem, I am very sorry, but we now have a debate...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U18	Don't stop me this time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U19	... of urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U20	I am talking about urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U21	We are talking about urgency, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U22	Do not stop me when I speak about the urgent need to show this law to Latvian society by voting in favour of those against the people of Latvia. I call on all those who do not want to allow violence, because inserting a needle into the body without consent is violence... I invite all eight to come to the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia tonight. To be at the Saeima at 8:00 a.m. and rebel against the people of Latvia. And stop gingerbing, but rebel against those who want to introduce compulsory vaccination against your will. I call on the entire Latvian society to rise today, because it will be too late later. I call on the public to stand up against those who will not be responsible for your health problems, that you will lose your job, that you may have a loved one dying of vaccine reactions. I call for the Latvian society to end and go out in the streets of Latvia tonight.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U23	Mr. Gobzem, thank you. Your time is wrong. We are debating the recognition of the draft law as a matter of urgency. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on communicable Management” as urgent! Please, let's vote! For - 44, for - 36, for - 1. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U24	Colleagues, on behalf of the Commission, what I want to say. So we listened to all those who wanted to speak, and there were many different arguments. As a result, the draft law was approved at first reading by the Commission. The Commission is also calling for this to be supported at first reading in Parliament.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U25	Thank you for your report. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U26	Latvian society! I'll keep all this. Therefore, compulsory vaccination is required. They will not be responsible, either personally or in any other way, for the fact that something will happen to my mother or my children, or to me or to you, dear viewers, dear citizens of the Republic of Latvia. They're voting. They vote without taking any responsibility, they vote for your compulsory vaccination and introduction of codes, as before the war in Germany in 1933, when some were allowed to go by the trotula and the other was not.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U27	Please choose more correct comparisons, Mr Gobzem, so I don't have to keep showing you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U28	They have no limits. You see, Latvian society, they stop me when I speak absolutely right – absolutely right! They who do not have any medical training will determine whether I am a clean or dirty member of society. They will be the ones who will decide. But it will not. This will not be the case if Latvian society gets up. And the society of Latvia must get up today, not tomorrow, not tomorrow, but today, tonight, after this sitting of the Saeima. Then it's too late, teachers. Then you will be laid off. Then it's too late, pregnant women. You will be required to graft sooner or later. Then it's too late, children's parents. They will come on top of your kids with those spics. They will come and tell you to trust some incomprehensible science. Although science clearly shows that (not to be heard) ... from this shit. Latvian society, we have to stop this scene! And we have to get the courage once. Even if we are being knocked by the police today, we need courage. I'll go to the garage and take the fork with me. No, we will not break windows, but purely symbolic fork with us. Because they're coming with a spry, so we're going to go in front of them. And it's not funny. I want to say – unscrew with your sermons, unscrew from our children, unscrew from the teachers, from all! And if you need to serve, don't know, there's the pharmaceutical industry, or who, and I don't know, has to distribute money and bribes, and something else, steal still today, but tomorrow it's too late, because I guarantee you that as a member of the Saeima, Aldis Gobzems will raise Latvian society. I will raise Latvian society against you – against the Gentiles. You who will vote in favour are against the people of Latvia. You and all the Speakers of the Saeima. Prickling into the body is a violent act, violent, in addition painful act. And we do not yet know the consequences of this. And you will now only vote to divide society into subordination. This is the time when your scene will be put to a point. And this won't be just talking anymore. This will not mean that you are such or this one. We're going to get to work. And we are the largest part of society. More than half of Latvia's society is certainly opposed to compulsory vaccination – both employers and employees, both in public administration and in the private sector. It is imperative to impose on anyone the use of any chemical thing, just as it was mandatory in Soviet times to go to colhoza to work. You could not have gone, but then you, I don't know, to Siberia or where. Compulsory today, dear people, today mandatory... We don't have a compulsory vaccination, I'll be at the Saeima at eight o'clock. Whether you're going to be, we'll see. I'll be with a fork at the Saeima tonight at eight o'clock.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U29	Mr. Gobzem, that's enough! It's... the dissemination of false news.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U30	It's not false news.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U31	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U32	Hello, honourable Members! People of Latvia! This law, which is currently being seen by the Saeima, is probably the most cruel law ever made during the examination of the Saeima, because by its very nature this draft law declares unvaccinated people as unlegitimate members of society. And, following the logic of this bill, the next draft law to be submitted by the government would be to ban unvaccinated people from using, for example, public transport, where people are close to each other, or, for example, shopping in a shop, because shopping in a supermarket is also a service of close contact. According to the draft law that is being put to the vote today in the Saeima, it is not only about the fact that, here, those people who refuse to vaccinate in the field of medicine, education or social services will be temporarily laid off. Whatever the procedure is. And what needs to be done is essentially one point. The government needs to understand that all their policies so far, ensuring the pace of vaccination, are not only inconsistent and illogical, but can only be called by one name – it is unprofessional. And so all the means that could help to increase vaccination in the country and ensure epidemiological safety should be made available to professionals, i.e. medical and health workers. This is about family doctors. Here, it is family doctors who have the hands to prepare the people of Latvia, their minds and health for a normal vaccination process. It had to be done a year ago. The opposition and the SASCAN Members have talked about this for a long time. So far, this has not been done, the summer is in its final form, it is now August. We expect a new Covid-19 wave already in September. That is why, today, we have also been thrown into this bill so that the government can say that, behold, you have been warned that this will be the case, and run, please, to vaccinate. Everything that should be done by the government as a matter of urgency: all the funds that were planned and, with shame today, removed from the Saeima's agenda – plans for a vaccination lottery, where more than half a million were intended to serve and advertise this lottery... request the return of the recipients, the producers of non-professional advertising campaigns against Covid-19, the producers of the failed Covid-19 vaccination campaign. Give me all that money back. Give it back to your doctor, your family doctor. If they have the means to provide themselves with vaccination rooms, means of communication with their patients, money to pay their medical staff normally, they will do the whole process themselves. You just don't know. Well, say it honestly. Talking about this particular draft law. It is not only cruel but also illogical. And it also shows that people who have written it either don't understand at all what they have prepared these norms or pretend they don't understand. Let us start with the same education, for example. You would like to say that, here, the unvaccinated teacher is not entitled to deliver to the pupils. Everyone stay silent about it. This service – a training service – comes from a teacher who? Pupils. You want to say that we will ensure that (A sound break.) ... Will it be prohibited to be in class during the presence process only for an unvaccinated teacher? Is it really not possible to ensure that the training process can maintain, firstly, the distance between the teacher and the pupils, so as to ensure that there is a transparent shield between the teacher and the pupils, as is currently the case for beauty service providers, to ensure that the shield is followed by sound amplifying equipment? I'm saying this because I'm also teaching, just at the university. And I've long imagined all this, how it could be here and in class with students, with the same students. No, we just want to ban, because the government hopes that in this way all the teachers will run and vaccinate. Okay... with an education process where the government wants to state that it is not possible to provide an epidemiologically safe environment to ensure a face-to-face training process... Are you serious? You really don't know how that's possible? More. If we are talking about social care. They're not just nurses, it's like the city of Riga... When a person is asleep, he needs care, and a caregiver comes to him. First of all, you would like to say by this law that a vaccineer should only provide a vaccine client with a service? So the person lying down should be vaccinated because the care service in this case is a close contact service because, forgive me, those people have to simply change their pamper in most cases. How will you ensure this? Okay. You will transfer or dismiss these social carers. Where will you take others for the salary they receive? For that... that you are voting against for the third year, the ruling coalition, against these people, for example, in the municipality of Riga, being paid for more. Who will go to work and change pamphlets for those old people at home? Who will work in nursing homes? It is generally inconceivable to mind, which is written in this bill. And the last one. I will not speak for all 15 minutes, because it is all clear to me and to the Members of the SAMAN Group in this draft law. The last one. Such a little nuance that Mr. Rancan has just stressed. You want to exempt from compulsory vaccination pregnant women, women who have just given birth and breast-feeding mothers, but only until the child reaches the age of two years. Maybe I'll reveal a secret to someone: Mothers' milk is formed not only up to two years old. It is not that the child remains two years old and – hop! - There's no milk anymore. Maybe not quite right my personal example: I feed my third child for five years – five years! And I'm proud of it. And if I were in this situation right now, I would send you, forgive you, to all the letters that are in any language and point out a specific way for people who do not understand what they are doing. I would continue to feed my child despite no ban. This nuance “always the devil and the god are in the detail” indicates that you do not understand what you write the norms and laws. You have written a law that you could simply hate at the moment – hate! – because at the beginning of August to compose something like that means not only to respect members of the Saeima, but also simply to your people, not to respect any people who live in this country and try to solve their failures and failures at the expense of people... And you... Let me say one more thing – you try to make business people, entrepreneurs, your hostages. You try to make them sit and think what is more important to him, this man, an entrepreneur – money or a man... or human destiny. Therefore, I think anyone who today votes in favour of this bill will make the greatest mistake in their lives. I ask you not to support this draft law, either as a matter of urgency or as a normal rule, because there are sometimes mistakes that are the mistakes of fate. I call on you to vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U33	Please open a section on the procedure. Name of Member Evia Papulei. Please log in. The name of Member Evia Papulei for the procedure. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U34	Thank you. In fact, I would ask you, Madam President, to a certain extent... At the time when you stop one of the Members, base it on a rule – whether it is a Rule of Procedure roll or something else – and perhaps leave part of the comments to someone else. I call for respect to be given to every Member, irrespective of who or who it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U35	Mrs Papules, this question is addressed in the parliamentary roll of order. I am responsible for the culture of the debate, and I also define for which I prevent Members from continuing the debate. We are continuing the debate. Please! The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U36	Dear colleagues, The Covid-19 spread in Latvia is gradually increasing again, and the Cabinet of Ministers, unable to achieve an improvement in the vaccination coverage, is taking forced measures. The government intends to create a regulatory framework for compulsory vaccination against Covid-19 workers. On 14 July, the project supported by the Cabinet of Ministers to amend the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection provides that after 1 October, the employer will have the right to dismiss the Covid-19 employee, to define the post and categories of employees to be covered by the Covid-19 certificate, and to inform employees if their job or duties are related to the requirement for an interoperable vaccination or congestion certificate. This regulation also lays down a provision enabling the employer to verify during the selection process that the candidate has an interoperable certificate, in particular where the selection takes place for posts that can only be performed by the holders of such certificates. The amendments supported by the Government provide that, from 1 October of this year, services in state and municipal institutions, as well as services in medical institutions, social care centres and education areas could be provided and received in person by persons who hold a valid certificate certifying vaccination or Covid-19 overloading fact. In cases where the person has objectively justified reasons why he has not obtained the Covid-19 certificate, the employer will not have the right to terminate the employment or service relationship and the situation shall be resolved in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the employment or service relationship. At the same time, the draft law provides that when imposing an obligation to vaccinate for the performance of its work or duties, the State shall assume responsibility for the damage to health caused by the vaccination. The amendments include a clause that compensation would be provided to persons after vaccination in the event of adverse consequences, but the conditions for this reimbursement are not currently laid down in the legislation. Dear colleagues, Of course, the legislator has the discretion to impose requirements on specific professional activities, as far as is necessary in the public interest. The right to freely choose an occupation, including the right to maintain an existing occupation, may be limited, but the relevant restriction must meet any of the legitimate objectives set in Article 116 of the Satversme and be proportionate. I understand and support the desire to protect the public from the disease, but I am in favour of the right of every person to choose freely. Vaccination was, is and should be an absolutely voluntary process. I believe that several government initiatives are very controversial. At least for the time being, it is not clear to me whether compulsory vaccination is compatible or incompatible with the concept of a democratic state. You see, in a democratic legal country, the fundamental human rights must not be limited to the purpose of reinvigorating society. I believe that we are moving in the wrong direction: we are unduly restricting human rights. The draft law provides that vaccination will be compulsory for staff of several institutions. Such a concept is difficult to support. Until now, the government has repeatedly stressed that vaccination is not compulsory, and all decision-makers have to consider whether third parties are allowed to disclose, for example, the history of the patient’s disease and that the employer is not and cannot be competent for the diseases of his employee. Think about it! I believe that the government itself regularly violates the human rights of teachers, medical practitioners and social workers, such as the right to fair pay. It promises everything, but then forgets its promises as such a frantic misunderstanding. The government has been frantic since its beginning. In my opinion, many people already have a reflex – if the government calls for something, it is certainly not good. That is why I am very sceptical about this document. Intrust with government is the government's own creation. Of course, I would very much like students and students to learn here, but I think this can be achieved through other instruments. The government argument is unacceptable. Instead of explaining more what Covide disease is and what vaccination is, rather than explaining the need for immunisation in a consistent and practical way, the National Health Service Vaccination Project Unit organises a costly and comical campaign, which leads people to see that the government does not value them much and thinks that citizens can be brought to vaccination by campaigning. I believe that it must not be manipulated. Such methods cannot achieve the desired result – protection of the public from disease. I support vaccination without compulsion, fear, repression, but with persuasion, with an individual approach. Coercion leads to greater opposition and fear. A transitional period until 1 October is foreseen for citizens to be fully vaccinated before these amendments to the law enter into force. I think that this period is not enough. It is doubtful whether 1 October is the date by which any teacher, medical or social worker will be selected, even if he is not an anti-vaccination activist. However, if the amendments to the law come into force, all these people will have to be released. These people may even prove to be very many. So who will teach the children? Who's going to treat? Who will work in social care? Application of a vaccination certificate may lead to a thorough collapse in education, medicine and social care. In my opinion, the current government is doing its utmost to harm itself. Undoubted bans, lies about the optional nature of vaccination, which later appears to be compulsory. Therefore, before imposing any requirements, the government itself must look in the mirror it has done for a period of one and a half years. I remember very well that last autumn, and especially in winter, when morbidity and mortality increased rapidly, the Cabinet of Ministers had a clear confusion and uncertainty about what to do. The restrictions were illogical and contradictory. All of this was covered by a mess (not to say irregularities) with the purchase of vaccines and the allocation of money to the expensive, unnecessary and incapable vaccination project office. It's not that society doesn't see it. All these people see, evaluate and draw conclusions, and one of the conclusions is that the government cannot trust; its actions in the context of a communal pandemic are questionable. There are no few people who are against the permissiveness of the government and rightly question the geneticity of certain ministers. I believe that family doctors would be more effective in vaccinating. They usually know their patients best. Family doctors know the particularities of each individual’s health or whether the individual can be grafted at all. But family doctors, those who trust society lack the capacity, resources, helpers to reach every patient, talk to him and convince them to vaccinate in their own interests and in the interests of society as a whole. I therefore call for funding from the budget programme 'Unforeseeables', not for marketing, but for the health sector. Trust and money for family doctors, not officials! It is the key to improving the vaccination process. At the same time, I call for the suspension of the compulsory vaccination requirement and for the vote to be taken against the draft law on Covid-19 on the management of the spread of infection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U37	Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U38	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Why does the Greens/Farmers Union not support specific amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection? Why do we stand for voluntary vaccination, not compulsory vaccination? Why do we not support staff sorting in vaccinees and unvaccinated ones? If you are not vaccinated, then you may have to leave work, thereby reassuring this compulsory vaccination for many people as a step of despair. Given that electricity prices have just risen by almost 50 percent for many households, gas prices and total inflation in the country are rising... We are ready to leave people without work if they do not receive vaccination if they have not done so on a voluntary basis. Taking data into account today, they are slightly more than 690 thousand people in Latvia, including absolutely – in my opinion absolutely! – most of us who have voluntarily vaccinated their argument after discussing with industry professionals, listening, reading and analysing, but there are many Latvian companies who have their own arguments, why they have not yet decided to vaccinate or plan to do so, who lack objective, interpretative information. Vaccines in Latvia are currently available for every citizen of Latvia in every district of Latvia for almost 24 hours. This can be done by applying on a voluntary basis. I am sure that if there are no obstacles or any obstacles to going to the vaccination centre or to the place where this vaccine can be obtained, including by applying for a home visit, it will be possible to receive all the vaccines that are available to us in the country at the moment. And it's not a problem. The problem is different. The main problem is what we saw very clearly today in the committee responsible, where government representatives and responsible officials set out to us their vision of why compulsory vaccination is required in Latvia. And, in my opinion, the greatest sign of this problem was - and I would say the most honest one - the head of the State Chancellery, Mr Citskovsky, when he was speaking... when the representatives answered my colleague Mr Bergmanis' question as to why we have not chosen a Swedish model where we see that morbidity and mortality rates are less dramatic, given that in practice the limits were very, very soft or in many areas they were not at all. Children normally continued to learn. The main answer was that people in Scandinavian countries trust the government. And why do they trust? Because the government keeps its word, it does not change its decisions every two or three days... going to the elections, promises one... what they do after the elections... People trust. In our case, given all this long-standing chaos caused by the pandemic, the credibility of the government (not only governments, politicians in general) is very, very, very low. I think we are all aware of this, both the coalition and the opposition, at least part of the opposition certainly. This is also reflected in various sociological surveys. Therefore, politicians explain and invite people to vaccinate... It's quite the opposite... what results we can expect. Instead of setting up a crisis management centre for professionals, choosing and funding professionals, driving regions and people honestly to explain the benefits and disadvantages of vaccines, denying myths and half-truths, and answering questions fairly, we have come to the point that if we do not believe, then forced! Then we force you! Well, if you don't listen to us, then we'll let you go! Where you're going! You will not be able to pay your bills, and the problems will all be as imposed on you. Colleagues, this is not democracy, it is not freedom of choice. In the Commission we are also talking about the issue... for groups for which this possible compulsory vaccination is currently foreseen. These include social workers, education workers, medical workers who have not yet been vaccinated or who are looking for possible additional information. And not just. They are also young families... young parents looking for different information that is missing at the moment. Instead of explaining this information, regularly explaining it rather than making a couple of debates between politicians... And really one or a few debates, yes, quality... but it's very, very little in public media... where professionals, experts answer questions, to a wide range of questions to dispel myths and half-truths, to introduce a clear, absolute truth, so that a person knows what to count on, what these side effects are and what they can be from a blue shoulder to a partial temporary paralysis of the body. Thrombs – where can you form, whom can you form? What to do where to turn? After all, what do we get after receiving the vaccine? We get one little leaf – which is the serial number of the vaccine when we get it. And they tell us, look on the Internet, everything is available there. Where can people find the Internet? They are looking very much, they are also following how other countries have achieved their vaccination results, including Israel, which is one of the world's leaders. At the same time, in Jerusalem Post, an official newspaper, we can only read that many of the vaccinated are also hospitalized, for example, a month ago there was a message that of the 143 vaccinated, which was a month... Now this number of hospitals is much higher... Three percent were partially vaccinated, 39 percent were not vaccinated at all, and 58 percent were fully vaccinated. So what can people find on the Internet? That's official news. We also see... read the same source that a new wave has begun, that it is necessary to resume mass testing, that not all current vaccines help to a specific virus type, that there may be a new vaccine, an additional vaccine, so that the type of virus in question can be stunted in any way so that people become less ill so that their lives are not hospitalized. Many of these questions must be answered objectively, honestly. Instead, we are not making too successful advertising campaigns with a variety of similar ads that we see elsewhere in the world. We can advertise pamper advertising like this, not a vaccine! That's a serious thing. It is necessary to allocate funding to professionals, professionals in the field of medicine who would travel to the regions of Latvia every day as they go to work, to places and people to explain fairly all the benefits, minus what is meant by the vaccine you receive compared to the risk if you become ill if you are not vaccinated. But there should be voluntary vaccination. With coercion and imperative, we will not achieve better results, colleagues! When we ask questions today in the Commission, we hear that there is a lack of staff in the social field. Or by pushing them or partially... part of them, as a result of dismissal, will we tackle this problem? Are we going to deal with this in medicine? Will we address the shortage of educators in education by releasing some of the educators who have chosen not to receive vaccination at the moment? Are we ready, then, to resume our teaching in the autumn? We are at risk of not having all the vaccinations if there is no compulsory vaccination, then in the autumn the training will not come back on-the-spot. Will it not be the opposite? Or do vaccinated people, when imposed by decree as a matter of necessity, not react in the opposite way? Not honestly, directly and accurately explain all the benefits and disadvantages... but honestly. At the Commission's sitting, we did not hear the opinion of experts in constitutional law, or of all this case, which is now... what we are going to adopt at first reading is, at all, a constitutional one. We have heard public opinion from experts in constitutional law that it would be easier for them to defend... Maybe it would be easier to defend... the vaccination of Members, not the vaccination of educators, but in this case we have not heard such arguments. Similarly, we have not heard clearly and unequivocally, when talking about education workers, the argument on how we can be threatened by a tested, healthy educator in person who regularly tests and tests. How, then, does he threaten? Is he threatening a vaccinated colleague? Is there a risk? No, no. He may be threatening himself. But if he regularly tests, we can also catch, perhaps, the further spread... When we see mass testing resume in the world, at the same time we are talking about the fact that we in Latvia are ending the test. Instead of possibly amplifying it to record these cases in relation to the new virus type. This is one type of virus. What other types of virus will we have in the future?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There are many questions. And it's because he's not ready to vaccinate his argument at the moment after the lack of objective information or maybe it's uncomfortable to ask someone, I'm sorry, maybe a silly question... But, as we know, there are no foolish questions, there are only stupid answers. People are busy in their work, in their care, raising their children, caring for their farms, their families, and their ancestors. They have a lot to do with day - to - day activities. After all, the public utility bills will immediately be large in space, all of which will have to be paid for. Should they sit down and seek answers to all these questions, each in their own source? No, colleagues, they don't have to. We must help and come and explain, give experts the opportunity to talk about it, not politicians. We must provide a platform, we must ensure that vaccines are available in Latvia, so that medical staff have everything they need to be able to work quality so that teachers can work. We remember the first wave more than a year ago. People didn't go on the streets, everyone called for two meters, carrying masks, washing their hands, because they didn't know what it was, and people realized that the government also didn't know that it could still mislead them or lie to them. Because they don't know, no one in the world knows. And at a time when we see how other countries are dealing with this issue more effectively, in Scandinavia, Germany, where they state that vaccination will not be compulsory... but no – we want to pioneer and choose another country where vaccination is partially compulsory! Colleagues, all these decisions, this forced dictatorship will in no way contribute to the overall health of our society. Do not encourage us to fight this virus in a targeted and effective way. It can be an endless and endless story if we approach this way. Therefore, neither I nor my colleagues from the Group of the Greens/Family Group can support this particular draft law – either compulsory vaccination or the possibility for an employer to lay off unvaccinated workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U39	The name of Member Ramona Petraviča. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U40	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, Firstly, the requirement for compulsory vaccination unduly restricts individual rights. It should be mentioned that, in addition to the national obligation to combat the pandemic, the European Social Charter lays down an obligation to refrain from interference in the exercise of human health rights in order to protect the public from authoritarian state control. The decision on compulsory vaccination directly challenges the European Social Charter and creates illegal barriers to employment and access to services. In addition, the absence of effective social protection mechanisms through the right not to vaccination leads to direct discrimination by practically disqualifying this group of society from making a non-vacuum choice. The consequences of this decision normalise the unconstitutional functioning, the likelihood of crisis situations without the support of the majority of society. Secondly, it creates a risk of mistrust for the ability of the country to lay down fair and proportionate rules to combat the pandemic. The draft law determines the necessity of compulsory vaccination on the basis of completely unclear criteria in the draft law... objective reasons, for example without requiring a post-vaccination certificate for persons not directly involved in the provision of health or social care services, although epidemiological risks are identical to those in the education sector, for example where the certificate is required. Such an argument allows the compulsory vaccination requirement to be extended to all citizens in principle, challenging the initial need for proportionate rules to combat the pandemic. The effect of this decision would be to create general distrust for the future and previously used means of combating the pandemic. Thirdly. The potential benefits of the compulsory vaccination do not justify its risks. It should be noted that based on the information available on the Latvian Health and Social Care Workers' trade union's website, vaccination only in 50 percent of cases protects people from redisease. In addition, there is a cumulative increase in the incidence of the disease in countries with a high vaccination coverage, which so far has no explanation whatsoever, and no one has tried to explain why this is the case. In view of what I have said about the unclear conditions for compulsory vaccination, this approach poses a risk of apparent safety in the contact of vaccinated workers with unvaccinated customers, such as healthcare facilities. The immediate consequence of this decision is an increase in the number of health-threatening situations based on a false sense of security. The illegality, disproportionateness and risk of health security of this decision do not outweigh the benefits expected by the defenders of the compulsory vaccination. I receive letters from teachers, I receive letters from multi-child mothers asking to appeal to common sense and protect our people's interests, protect Latvians from forced vaccination. I think that I'm not the only one receiving such letters, you're the same. And do you really have holy feelings and petitions for them? People are trying to protect their children – the most expensive thing that people have at all. For all the above reasons, I am calling for an opposition to the requirement for compulsory vaccination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U41	Name to Member Vital Orlov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U42	Hello, dear colleagues! I and very many of my colleagues from the group have been vaccinated. We did this on a voluntary basis and believe that vaccination should continue to be voluntary. Why am I going to vote against the draft law? There are the following reasons. In my opinion, the Ministry of Health did not do everything necessary to achieve the desired number of vaccines, which was marked as 80 percent of the people of Latvia. We remember very well that when the first vaccines appeared in Latvia, a sociological survey had been carried out and that it was known what people, what age, what... What minorities they belong to, with which they are ready to vaccinate. In my opinion, the Ministry of Health, for which this information was available, did not use the opportunity to offer Latvian citizens the choice of vaccine with which they would be ready to vaccinate. What the countries of the European Union did, like Hungary, where one million people were vaccinated with a vaccine produced by our eastern neighbours... San Marino – 98 per cent of the vaccine has been vaccinated with Sputnik V. Chinese vaccine, which is also available in Hungary, is not available to us. I'd like to emphasise that when it was known... and with which the people of Latvia were ready to vaccinate, the Ministry of Health did nothing, and now the government wants to vaccinate the population against their will. I call on you to vote against this illegal draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U43	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U44	Hello, dear colleagues! We went a long way until now – when this bill will come to the Saeima – but unfortunately the Saeima itself cannot solve its question because... If we look at how the Lithuanian Parliament works, they gathered together and worked together for a year back, placed in such glass cages, made around every Member. We somehow want to sit each in our office or at home, not all together. It is not understandable how many of our Members have been vaccinated, it is also a good indicator for the whole nation. If you do not want to be vaccinated, why do we need to be vaccinated? I think that information should at least be published. It is also necessary to publish information on public officials, in particular on the ministers that took their decision. Then it will also be clear that it will be a better campaign than spending money on posters that are in the city and that are not working. The problem is that the Cabinet itself... The Prime Minister himself does not go to the people, does not speak to the people on this subject, but only through the mass media. Through the mass media do not go the positive information that goes when a person stands in front of his people and speaks... or by addressing it. Of course we can go abroad, but if we do not work with our people, then there is no confidence in our government, which is also shown by the numbers... special survey, but if we then want to release employees in such important areas as the welfare sphere, such as the education sphere, as... Even the army is going to fire people just because they don't want to vaccinate... The question is, who will replace them, who will make their work if, according to official data available on the website of the Ministry of Education and Science, last August there were 470 vacancies, of which 150 were only preschool teachers? I suppose there were teachers leaving this winter. Now, of course, no data is available, it is only after 1 September that time will be available, but I suppose that number may be around 500. If we pass this law, it will mean that the teachers will still need to go. Well, then there's a big vacuum... which teaches our children... or one teacher teaches 200 or 300 children in class right away... they're in a lecture. Unfortunately, this issue was not answered by the authorities either. It is also interesting to see how many percent of these professions have been vaccinated. It was known that 40 percent of teachers were vaccinated, are now active at schools, including universities, and want to reach 80 percent, which is not real. We see that we cannot use the vaccine purchased and give it as a gift to other countries, but at the same time there are very many people, especially in the Latgale region, who want to vaccinate with Sputnik V. Don't know why, but they have confidence in Sputnik V vaccine. At the same time, Russians do not have confidence in Sputnik V vaccines; they have confidence in the vaccines used by the European Union. Maybe we can just change? 100,000 against 100,000 – those who want, and then we will see. We will rather vaccinate them with Sputnik V than they will walk unvaccinated. Now that's a topic for government... to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs. A conversation between two countries. We always need to find a compromise, not to play like politics – that only against it. This is about human lives, how we will maintain or not. And more. At that time... When we adopt this law and exempt valuable workers from their posts because they have not been vaccinated, they will have to pay their benefits to the stock exchange and the Republic of Latvia. The question is, how much will these benefits cost? Who has even counted at the Cabinet? It will also be almost like lockdown for Latvia. Let us talk to you better and do something that nobody does, but let us deal with this vaccine! A pandemic goes ahead. We remember last August when the pandemic just started – there were also 20 to 30 infected every day, now we have 100 every day. I don’t know how it was today, maybe tomorrow will be known about today, but in the last days there are already 100 people who have become ill. In a month's time, there will be a thousand. Perhaps it is necessary to limit all movement in the Republic of Latvia, close the border, stop all travel abroad, so that this third wave does not go as wide as in Europe. If you trust that vaccinated people are safe, look at the Israelites! Educated people, smart people. They must have been vaccinated 90 percent. And there they now, from July 1, they opened their borders for tourists and again started to use masks in all rooms, including indoors. They cannot limit it either. I don't think that only tourists brought all these viruses, but something happened in the country itself. And I once again made it clear that they are a wise nation, an educated nation, and they are doing what the government tells them, and they have much more confidence in the government than with us. So I'm calling you to be wise, think about it and not do what you're about... We can all regret tomorrow. We always need to find a compromise with our people and go to open negotiations. For six months now, I have been asking the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption – please tell us the truth about vaccines and what nobody is talking about openly. Unfortunately, such information was not provided. As a Member who is also responsible for his people, I can vote and support this bill if I do it! - doesn't tell the truth? So that the Social Democratic Party will vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U45	Mr. Kirstein, we have six minutes to break. Would you have six minutes?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U46	That's enough.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U47	That's enough. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U48	Member of the President-in-Office. Honourable Members! I am slightly sorry that the commission did not remove from the draft law of the Cabinet of Ministers the requirement for a mandatory interoperable certificate, which confirms the fact of vaccination for those working in the field of education. Why? I think... If, for example, older pupils aged 18, 19 and who are very active can not be vaccinated, then it is compulsory, in my opinion, to ask the teacher to do so. If your teacher’s colleagues are in danger, they may receive a voluntary vaccination. In no case will they be at risk if they recognise this vaccine. So we can't force these students... If there are about 30 students in the class and all of them visit discotheques that are very active, then, of course, these 30 students will threaten the teacher. But, as I said, he can vaccinate himself if he is in some way frightened. What is the practice of other countries? I looked in here. I think yes, vaccination is needed, especially for older people at risk. The Czech Republic, for example, has chosen - we have heard news today - to provide two additional public holidays to those who are vaccinating. I think it's a better idea than a lottery or forced vaccination. In Uzbekistan, however, compulsory vaccination is also introduced, as we have heard. So what do we do – what about North Korea or Uzbekistan or the Czech Republic or Sweden? I have come to Sweden this summer, and I have always been interested in their practice, as well as in the comparison of Sweden and Latvia, because we know that there is no ban on living in Sweden. There worked at schools, shops were open, cafes and restaurants were working, masks were not needed. Yes, the health service recommended that the masks in transport not be removed, but it was just a recommendation. If you want to, you can use masks that you want to not use. And there's an extremely interesting person here. I think that our epidemiologists should take on some experience or at least study the system run by Anders Tegnelas in Sweden. He is Sweden’s main epidemiologist. He believes that natural immunity is much better than that resulting from grafting. Yes, distance needs to be distanced, grafted by risk groups, old people's homes, seniors, but never force everyone to do so. Latvian companies working throughout the last year in Sweden earned very well. It's not just Mr. Oshley's company there: beekeepers, builders... But when these jobs were closed everywhere and the institutions were not working, Sweden, as we know, all the companies were working. And there is an extremely interesting situation. Last autumn, November 14, Anders Tegnel announced that he admitted the error. Why? In their forecasts... Because at that time, from November 7 to November 14, the community became infected by 60 percent, reaching more than a thousand people in hospitals during the week, and the Swedes took extraordinary steps. And what they did – they forbade to sell alcohol after 8 p.m. He did not make any restaurants, no cafes, no shops, but forbids to sell alcohol after 8 p.m. and reduced transport, public transport, services for Christmas trips. They didn't do anything more. Anders Tegnell also believes that natural immunity remains longer – according to some estimates for as many as 17 years – and creates collective immunity rather than that obtained with vaccines. And today, the majority believe that Swedes have this collective immunity. What are they today? I can tell you that I looked at today's data. In Sweden, 14 620 people have died. So, 10,4 million... It is 5.5 times more than in Latvia, we have 1.89 million inhabitants... they have it... against the population of Latvia... 2000 is more than 2600. We have 2560, so practically alike. In Sweden – no panic, no hysteria, no destruction of small businesses. Next. No delta outbreaks occur in Sweden. The same Tegnell says (a few days ago) that the mob, or this new form of delta, is mainly spreading among young people in metropolitan cities. In the third part of the Swedish municipalities, none of the patients were found to be ill at all. How many hospitals are there today? Let us remember – there were more than a thousand in November. How many hospitals do you think today? In Sweden, there are 26 serious or critical patients, some 0.2 percent of the population. So less than in Latvia. It is believed that Swedes have acquired collective immunity and, to some extent, it works naturally. I, of course, did not encourage it in Latvia, the number of deaths for us, as I said, is similar, the number of patients is higher, but we have had panic, hysteria, closure of companies, destruction of small businesses and so on. Is there any point in losing teachers in this situation? Now we... I have also heard – yes, old teachers will go, young teachers will come and they will be very good. But forgive me, go those teachers who still know physics and mathematics. We know what the situation is. A few years ago Liepaja representatives spoke about the catastrophic situation with teachers, such as Liepaja. I am not even talking about rural areas. The disaster situation is in cities of national importance – Liepaja, Rezekne and Daugavpils. In Riga, there is a catastrophic shortage of physics and mathematics teachers. We know that at all, I think only 300 people took care of the physics exam. It is, in fact, an educational disaster. And I think in this situation... I myself have been vaccinated, I am by no means opposed to vaccination. I think it is necessary to encourage voluntary vaccination for groups at risk and for older people by means of various incentives. I think it is imperative to do this in social institutions, in old people's homes, because there's no choice for people there – they're lying in bed, they can't be avoided, they can't resign if they see... They can't keep their distance. Someone can really go in there and infect them. And, of course, the army, the military service. If a person is in a barracks, he can't, let's say, choose. But in schools, I think it's pretty wrong. I think... I hope that the panel will correct this for the second reading. And the last one. Another remark. I am a little afraid that if we really lay off a teacher who refuses to vaccinate, he will certainly turn to all possible courts – to the Constitutional Court, to the European Court – and refer to the 10 points of the Nuremberg Code. The first point is that the consent of all medicinal products and vaccines at the stage of the clinical trial is mandatory. You can also read on the Internet today that Pfizer has just announced that they will only end a clinical trial in September, and that the other vaccine manufacturers have not announced at all when they finish the study. So these vaccines are still at the stage of the clinical trial and never can they without their own consent... with some method of pressing... apply pressure. Since I support vaccination in a voluntary way, I support all kinds of incentives, support, say, military services, barracks, social institutions, but I am strongly against educational institutions. Therefore, unfortunately, I cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U49	Thank you for the debate, Mr Kirstein. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for an interim. I would ask for an interim period of 30 minutes. We're coming back at 17.55 to continue the sitting. Registration of Members' presence. This has happened. In interim – 30 minutes, we resume work at 17.55 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U50	Dear Members, Honourable Members! We shall continue the examination of the agenda of the second extraordinary session of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 4 August 2021. On the agenda – draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management”, first reading. So we are continuing the debate. At first reading on this draft law, the name of Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U51	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Today, like many of you, I will vote against forced vaccination. I will do this despite the fact that I myself have vaccinated at the first opportunity, and despite the fact that I myself have repeatedly and consistently called on the people of Latvia to vaccinate. I will vote against forced vaccination, despite the fact that compulsory vaccination as such has existed almost all over the world for centuries. It happens when we are born. All children must be vaccinated against several diseases on the first day after birth. But, honourable colleagues, unfortunately, our society is in a deep crisis of trust, and the fact that a very large part of society is in principle refusing vaccination is just one of the manifestations of this crisis of trust. Of course, this crisis of confidence is not just the merit of this government, although it must be acknowledged that this government has done a great deal to deepen this crisis of confidence. Starting with the ‘3 × 500’ promises of the withdrawal of the OIC, ending with the claims made by the government that vaccination will be voluntary. Claims made by the government only a few months ago. Colleagues, I will send you a report from the Ministry of Justice, which the Government took note of, dealt with at the end of April this year. Thus, the Cabinet of Ministers itself, for example, in the Regulation of 9 June of this year No. 360... the government itself... stated (please quote): ‘The vaccination against Covid-19 will be voluntary...’. Point 7.3.1 of the Resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of 27 January this year entitled ‘Covid-19 vaccines: ethical, legal and practical considerations’ also provides (please quote): ‘Provide citizens that vaccination is not compulsory and that no one is forced to vaccinate themselves politically, socially or otherwise if they do not want to do so themselves.’ That is why it will be particularly interesting today for those colleagues who are members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to vote on this issue, given that they have probably supported this resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe themselves. Colleagues, today we are unfortunately in a situation where, in this crisis of confidence, the political capital of the government is so low, perhaps even close to zero, when it is unable to address the majority of society... in these circumstances, decide on compulsory vaccination... probably it will not only fail to achieve the declared objective, but it could lead to an explosion in society, which, I have no doubt, perhaps some colleagues today will be quite, quite happy. I would also like, colleagues, to quote one part of the report of the same Ministry of Justice, which, as I said, was examined by the government at the end of April, but perhaps forgot what that report said: compulsory vaccination is an ultimate means of achieving the objective... It should be borne in mind that the obligation to carry out compulsory vaccination may undermine public confidence in the country, which may reduce the motivation for vaccination further. Thus, the Ministry of Justice itself warns that these effects could be quite the opposite. And there is a good question – whether the ruling coalition itself understands what it does in these circumstances, moving forward this final solution to the words of the Ministry of Justice. Dear colleagues, Today, every citizen of Latvia is given an opportunity to vaccinate against the community. Vaccines are free and vaccines are available for everyone. Of course, each can make a choice. And not everyone has such a clear or simple choice. Many have chosen protection from the community, which is best provided by, like or not, vaccines, but there are also many (and there are few people) who choose protection from the possible side effects of the vaccine. And that's the choice of these people. Colleagues, it is important for all of us to understand that these people who have made such a choice – not to vaccinate – do not endanger the vaccinated. First of all, they put themselves and others (unvaccinated) at risk. If they choose not to take the vaccine in a imperative and principled way, it is their free choice. If they choose a community, it's their free choice. They must understand, of course, that, in the current situation, our healthcare system can provide more than a thousand beds and medical care. For those who become infected with the community and for whom its disease will be severe enough to get to the hospital... Those who reach the hospital until all beds are occupied will be provided with medical help and are likely to be all right with them. Those who become ill then (and, if not God, come into such a situation!) When hospitals are overloaded, unfortunately, adequate medical treatment may not be available. I am very sorry that our society has not matured so that there is no need for a tragedy to draw conclusions. At the moment, unfortunately, colleagues, we are in such a position that this government, this particular government, has for a long time not been able to convince, address Latvian society. I think it is very credible that this is the result of the fact that several parties that have formed this government have reached the Saeima with the approach of 'divide and rule' to divide society, and today it... It can be thought... is their political karma – at the time when they try to reach the general public, they invite them to vaccinate, they receive the fruits of their deliberate division, a large part of society not only does not believe, does not trust, but is prepared to do the opposite, quite the opposite of what these politicians are calling them to. So, I repeat, colleagues, going this route of forced vaccination in this situation will be a major mistake for our society. That is why I am calling for it not to be supported today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U52	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U53	Dear colleagues, The Covide virus lives its life, the Latvian government lives its own. Indeed, when the pandemic began, the Latvian government declared war against the virus, declared the state of emergency, as it should, which enabled it to restrict the operation of certain laws, which allowed it to act more or less freely, thinking also that it was responsible. Well, it didn't happen everywhere. But the time passed, there was one wave, the other wave, and the third wave are now in front. And there's been some relaxation. It is now central to the government, not to fight this war with the virus, but to make sure that the war should be in the suit, with the corresponding sleeves, in the famous film The Same Munchausen. The main thing is not the result, but how the government looks in our capital Brussels. Indeed, when it comes to vaccination, we are not first-ranking in this case. And therefore, the main task of this draft law is to introduce compulsory vaccination – perhaps at the beginning of some categories, but in principle it is also meant for all – rather than victory over the virus, but to show Brussels that we are good that we think we are doing that we are fighting. Further, its entire movement is very similar to Lenin’s statement “one step forward, two way back” when it was about starting vaccination and when it was also about how to do it and how to set up a vaccination office, and so on... more than half a year has passed. I remember very well that at that time from this high computer triple I said that we should focus all the efforts on family doctor practices, because that's where information about all patients is available, there's all their history, there's all their biography in the medical section, and it would be the right place to organise this process. A few weeks ago, almost the same was said by the Minister for Health, but it has been over half a year, and this is not only about entrusting this vaccination process mainly to family doctors, but here it is also about how to improve family doctor practice, how to improve and provide them with appropriate working conditions, appropriate pay, workplace equipment and so on, and so on. This is a very serious subject of a long conversation, because when we oppose the Institute of Family Doctors, we are also in favour of laying the foundations for healthcare throughout the country. Vaccination is undoubtedly very important. Examples of vaccinations and vaccination practices worldwide show that it does not rule out the risks of the disease, but significantly reduces them. I myself have been vaccinated thanks, by the way, to the recommendations of a family doctor. But then the question is: will compulsory vaccination produce the desired results also from the point of view of prevention and from the point of view of the rest? Hardly, because you have to talk to people, you have to convince them why it is necessary. It has to be said openly that this is not a panacea and is not a universal means to rule out the risks of disease at all, but it significantly reduces the risk for each individual person. That is true, and we have to talk about it. Second, it would be important to restore free testing practices. Moreover, the wider the testing process will take place in the country, as people will feel safer than they are ill. It will also be safer for society itself, because it is very difficult to escape all the contacts that happen with people in life, in public space and not only in public space. The next thing to do is to offer people free choice of vaccine without delay. It does not matter whether it is certified in the European Union or it is a Chinese vaccine or it is a Sputnik V or any other vaccine adopted in practice in the medical community. The free choice will expand the numbers of people vaccinated, because they will be able to make their decision on vaccination based on the information they have at their disposal, because here, if we are talking about vaccines recognised in Europe, we are talking about certificates. But here, I think it's very important to understand that the certificate is needed as a document. It is meant to be a travel document, first and foremost, and to be presented as evidence that vaccination has taken place, second and second. But the most important thing is immunity that a person can receive or may not receive when vaccinating. It would therefore be another step that would undoubtedly be feasible as soon as possible, which will certainly increase the number of vaccinated people. And the last one. It seems to me that, when it comes to proposals of a kind formulated in the draft law presented by the government, there is also a need to think about the social consequences, the legal consequences and everything else. The main thing here is that you should think with your head, not with emotions and some political calculations. I therefore think that the draft law drafted by the government cannot be supported by any criteria, because it does not solve any of the tasks that the government seems to wish to achieve. I call for the 'no' vote on this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U54	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U55	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues! The virus has become smarter in the mouth, because the virus understands that it needs more bodies to live in. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said about our government, because the law we are currently discussing at first reading, looking at more carefully and also reading not only the articles of the draft law, but also the annotation, clearly shows that, first of all, the annotation is more focused on preventing or discussing or debating possible litigation. Thus, in fact, the draft law, if only annotation is read, is not aimed at the interests of citizens, the defence of citizens, but rather at the issues of legal technology. At least, it confirms this. Secondly. The government and today's discussion in the Commission also confirmed this – the speeches of government representatives actually blame others, but not themselves, do not admit any mistakes, but blame us – we haven't noticed. A bact with a finger in the experience of other countries or in the conditions of other countries, but does not recognise anywhere – and especially not in communication – that the government would be guilty or the government would have made any mistakes. This means that we are guilty of us, the people of Latvia, and it is usually covered by lack of education or some other thoughtful cause. Thirdly. If we look at how the government wants to hide its mistakes without revealing anything more, but to say that the relevant investigative committee of the Saeima will give answers, then in fact this compulsory vaccination shows - let's cover up with such a fig leaf, and again it will be others who make political decisions and probably bureaucratic decisions at this point. In the project, if we wanted to see how the implementation of such a decision has an impact on the national budget or on... any financial impact, it says no, except perhaps the area of social workers, which is mentioned in the passing that there could have any impact. No, there will be no financial impact on the state budget or any other budget, because municipal budgets are also considered to be the state budget. People who have lost their jobs will not have to pay benefits, they will not increase social support in local governments, precisely because the social and economic situation will be even more difficult for people who may not be working in the country, but earn their own living. So this is not mentioned. Also, the question of financial impact, such as the Ministry of Welfare, is unable to say whether any possible impact has been assessed at all. It alone shows that the authors of the bill have not written this law to the public, but more to themselves, hiding with a fig leaf as a mandatory. Another aspect already mentioned by colleagues is testing. Currently, the test will be at a cost. I will add that the level or height of the fee is much higher than in other countries where these rates of morbidity and prevalence are lower than in Latvia, especially today. But all tests will be for a fee, including if you want to do so also for children. Why? And then the Minister for Health mentioned the huge costs that again actually cover up with two things. Errors that are not recognised. And the other thing that seemed pretty funny to me is that, yes, all those kids who want to sit in cafes, so let's try for a fee. And that's our attitude, especially if we look at the demographic situation in Latvia or if we hide the goal of "compulsory vaccination" so that the education system can take place in person. But students, including minors who are still considered to be children, will be tested at a cost and will no longer be covered by the state. In today's debate, I was really most shocked by the fact that basically the politicians were speaking about the positions of the State Secretary or, most often, of the parliamentary secretaries. So the politicians are discussing... politicians are discussing each other's positions, saying that everything is in order, the law is positive, all ministries and officials support it. But, at the same time, there is no answer, and I have not responded to today's debate to how professionals working in public institutions see the implementation of this law, not only in the field of education, but in the field of health, in the field of employer and so on... where it is established that vaccination is likely to be compulsory. This means that the law is not really designed with the idea of how it will be implemented, how it will protect citizens, both those who have vaccinated and those who cannot for any reason do so. This draft law is not to be supported. And, in fact, today's debate has already shown that future discussions are not related to professional answers, with a professional approach, so that the aim – to protect our health – would really be fulfilled, because, to be honest, this is not the aim of this draft law. And what really hurt me most in this debate was a comparison of the main public official... With carrots and truffles. And now I'm going to ask you, colleagues, the question – which are hit with whips and which are fed with carrots? Members of the coalition, is that really your attitude towards our people? I call for this draft law not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U56	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Long Schuplinsk.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U57	Hello! Lobby dyna! Oh, my God! In fact, this bill, too, created a very mixed mood in me, and some of the points that colleagues have already pointed out, I will only expend. The most bitter experience I have had with the Minister of Education and Science is precisely this, the second wave of the community and the situation between January and May. In almost every meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, I repeat that the Latvian government is protecting the places in hospitals (of course, these are always important!) , donating Latvian children. At this point, the Latvian government chooses not just to donate Latvian children and the future, but to donate certain professions. Why is this happening? From January to May throughout Europe, the education process was interrupted only in the most acute moments, which did not hinder the continuation of training by connecting the remote and on-the-spot process, nor did it interfere with testing. And also in our neighbours in Lithuania and Estonia... At the last meeting with the ministers in May, it was stated that vaccination was one of the options (of course it is very important!) , but there will also be a possibility of testing. And I will also immediately point out that I am in favour of vaccination and I am in favour of vaccination of most people, but, certainly, by discussing and following – exactly as the previous speakers have pointed out – the recommendations of family doctors, because this particular moment of choice is not so easy for many. The other thing. If we look at European experience, the number of vaccinated persons in Latvia is very similar compared to Europe. It is high enough between 18 and 29 years old. It is the lowest in Europe for people between the ages of 29 and 45. But the main difference in Latvia is in the risk groups (people over 45 years old). There, in principle, many things have been left unwitting, only promised, but involvement, explanation, and the presence of a family doctor to encourage those who do not receive vaccination have in principle not taken place during the summer. And the idea that Mr Kirstein has already developed, I absolutely agree. To say that the vaccination of teachers can provide a process of presence, is absolutely absurd. And two reasons for it. Mr Kirstein has already mentioned one. First of all, young people are a very active part of society and, of course, will always be on the move. Secondly, all the children will return to their homes all the time... and, as we know, this vaccination process has not been so successful... And then again, this, I must say, the idea used in the Cabinet of Ministers that it is very important not to restart the process of presence, because the elders have not been vaccinated... Either, it does not work at this point, is forgotten or is defaulted for some time. And certainly the most important thing that Mrs Papule also mentioned – carrots and whips, I must say, philosophy. I'll also keep this. I see this “burcan” as 200 million... redirecting the high readiness project; it has caused both this overheating in the construction sector and... Many of the incomprehensible things that led the government to choose exactly that position. And I will say right away: I have not been a supporter of specific projects relating to education, too. The only thing I supported at that time is ventilation, which means that the solutions that were already in place in May had to be continued; the funding that was also allocated to this particular position had to be more precise and targeted at each school so as to really think about air quality than about the purchase of thermometers, or air quality meters, when it was already clear that air quality in 75 percent of schools was either low or medium. That's the first. Second. It must also have been necessary to continue the process of digitisation, which is vitally important, because it is clear that regardless of how further processes progress, preparedness for on-the-spot learning throughout the entire school year is highly questionable. And the third, as I said, is working with a family doctor and most of all with this risk group. This could make it possible to really reduce the incidence of disease. The previous speakers have already made it clear that the possible reluctance of the public to support this compulsory vaccination is linked to the special situation observed in January, May, and this calculation of the cumulative figure, which is valid for densely populated areas, has to be said. And if we look at how the principle of safe regions was created... schools were closed even if... At the moment, one non-school person was ill in the non-existent region of Baltinava. At the moment we hear that the school could be so secure, regardless of the cumulative figure, but the enforcement mechanism, how this learning process will be organised, we do not really see or hear, and these are very serious concerns. I have to admit, like Mr Kirštein, that Europe's experience of both different treatment and respect for democracy and on a voluntary basis has not been analysed and these many assumptions, which have been unclear in May, are being presented more... either totally forced... imperatively, or absolutely, I must say that in a rebuttal way. And that's why I think that the way the government now chooses is a vision, a visionary. It is really, as Mrs Papule mentioned, a fig leaf to just say: we are doing something. But the result as such... it may be frightening for the whole country of Latvia, and it may be frightening for the future of Latvia. I will therefore also vote against the draft law because I believe that it lacks concrete solutions and does not respect people's rights, is fragmented and is segmented into occupations, opportunities... and, I must say, at this point too (not to be heard.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U58	The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U59	Hello, colleagues! I believe that vaccination must take place on a voluntary basis. We live in a democratic country that respects the free choice of citizens. The government should seek other solutions to promote the proportion of vaccinees, but this should not be at the expense of the population. We see a failed communication with the vaccination office... on the purchase of vaccines, vaccination newspapers, vaccination centres... And now the government is turning to the last straw – it is threatened with forced vaccination or loss of work. Even before the law came into the Saeima, the people experienced discrimination in workplaces, universities and other places, as a result of the rhetoric of the government and the expression of support for such methods. Mechanisms such as intimidation, loss of employment and loss of employment, punishment by withdrawal of bonuses or bonuses and other obstacles at work or training places are not acceptable. The financial and emotional blackmail against employees, which most often is used by the employer in informal negotiations between them, is unacceptable. One way is by requiring express tests at your own expense; this is costly and serves as a reason for termination of employment. Workers face psychological pressure, are forced to leave work at their own request, with the loss of the right to receive unemployment benefits or an employer’s allowance of at least one salary. In fact, the worker is completely vulnerable and out-of-court in the current regulation. The same can be said of students. Universities issue internal vaccination or express testing orders, thus creating the conditions for forced vaccination of students in order to continue their studies. Many complaints have been received from home structures, from those working in the armed forces, who have expressed concerns about the systems in place for forced vaccination and harassment. The second largest group of society is students who have expressed displeasure about compulsory vaccination by universities or the loss of a student's place. Therefore, colleagues, in order to continue vaccination on a voluntary basis, I call on you, however, not to support this draft law, the changes to this law. At present, many people are certainly watching this sitting of the Saeima, and they are also worried about their future employment relationship. I therefore call and ask not to support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U60	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U61	Dear colleagues, We can see very well today that the public temperature has been overheated and, if you can say so, all the cooling fluid has been leaking for a long time. We are approaching a very, very high risk of society getting up (and this risk is your risk, dear coalition)... There will be a large number of high-temperature negotiations that the public will stand up and that there will be a great deal of negotiations. And that is what I think has been felt by those who have made a little mistake today in the vote. All this happens naturally, it is not driven by any “foreign forces” as perhaps you want to think Paviluts. It's people's self-esteem, and people's wake up. And I've never seen as much interest and attention in the bill as I've seen now in my short seven-year work at the Saeima. Everything happens naturally. Everything happens suddenly and unexpectedly. What's going on now? What are the arguments from the coalition, which we see shrinking? Less and less... Lies, lies and again lies and also manipulations. The lies that we faced and about which I also reminded Mr Pavilut today. Talking to him at this very long meeting of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, in which this draft law was prepared for first reading, I asked him why Mr Pavluta, however, deceived people with his assurance at the beginning of this year that there would be no forced vaccination. Mr. Pavļuta also deceived society, especially students, claiming that RSU students would not have any obstacles to learning... either vaccinated or not vaccinated, depending on their medical status. We have this documentary evidence, where Mr Pavļuta's replies to the letters from Members confirm that there will be nothing like that. Of course, the students also trusted in Pavļuta’s lies and continued to learn calmly, realizing that they were not threatened. What followed – this rector's order for forced vaccination and for fee tests for those who have not vaccinated, of course, led Pavlut to lie again and say that there will be no fee tests. Now we see that they have really been lies. And unfortunately, Pavilut did not even try to overturn these lies at any time during the commission meeting. The only thing he could say is that he does not agree with my claims. But what we can also read from the public responses that Mr Pavļuta also answered in the past is that on 9 January... We remember that when everything just started and nobody even came to mind that this could end, Paviluts commented on the following phrase – regarding voluntary vaccination: voluntary vaccination is a fundamental principle of vaccination, we do not want to become a totalitarian state. We wanted to clarify, together with the other Members, what was really what Pavilut had meant by this phrase, and we also received an answer. The public answer, where the Sworn respectively... January 27th, when he answered... said that one of the freedoms that is protected and respected in a democratic state is personal freedom in decision-making regarding themselves and his or her health, and the right of a person to decide on the method of medical treatment and treatment. The Law on Patients’ Rights provides that treatment is permitted only in cases where the patient has given informed consent to it. Thus, in Latvia, while respecting fundamental human rights and fundamental freedoms, vaccination is based on the principle of informed consent. In the meantime, since 27 January, human fundamental rights and fundamental freedoms have disappeared somewhere. Perhaps it will be necessary to look for them, because, like my colleague, Mr Dombrovskis, he referred to this information report, which was looked at by the government in April, when assessing the possibilities of compulsory vaccination for the professions concerned... even then, in fact, there was a slightly different view of the situation. And I'm also on the commission today... decided to find out to Mr Citskovsky, who is different from the current situation in April; why in the April information report we read quite reasonable and meaningful things that have been written by the same ministries who, today as in the Korean Commission, said that everything is fine: we have taken care of everything, this law is good. We see that the Ministry of Justice, when preparing this assessment, has highlighted both the human right to life... The first article, which was evaluated in relation to vaccination, was Article 93 of the Satversme, which emphasizes the right to life to the rest of the society, which the unvaccinated person, in particular a professional, is facing in the course of carrying out his duties. Another aspect that must be assessed is the right to life for a particular person to be vaccinated, taking into account the potential risk of vaccine adverse reactions. This means that the risk of adverse reactions was very well understood by the Ministry of Justice when this information report was drawn up. It is within the framework of the same information report that this vaccine is still being studied. And it is also being studied now, there is no big difference between April, just a little more time has passed, and maybe there are some more side effects that have been discovered. But what we read... The sixth page states: ‘The use of forced medical procedures is very strict, especially in the light of the medical aspects associated with Covid-19 infection and the vaccine, i.e. the new one, and some individuals may have objective reservations about its short study period; the person (at least for the time being) has no right to choose the type of vaccine; there is insufficient clarity about the transmission of the virus after vaccination; in rare cases, serious adverse reactions, including serious reactions, occur after vaccination. thrombosis; medical contraindications for vaccination (pregnancy, etc.)In the public domain, information is available on national decisions to suspend the use of a specific vaccine in general or to stop the use of a specific vaccine in certain population groups, as is the case with mutations in the virus, in which existing vaccines may not be able to produce immunity.’ I think that there are absolutely clear arguments here, which we can also mention now. But the only argument we have heard from Mr Citskovska today is that all this study is no longer valid, all this information report is no longer valid, because it was drawn up at a time when vaccines were not available to all groups. He very well ignored all these arguments, which are still valid and very topical, because Article 93 of the Satversme, I hope, has not disappeared anywhere. But we see current lies, and then we see manipulation. We know that Kalvans, the president of the Latvian Association of Education Managers, said some time ago, I think all of this... he explained your plan, I think, that he discovered, perhaps not being particularly wise, everything that will happen further with this draft law. He said this: it may be that we do not need to adopt this bill at all; it may be that we simply need to threaten those teachers; that this bill exists a bit in the Saeima, and that all will then be vaccinated. We are seeing very well those colleagues who are trying to balance on the border for or against. They will be against the forced vaccination of teachers, they will sacrifice all other professions, all recipients of services, teachers will try to pull out because they really hope that the teachers will be the ones who will go away with the mobbing and do whatever they require. I really see teachers trying to keep common sense right now, waiting for the new school year, which will be in less than a month's time, they absolutely are not clear... And at present these uncertainties are not only related to non-formal or informal learning, but also to the teacher’s ability to continue to teach children everything that the teacher has prepared. This is, of course, the most cynicism. And then. If we are talking about all the other manipulations that we have to face... Of course, we can say both that all this... Also a court order... guessing this court's decision... that we have already touched today several times... and today's commission... This decision of the European Court of Human Rights, which is marked as such an old coat all the time... In the same information report that we are talking about, there is, of course, a reference to this decision, reminding us that this decision is only about investigated vaccines that have already been included in the vaccination calendar. And in this case, it is precisely from the point of view of the community that this decision cannot be seen. I am surprised by the unprofessionality with which the annotation of this draft law was drawn up. As if a professional has drawn up it, as if Mrs. Medina, who probably is not working for the first year at the Ministry of Justice... But why should I lie so openly, why should I rely so unprofessionally on facts that cannot be used in reasoning? It's really hard for me to figure out. What the government, the shrinking coalition is trying to do right now – of course, to force people to vaccinate, to figure out a way to blame those people who choose not to vaccinate. In the same case, if we're talking about a type of virus delta with which we're all scared... But if you have noticed – no one at any time has tried to figure out how to limit this type of delta that is imported from other countries. It offers a wide range of opportunities for circulation in all its forms. Go on. If we are talking about the possibility of considering other scenarios of the situation, other ways to fight this virus – this much mentioned information report also makes reference to the need to explore other ways, including treatment options. If we are talking about the situation in the Czech Republic, which shows very good results with the use of treatments... But this really is where the government behaves. — Sound Break. ... ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U62	Dear Members, Honourable Members! Thank you for your patience. All technical problems have been solved, we can continue to work on the agenda. Before the technical break, Member Jūlija Stepanenko took part in the debate, and she had less than three minutes left. So, Mrs Stepanenko, if you want to use these three minutes, please apply now for the debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. So another three minutes' debate time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U63	Yeah, it's not the second time, it's the first time. I would like to add to my speech what is known to everyone and which is also indicated on the website of the National Medicines Agency that this vaccine is currently in the clinical trial phase. And we understand that when we are told that everyone should take part in this event on the basis of compulsory vaccination, this means that people are actually forced to participate in clinical trials. What is most shocking in this situation is, of course, a dire saying that one person's life, health, is the small risk that, of course, outweighs this great benefit for society as a whole. If we allow the heads of state, the heads of government and the other people who make decisions in such categories to speak, this means that we allow ourselves to come from a democratic system to some authoritarian regime, to totalitarianism; this means that you will not differ from the regimes that result in us currently having sulphur days, several sulphur days per year. Likewise, if we talk about these studies, about experiments, then you will not be far away from the sad and painful history, because what we have to meet (and we have to meet!) Kaspars Girgen, of course, has also shown that people have suffered as a result of this vaccine. And the most sad thing is that we still do not have a procedure in Latvia to investigate correlation between the vaccine and the side effects. Finally, I would like to say that more than 22 000 have now signed a Memorandum of Human Rights and Freedom... a large platform with very many people... 47 thousand have signed the MyaBalss.lv initiative on voluntary vaccination, and for the third time (for the first time in the history of Latvia!) this collective submission... comes back to the Saeima. Colleagues from the coalition, if you think that we will not be able to collect 155 thousand in 30 days, you are very, very mistaken. We will be able to do this together with 34 members of the opposition, honest members of the opposition, who do not go down, who really know clearly what they want, and who stand on their feet, their two legs, and who no one can buy or scare. Therefore, dear colleagues, vote! Of course, vote in the way your conscience compels you, not in the way that your masters tell you. I call for this draft law to be rejected in a imperative way. Otherwise, this draft law will be withdrawn by the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U64	The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U65	Can I hear you?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U66	You see and hear. Please debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U67	Yes, dear people! I believe that this day will remain in Latvia's history. This day is the culmination of what this government is capable of, and we have already noticed what it is capable of. Empathy is the greatest sign that distinguishes people from animals. Where is it? Souls and minds are poisoned with both power and money. I would like to remind you of the conditions for which we are where we are. Everyone remembers that in February 2020 the Iranian citizen, who came from Riga to Estonia, was found to have a new corona virus, and this was announced by the Minister of Social Affairs, Tanel Kiek. What did the government do? No way! Full airport, names of praise to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. After arrival, full buses with people to Riga, later – to the regions and to Estonia. Well, we're smart! This Decision shall enter into force on the day following What did we see and hear in the Latvian media? We did not have influenza vaccines because of the historically low demand, it was said to us by Jan Feldmane, Head of the Environment Department of the Ministry of Health. She commented and comforted that the vaccines reserved for groups at risk, for persons at risk, for clients and employees of social care centres would be available. In turn, all seniors who want to be vaccinated against influenza this year will obviously not be able to receive the vaccine. What does that mean? In February, the first case with the deadly virus, as all the media frighten us, but we don't even have vaccines against influenza... In particular, it infects people with chronic diseases. Go on. Is there a pandemic? It's such a rhetorical question that you keep me, my speech on a continuous basis. The World Health Organization declared a pandemic of 118,000 people infected. There are seven billion people in the world 763 million. This is about 0.001 per cent of the population. In medical opinion, the pandemic starts at five percent. The mortality from the community is 0.02 percent. On the other hand, those who have recovered are 32 times more. Is it really a very dangerous disease? Pneumonia affects 450 million people worldwide. Seven million of them die. By the end of 2020, the number of infections was 85 million and the number of deaths was close to 7 million. Is that super mortality? Let's talk about tuberculosis. Some 9,10 million people get sick every year, 1.5 million die. That's 15 percent. 15! In March 2009 (I now tell you my experience) I sent two applications to the Minister for the Interior with a request to help. My request was that a woman who had no document, identity documents, came to the same family doctor. And she had... I think many doctors understand the first signs... What's wrong with man. And the doctor tells me that she is exposed to tuberculosis: “Karina, please help, no hospital, no medical institution accepts her. Please help me! We were already in the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs, we wrote an application. Everything that was possible from my side... I have already declared my place of residence." All he could, man did... the doctor did, but it wasn't his duty, and turned to me as a Member. Indifference and bureaucracy! No one is interested in having tuberculosis detected. The person was given an identity document only when this doctor simply had his body... and with threats, with threats to legal proceedings for the admission and hospitalisation of their people. It was, of course, an open tuberculosis and, thanks to the social workers, this problem has been resolved. It is simply an example of how we fight, how we help people, and how we care for their health. This is an example that can be proved by two submissions to the Minister of the Interior. We can see from the SPCC data that out of the 8 billion 900 million... 89 million 540 are infected worldwide, of which one million 916,000 are dead. This is 2.2 percent (these data have been taken back one hour) – 2.2 percent! The recovery is 49 million 522 thousand 958. That's 55,6 percent. But where did 42.2 percent of them go? Are they still sick? That's funny. Since I started my speech and shared my experience, I would like to pay attention to other illnesses. For example, tanks with between 40 percent and 95 percent mortality. A measure with an stickiness of between 90 and 100 and a mortality of between 90 and 100 percent. Cholera’s stickiness is 80 percent, mortality is 57 percent. Every year we have around 10 million cancers in the world and 60 percent die. For example, in 2012 more than 14 million new cancers were detected worldwide, and 8.2 million died, representing 14.6 percent of all deaths. In Latvia, malignant tumors are the second most common cause of death after cardiovascular disease. The mortality of cancerous tumors in Latvia is 996.1 per 100 thousand inhabitants. Every month, we die from tumors twice as many people as from the community. What is the government's action? None. A person with a coronavirus infects two or three people, with a rhinotracheitis such as six or eight people, and a measles virus from 12 to 18 people. The rate of coronavirus infection is lower than that of the diseases I have just mentioned. Does the government really care for people, or does it really care for the health of mothers or their children? We only recently had an initiative in the Saeima on the right of pregnant women to free epidural anaesthesia. Where did this initiative go? Even during a pandemic, the Ministry of Health and the Cabinet of Ministers have not taken care to make it easier for women to give birth in some way, despite the fact that epidural anaesthesia is free in Estonia and Lithuania. Our government also deprived a woman of psychological support during the pandemic by prohibiting the birth of a family member from living with her. We take care of people, their health, safety. You also have every opportunity to support it, because this initiative is on the table or somewhere in the drawer, I don't know. Mr Skrides, all our initiatives, good initiatives, which are really aimed at the care of people, are kept in his office for years in entos. Mandatory vaccination. Well, I think that is a total fascism. Once again, the government has a completely indifferent Latvian nation and children. We have free medicine for children, but every mother and dad knows they're a lie. Where is the paid ankle against encephalitis? Yes, we receive 100 percent refund in some regions, somewhere 30, 50, and where and when... I asked the government: when will there be a free pot against encephalitis? When? I would like to talk a little about the restrictions that allegedly wanted to save us. The first thing that the Ministry of Health has done is to reprofil and replan all operations, and very many people received a refusal for all operations and treatments planned. Okay. Can – can! – do so, but talking to people who have a medical education and who work in the medical sector... they said at the beginning they didn't even have gloves, let alone masks, masks that don't save them from the community... I need to wear medical masks. They didn't have an ordinary thing to have. For self-insulation. Four walls, lack of fresh air, lack of vitamin D. Of course, it reduces the immunity of people. We're all sitting down. You can't walk. One idea was to introduce a fee in nature trails. Genital government! For physical movements, for physical activity reduction. Of course, no one says that it causes thrombosis, but 50 percent of the deaths in the community were due to thrombosis. And for the fuck. It was a huge blow in people's wallets. I don't know, maybe someone's lack of money improves health, but I think it doesn't improve ever – never! On remote training. Now everyone knows that almost 80-90 percent of those learning developed disorders, both mental, physical and depressive. I was ashamed, I was ashamed when people asked me: “Karina, please, publicly tell this story about our mother, about our family member who committed suicide because she did not want to interfere with people, she could not help with either money or physical, could not take care of her family members.” It's shame. I have never seen anyone write about suicides and their causes, following all political events. We got medical staff jumping through the windows outside, and everything else... Everyone stay quiet. We take care of people. For carrying masks. The World Health Organization officially recommends wearing masks only for people with respiratory symptoms. There is no need for medical masks for healthy people. What are we doing? Still... The heat of 32 degrees, we make a report about tropical heats, but we still torture people and force them to wear masks, and we punish them if they don't. In Estonia, Mr. Rancan – do not give God... look at what has led to restrictions and permits for people to move easily in Estonia! Well, it lived for a month, and it's okay. We still wear masks. Still! And punishments. Twenty-four thousand were punished, Re:Baltica made a report. The CDC study on the carrying of masks. 85 percent of the patients in the community carried a mask. They carried a mask and still got sick. And only 15 percent didn't carry it. Now don't save that mask from the viruses, and those doctors who speak to the public... It's a shame! The mask saved us from influenza, so we did not have influenza this year. No, just everything was only focused on the community, everyone was looking just for the community. You come with a broken finger, but you're being tested in the community. You come in with headaches, you're looking for a community, you come in with a tumor, you're looking for a community. Of course, we do not have influenza, we do not have influenza, and we do not get sick. That's right. I would like to ask for a combination of speaking time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U68	Time merged.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U69	Thank you. That's the research... and, on the contrary, after more stringent rules and mandatory carrying of masks, there was only an increase in infection. Now I'm not telling my thoughts, I'm talking about CDC research. Mask holes are 200 times larger than the virus itself. Well, of course, we all earned, we had good purchases. Everyone's quiet now. From China... King Kong, it's... Management Board, signed consignment note... We made all those millions. Of course, everyone needs to wear those masks. Keep going. Many scientists conclude that carrying masks is more harmful to a healthy person. Mask is a wonderful place for other bacteria, viral replication, CO2... oxygen deficiency... Now everyone knows that lack of oxygen in the brain causes headache, sleep disorders, nausea, challenge chronic diseases, psychotic depression, and depressed state. Everyone stay quiet, everyone stay quiet. We don't have doctors, everybody is quiet. Have Latvian dermatologists seen facial lesions, pustular infections, streptococci, staphylococci during this year? But in the years before, there were such events? But five years ago? What's the reason? Everyone stay quiet. Only threats and scare people. I just looked at it, Jaunup spoke. Fearing is also a method. If an important decision is made, why shouldn't we scare people? We're... The government seems to believe that humans are a mere flock of sheep and can frighten them. With a tree and without carrot. No, the carrot we have a lottery that it quietly took off the agenda. That's wonderful. Smart. Throughout the day, something was changed to the quiet culuars. Makes chaos and panic. All those who express themselves against Dumpy, Perevoschikov, Pavilut, Juhvevič, are simply adherents of conspiracy theories, fools, irrational people, stupids who have to take away human rights. Human rights end – said the President of Latvia. Media for us every day, every week the head of the fluffy head. From the beginning of the pandemic, we are watching the propaganda machine set in motion. I call on you to wake up and prevent medical manipulation of your children, your parents, your grandparents. I call for this to be avoided, because this vaccine is experimental. If half... We were all blocked in Facebook all year round, and we couldn't write either one or two words. Artificially produced virus! We were all blocked. We're idiots. How can we imagine that this is an artificial virus? Oh, the ice's got a little squeezing! But I think we need to move a little more than... because we see that this government is un principled, it does not receive or respect its people. All public statements are provocative. Each statement contradicts the previous one. When its Cabinet meetings were published, it was ashamed to read those dialogues as they perceived people as if we were animals. I therefore call for this draft law not to be supported and for it to be voted against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U70	Name Member... I closed the debate. The debate has already been closed. I invite you to apply... So we have been debating for several hours now. The debate was closed. For the Commission, Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U71	On behalf of the Commission, I would just like to thank everyone for this debate. I call for support to be given to this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U72	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on communicable Management”! Please vote mode! It's not about - 45, it's against - 20, it's abstaining - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals and a time limit for the examination of the draft law at the second, final and final sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U73	In the Commission, after hearing all parties, the deadline for the submission of proposals was set at 18 August this year and the second reading at the next parliamentary meeting of 18 August.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2288-U74	Thank you. At present, no other proposals have been received at the Saeima Bureau. Please enable a section on the procedure. Does any Member wish to make another proposal? So no one has made a different proposal. The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading of this draft law is 18 August this year, and consideration – at the next sitting of the Saeima after the commission meeting at which these proposals will be discussed. As a result, we have today examined the entire agenda of the second extraordinary session of the Saeima on 4 August 2021. I'm closing the sitting. Only registration of participants. It has been a success. I'm closing the sitting. Nice evening!
