ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! We will continue to examine the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2022, 2023 and 2024. Member Mārtiņš Bondars on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U2	Good morning, Madam President of the Saeima. Good morning, colleagues! Dear colleagues, 17. - Member Gobzem's proposal, in which he... Yeah, she said about it... compared the Latvian state with Estonia, speaking about... those in power. And I must say that this proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U3	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U4	Good morning, dear people! Good morning, Members of the Saeima! Good morning, a coalition that will vote against all my proposals and against all opposition proposals and will increase the Cabinet of Ministers, the poor Cabinet of Ministers, its budget by 1.4 million, if exactly then by one million 429 thousand. I am now reading the reasons why the Cabinet of Ministers should increase. Thus, the Cabinet of Ministers - strengthening of the efficiency and capacity of the public administration, strengthening of the capacity of the material technical base. What does this involve? So Karin has made it quite clear that he is now inefficient and does not have the appropriate capacity. What does that mean? This means that he makes it clear that his ministers in his government are ineffective and inadequate, so he needs an additional 1.4 million. Material base capacity building means wages - increase yourself salaries on your expense, dear people, while you stay... is unemployment 20 or 30 per cent. As long as you cry that everything is bad, then Karin is fine. That's what happens. Where does it take? This leads to a very simple detail... What is the difference between a rich country and a poor country? Balance of income in society is very important in a rich country, because it is essential that it is very large... relatively high percentage of so-called middle layer - people with (not hearable.) ... high incomes account for most of the society. What about us? We have a very large layer of poor people and a very small layer of very wealthy people. And, as I read in the press, at this time of crisis, we have increased by... I'm not in any new scale, too... raised car (not clearly heard.) trade. So, given that our Heads of State are already driving the most proud cars in this way, I allow them simply lack the material to strengthen the technical base capacity, a more powerful car or some more powerful bonus. Yesterday, by the way, while listening to the debate, I realized that even such bonuses were approved in the budget that, if the prosecutor-general goes to work, he is paid for it, simply because it is normal - if a person comes to work, he is paid for it. Or the Head of the State Chancellery - has a salary and then some five thousand more (the percentage of all bonuses comes together) because it is already difficult to spend with the salary in the public administration. Everyone is heading for the private sector, where they do not pay benefits, where there are excessively high taxes... and in that spirit. Why am I talking so optimistic about this issue? I am optimistic about this for that reason... how we saw yesterday, when we examined the last proposal, the dear people, the Cabinet of Ministers and this coalition consider you to be such an uneducated mass. Yesterday, the Saeima voted for the purchase of a concert grande for the purpose of the Riga Castle Holiday Hall. They said that it was not that it was taken out, but in reality, the coalition voted 'for', just as I voted today. They'll say, no, they're so hard, I don't know, an old computer or something, but it's actually just for themselves to raise the salary. There you go. My proposal is not to borrow this money, but simply not to take on this money, to cut public expenditure so that our children and grandchildren do not have to pay for Karina's good life. We're not spending 1.4 million on Karin and we're not taking this money! I ask you not to take over 300 million for all the proposals in general, 300 million simply presented for your pleasure, for your well-being. That is what this proposal is about. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U5	The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U6	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, The priorities of this government have always been... There has been a fight against poverty and solidarity. In this budget, we do not see anything like that. There cannot be any question of solidarity here at a time when the minimum pension is less than EUR 150, but the remuneration of the senior officials increases by as much as 40 per cent. Nothing is done to reduce poverty. Around 400 000 people live on or below the poverty line. The President of Latvia announced the need to increase the number of ministers. So... It is understandable that the existing ministers will be reduced in terms of their work, as they will be subject to further ministers. So if one minister fails to deal with his work, another minister will be attached to him. And at this point there is talk about raising wages! How these things can be put together! It is very bad - at a time when people live in poverty, when people do not know how they will pay the new public utility bills, how they will pay for electricity. People are already writing letters today to help them pay electricity bills. We are talking about raising wages for ministers at this point. Please support Mr Gobzem's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U7	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U8	On behalf of the Commission, I would just like to remind you that the 17th proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U9	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - Member Gobzem's proposal. Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 23, against - 52, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U10	18. - also the proposal from Member Alda Gobzem. During the debate, he talked about the fact that power is buying additional public relations, and compared the media of the Republic of Latvia with the Russian media. I would like to say that this proposal was not supported by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U11	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U12	I must say that Mr Bondara gave a surprisingly precise explanation of this proposal... how it happened to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. And that's true. This proposal means reducing the expenditure chapter of the Society Integration Fund by EUR 1 million 84 000 315. What is the Society Integration Fund? To understand, dear people, the Society Integration Foundation is a formation led by Mrs. Puce, the famous spouse of Juris Puce. Actually... In essence, in my view, it is designed to have a Puce’s wife where to work, because the family is hard, they need permissions to park, so, as you say, the appetite comes from eating. Now we need an extra million, car parking is not enough, a million extra. Of course, it is beautifully designed, for example, "development of a national cohesive and civicly active society". What does that mean? That means... We know very well that we do not have a cohesive society, that for 30 years there has not been and will not be after Puce's wife has led the relevant Society Integration Fund. Where, then, will they spend? They will spend on creating a modern digital platform as an example. Once again, there will be a website that will not make any sense, and in the end, it will be found that no united society has developed, and will continue to speak, given that the Puce family represents values that are ultra-liberal - only in the interests of its party. These extra funds are used to actually buy power to buy power through the media to buy power through the... feed the necessary people who will give them a good story: how good it is, how good Puce is, how good Mr. Young man is, how good the government is and how good it is. But it will have little to do with the integration of society. What evidence of this? This is illustrated by the following: Thus, this section also contains the following point: ‘Providing social grants for students from large families’. Hence, from this million, which they require in addition, they have found 24,000 families. There's websites there, there's anything else that can't be understood... parking... I guess I'm going through it or something else, but many children's families have the smallest amount of money. So to make strong families... in order to build a united, strong family, the Society Integration Fund will not, in fact, consume anything at all. Therefore, my proposal is to reduce this expenditure in the public budget and not to take up seven billion. Take a lot less. The woman doesn't need this money. They can enjoy what they have completely calmly. There is no poorest organisation in the country. The only purpose of this organization, as I said, is to bribe loyal people with power, so it is given the funds, it is being carried out this function and nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U13	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U14	Thank you. Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues and colleagues! When it comes to the Society Integration Fund, to a certain extent... Those who remember history understand that it is really created at the same time as Latvia regains its independence and that its tasks have been quite different from what they now look like... by 30 years. Integration and integration of society seem not to be the main point anymore... what should be done, especially if we are talking about the functions that are currently highlighted in the Appendix to this budget. Will the Society Integration Foundation really integrate large-scale families by issuing certificates? Is it a Society Integration Fund? Is this a challenge for integration of society? Is it really what the Society Integration Fund is maintaining cooperation with non-governmental organisations by essentially allocating funding? Is this the task of social integration? It seems that after almost 30 years of existence, the Society Integration Fund should be seen as an avalanche and, to some extent, eliminated as an institution. Yes, it is possible that under the auspices of the Ministry of Culture there should be an institution, a division or another body cooperating with the non-governmental sector. This is very important and supporting non-governmental organisations is important, but not already for the integration of society. So what are we integrating? Society? Thus, when it comes to this proposal at the moment, in the sense of this amount, it would not be in favour, but EUR 264 944 would not be in favour, because they have been evaluated or directed towards developing the capacity of the Society Integration Fund. Why? I'm asking you again. Is it necessary to issue certificates to large families? Is it therefore necessary to successfully share funding between non-governmental organisations? Perhaps the Ministry of Culture should review the existence, functions and possibly also the name of this fund. I have spoken about this not only in the context of the budget in this term, but also in it... by function. Once again, yes, there must be a body that promotes cooperation with non-governmental organisations that support, among other things, non-governmental organisations of minorities in the field of culture and the maintenance of ethnic culture, but this should certainly no longer be called "Societal Integration", even more so if this function is not actually carried out. Have we heard - I repeat! - that the Society Integration Fund would, by its name and foundation, have addressed minority seniors? But no! We have not heard that the Society Integration Fund has addressed seniors, including seniors of minorities, in the context of vaccination. It would, to a certain extent, be a function of the Fund and would probably require additional funding but could be redeployed from the vaccination office. Perhaps... I would call on the Ministry of Culture, however, to review at least the name of the Society Integration Fund, if not its existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U15	Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U16	Good afternoon, honourable colleagues, honourable colleagues! As much was said by the Ministry of Culture... I would remind both Members and the public that the Foundation for the Integration of Society is not a department of the Ministry of Culture and is not subordinate to the Ministry of Culture. There is a special Law on the Society Integration Fund adopted by the Saeima and it performs the functions specified by the law, therefore the task of the Saeima is also to provide funding to the Society Integration Fund. Of course, the Ministry of Culture, Members, can bring about changes in the name of the Foundation for the Integration of Society. This is a completely democratic process, but I just want to say why the Ministry of Culture believes that the fund should be. For example, many people have now seen the new multi-series series Emily about Emily Benjamin - there was very good evidence that authoritarian power... from the Ministry regulated the freedom of the press. In the Covide, support for both public and commercial media is especially needed and there are special state aid programmes for the media, in particular for commercial media. Without the Society Integration Foundation, which administers, makes competitions for media support and directs money to specific media, the opposition would be the first to climb the Saeima's troupe and say that officials of the Ministry of Culture themselves have distributed the funding to the media according to unknown principles, want to buy them up and so on. At the moment when this money is administered, the competition is carried out by the Society Integration Fund, which is supervised by the Board of the Society Integration Fund, which consists of representatives of non-governmental organisations consisting of representatives of several ministries, this competition, this sharing of money, this support is much more transparent, more visible. Logically, there's just some kind of discussion or problem, they're getting into the circle of society. If it were to be divided narrowly, civilly, in a single ministry, there would be a completely different situation, conflicts of interest would always be condemned, and so on. The same applies to the organisation of competitions, the administration of money to non-governmental organisations, as the Society Integration Fund also provides support to these non-governmental organisations in the form of competitions. It has to be said that the Society Integration Fund also performs the functions that the state - in the eyes of the ministries - did not want to do, for example, in the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Public Solidarity, for years now, we have had a long discussion that will coordinate the policies of refugees, asylum seekers and alternative status seekers. The only one who really wanted to do so was the Society Integration Fund. The same applies to voluntary work, which is not something that is part of one ministry's restaurant, because voluntary work is, well, a work of resellers that should be promoted in such a round - involving non-governmental organizations... and, in administering this work to the Society Integration Fund, there is a much better solution than doing it narrowly, in terms of fat. So that the Society Integration Fund is to be supported, for its future - that is...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U17	Thank you. Thank you. Your speaking time is over. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U18	Good morning! Thank you. Reflecting on what Mr Janson has just said, it is obvious that none of the positions he called and played are in line with the name and nature of the Society Integration Fund... by its meaning. So it's... Indeed, Mrs Papules was one hundred percent right, because the name 'the Foundation for the Integration of Society' does not correspond to the activities actually carried out by this foundation. As we see and as the Ministry of Culture explained to us, it's like... a built, built-up specific organisation that currently deals with administration and financial support to non-governmental organisations, distributes funding to commercial and public media and so (in brackets... (in feet) ‘as if’ ensures the independence of the media. In addition, we all know perfectly that this fund is run by political power for Development/About! the wife of Jura Pūce, Member of the Parliament associated. What impartiality we can speak of to public and independent media! They all depend on whether they will receive or will not receive funding in the current economic situation and whether they will receive the necessary amount of funding. In this case, it seems that the Society Integration Fund has completely changed and has become yet another feed for politicians closer to their personality. In this case, I ask my fellow Members to support the proposal put forward by Member Gobzem because, if basic functions are not met in substance, funding can accordingly be shifted to other, more acute and more serious, problems, meeting the needs of society. Another very important accent in this context... the whole thing. If we see that even non-governmental organisations representing, for example, Mrs Kažoka say that the Russian-speaking audience should be spoken in Russian and that it has been lost, and that the vaccination coverage of Russian-speaking audience is smaller than that of the Latvian-speaking population, perhaps it is a signal - and a very important signal - that the Society Integration Fund is degraded that it does not fulfil its basic task and does not ensure any integration of society. So what are we talking about here? We are still continuing to allocate huge amounts of funding, millions, when people are actually only dealing with the reallocation of financial resources, to name it in beautiful words. And it also ensures that media space (including media space) in this way is affected and... manipulated. I believe that this is not acceptable and really must be thought... and society needs to know that this fund is not working out with the problem of integration. This is demonstrated by the Covid-19 crisis - with a vaccination process, with a coverage precisely in the context of minorities. This built, artificially maintained... Another civil servant's feeding room just... is by nature likely to be eliminated. I ask my colleagues to support the 18th proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U19	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U20	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry... Of course, the very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! First of all, I would like to express my appreciation - a high evaluation - to Mr Janson, who is the only parliamentary secretary in this government to do his job fully and to speak consistently about each Ministry of Culture... on any question relating to the Ministry of Culture. Mr Janson, I can disagree with you on some (not many) issues, but in any case all the respect you have for the fact that you, as you say, selflessly do your job while the parliamentary secretaries of almost all other ministries (with few exceptions - also the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare once spoke) remain silent on the priorities of their ministers. But now it's salty... on the file. Colleagues, I hope that everyone has noticed that the Ministry of Culture has actually separated itself from the Society Integration Fund. And here I have to agree with many of the previous speakers - we are not seeing more and more in a divided society; we are not hearing that the Society Integration Fund would do the work that would fit the name of this fund. We do not see any progress made by the Society Integration Fund in its integration. It seems that the Society Integration Fund is doing everything but not integrating society - whether it is overcoming the ethnic divide, or some other aspect of society's division. We see that Latvian society is becoming increasingly fragmented, but the budget of the Society Integration Fund is continuing to grow. Perhaps this problem, colleagues, has to be solved in such a way that the Society Integration Fund should simply change its name to the Fund for All Projects, or simply the Media Support Fund, or in some other way, because it is quite clear that the integration of the public with these words in the right sense is definitely not in the first tenth of this Fund - in the matters it deals with. As far as the financing of the media is concerned, of course, on the one hand, with the understanding that in recent years our mass media are experiencing very difficult and difficult times due to technological progress - especially because of digital progress - and that some support from the state is needed, at the same time the question must be asked whether the fact that the government, or the government's specific institutions, in this particular case, the Society Integration Fund, distributes this funding to the media... whether it brings anything, so to say, quid pro quo from the media side. Does the fact that some media receive and some do not receive funding include some kind of benefits from these media? Such questions, colleagues, must be asked. But otherwise - is there a time to allocate funding to the Society Integration Fund? I would say that it is better to give it to recruit new nurses and new doctors. That, colleagues, would be more in line with the priorities of our country today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U21	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U22	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues and colleagues! Well, Mr Janson, you are right - the Society Integration Fund works under a separate law, because it was created during the restoration of Latvia's independence, indeed as an independent institution that received large amounts of foreign funds and, of course, it should have been independent. Yes, of course, the Society Integration Fund is under the direct responsibility of the Prime Minister and is to a certain extent in the activities of the Prime Minister... under the authority of: I agree, but at the same time, what you have said about the functions - about the media, about the implementation of public integration policy - is the statute of the Ministry of Culture... at least a written function. It is therefore understandable that these functions could be performed by any of the funds or by any structural structure. As you said, Mr Janson, it is right, in my opinion, to say that the allocation of funding to non-governmental organisations could not be a ministerial competence or a ministerial direct (Create). ... I'm sorry... task, but it's clear that... in your speech, you have also certainly shown that the Foundation for the Integration of Society is practically no longer working on the integration of society, and it seems that, after its work, it can now be called avalancism - not because society has become more united, but on the contrary - for reasons other than that at the time of the foundation, but the fund's operation is not, at present, to be regarded as such. And I must agree, Mr Janson, that it is not your responsibility, the Ministry of Culture, to change the name of the fund, but you are in a coalition, and the existence of the Society Integration Fund should be put to an end by the name, and it should be described as a meaningful and functional name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U23	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U24	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, For my part, I am also very grateful to Parliamentary Secretary, Mr Janson, because indeed he is one of the few Members of the coalition who participate in the debate and, in my opinion, participates very meaningfully in the debate, which is indeed a positive feature. Hopefully there will also be some other example today, and I am committed to thank you to every coalition Member who will climb this troupe, no matter what party he would be trying to defend his proposals. Thank you very much if you defend your proposals... which will also be in the near future. But in this case, I would like to reflect exactly what Mr Janson said. In a sense, Mr Janson, no one has asked you to defend yourself for these media expenditures and for these media money - how these media money are shared. You started it yourself, and that in a way indicates that something is not completely clean. If we look at this SIF, what you, as you said... You pointed out that it is the independent body in which the tenders and so on are divided independently, and I would like to remind everyone, colleagues - not only Mr Janson, but also all other colleagues - that is true (not to speak of the SIF manager, it has already been applied for by many colleagues), the main issue, irrespective of who runs the SIF, is who controls the SIF in substance. And it's the SIF Council. If we look at what the SIF Council is, the SIF Board consists of 10 members. And who's the majority here? Six government representatives, six! - and four representatives of non-governmental organisations. So the absolute majority is government representatives and there is in principle no difference in what divides this money - either government... the same government divides it by simply calling it SIF, it takes place through SIF. I have taken part in a number of debates on why SIFs in general are needed what their meaning is. And really, wouldn't all these functions be smarter... to do to the Ministry of Culture? In fact, if we do so fairly, especially at this time, it is the extended arm of power to allocate some kind of resources, and in this case any democratic principles are excluded. The government has, in principle, independently maintained full control over this structure. In the past, there were features of democracy when there were representatives of planning regions, representatives of municipalities, directly involved, they were different political parties. There is now only a coalition. Formation of coalition than otherwise can not be named. I doubt anyone in any competition that is currently being driven through this structure. There is therefore room for discussion on what needs to be done at all. If there were at least a balance in the governance structure, but there is not even a balance with non-governmental organisations, there is a stable majority here, and in essence, either the coalition council will decide, it will work, as the coalition council will decide on the distribution of money, it will do so. You can already tell us about some competitions and get in touch with other things. Colleagues, there is absolute coalition dominance in this organisation. In my view, the negotiations on what Mr Gobzem has now raised are in place. Here, we should consider what this body is dealing with at all. The coalition gives some money, and it shares the principles of communication. If it were the Ministry of Culture, it would be at least clear from whom to claim responsibility. At the moment, it is another irresponsible organisation - they see, they do, we do nothing, we are just standing on the edge. Therefore, colleagues, I also call on everyone to listen to what Mr Gobzem says. This change in the governance structure by the same Saeima - this Saeima, not anyone else - was the one that voted for it, made this super-organizational change - I believe that this change has not led to good results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U25	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U26	Good morning, honourable colleagues! It must be said that this debate is extremely interesting, because as a result, we can once again make sure that the budget debate is important. This is perhaps not so much about money, but about how the money that has been allocated from the budget, that is, from tax payments, is effectively used to fulfil certain functions, how effective the functions themselves are. And there is also, in principle, an analysis of the activities to decide whether sufficient or insufficient funding is in the exercise of a particular function. In particular, for SIFs. You see, I was lucky - I used to be a member of the SIF Council, representing the municipality, the municipality of Riga, so I know in the library what I was doing then and what this fund was doing today. At that time (I remember very well) it was through SIF funding that we (and it was my initiative) supported the financing of cultural events in the Latvian Diaspora. And that was a very important moment. It was for the first time in Latvia's history after the restoration of independence that such funding appeared at all, which was something subordinate - not from the state budget, but from the SIF budget - but nevertheless it was. But with time, naturally, everything changes. The SIF has been very bureaucratic and, to be honest, has become a separate programme administrator. That is why this conversation is really on the ground, because if we are talking about the meaning of its allocation, it is not about achieving results (regardless of what the results we are talking about), it is about ensuring the process. Let's say, digitalisation. As SIF is under the auspices of the Cabinet of Ministers, naturally, the funding just granted to the Cabinet of Ministers for capacity building directly relates also to SIF operating security. That part is therefore redundant. That is why Mr Gobzem's proposal is interesting, meaningful and important. As regards the development and future of SIF activities, I am convinced that it is time to open the SIF law and review its functions, i necessity, i name change. Undoubtedly, this is a very correct proposal, but it is not a matter of budget. I think that Mr Gobzem's proposal is welcome, because there are also other ways of supporting and reorganising the operation of the SIF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U27	The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U28	Colleagues! The functions of the SIF should certainly be reviewed as one of the most important and key functions the SIF performs is the distribution of food packages to deprived persons, i.e. distribution of parcels by the European Fund for Aid to the Most Deprived, and the conclusion of contracts with non-governmental organisations organising the distribution of these packages. Poverty, of course, affects not only the homeless, but also the families of many children, single-parent families and pensioners, people with disabilities and, in particular, the Covid-19 pandemic, this social inequality and exclusion are increasing. At this time too, when we have raised the income level of the poor to EUR 272, there are, of course, an increasing number of people who qualify for the status of a poor person and who are therefore entitled to claim food packages. But, you can see, the distribution of food packages cannot in any way be called social integration - it is the maintenance of life functions, because sometimes that food package is the only food that these people can receive. Such a function can certainly be achieved very successfully by the Ministry of Welfare and, in my capacity as Minister, I raised this issue several times, because in reality we are stunting the SIF with the huge funding given to food packages. As a result of the review of the functions, this function should definitely be returned to the Ministry of Welfare, because the social service also provides certificates, assesses people who need these packages, and in this way... The SIF should never provide any further funding for the performance of these functions. Please support Mr Gobzem's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U29	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U30	Good morning, everybody! You know, in fact, with this Society Integration Fund, it's even more ambitious. And that is, I will give you a concrete example. From a completely unexpected point of view, I have been confronted with the operation of this fund. When I looked at the OIC sphere, which I know very much about and think I was perfectly looking at how it was made, suddenly I saw in one famous medium an article in which the whole story of the OIC field was presented in a completely different sauce, trying to no less or praise those who have actually created it and who have been covering it for years. The article was very extensive, and I concluded with amazement that, you know, who has financed it? Society Integration Fund! On the financing of this article... I was, of course, very interested in what is involved in the integration of society: the area of OIC and the integration of society. So I asked the Prime Minister to explain how this fund, which... Taking note of the work of this fund, I concluded that its board consists essentially of members of the coalition board, so the coalition of power actually manages the fund. I don't know, maybe something has changed now, but what Mr. Janson tried to say is that there are representatives of society and so on - yes, they are included there, but they are included in this way (at least for the moment I started to analyse this fund)... included in such a way that they do not have to deal with anything but create a cover for the public that this fund really works in the public interest. In fact, what we actually see with these real facts is that this fund is working as an instrument... how power can manipulate the media and public opinion, i.e. any argument that this fund fulfils an important... a tool to finance the media. But why don't you give those media money in the normal way? Why do we need to make them closer to the power of people who will decide whom media we want to give this money? This leads to these amusing articles, tending articles (even to say misleading and false articles) about acts of power. An example of this is the OIC. That is what I can fully prove. It must therefore be concluded, unfortunately, that we are now facing a situation like that of the eastern neighbours, that the independence of the media is being undermined, especially in a situation where it is impossible for the media to earn the right money... they remain reinforced by their advertising revenue activities, depending on whether they will receive this additional funding. And if this allocation of additional funding is controlled by power, this chain clashes in such a way that these media are simply forced to eat from the hand of the given power and do what is necessary for power. Unfortunately, that is what we are seeing. Even if you look at how objectively this budget debate is being presented, you will see that in some way the opposition's opinion is being presented very formally, but in essence there is no further analysis of those reservations, those concerns that we are raising here in the debate. So that society does not know how irresponsible it is, how incompetent it is. Unfortunately, the concerns expressed in this debate about the Foundation for the Integration of Society and the way in which this power acquires the views it needs with taxpayers' money are justified. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U31	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U32	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Many questions have been raised here about what the real function of the Society Integration Fund is. Well, of course, it is not in this parliamentary debate that we will be able to give an in-depth answer to this question, and the truth is probably somewhere in the middle and is not that simple. But I, my fellow Members, and all those who listen to the Saeima's debate, will point to such two simple facts. The fact is, there's one. If we look at the budget of the Society Integration Fund, then we will see that the absolute maximum of this budget is exactly the next year, 2022. What is so special about this year? Well maybe one particular thing: that's the year that the Saeima elections will take place. Next year, the budget of this fund will reach even more than 18 - 18! - EUR million, including European funds. In comparison, colleagues, in 2024, when the elections are over, the planned budget for the Fund is just under €6 million. The fact is that it is precisely during the election year that the Fund's budget is maximum. And the fact is, two, colleagues, is that, out of the actual funding for next year, almost EUR five million is earmarked specifically for media financing. And this, of course, in itself, as I said, raises the question: is something then received in return for these almost five million euros? For this matter, colleagues... will remain when you're hanging in the air.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U33	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U34	Thank you. Dear colleagues, While still working in a non-governmental organisation, I participated very closely in the discussions and observed the process of establishing the Society Integration Fund. And it is true that in the first years when SIF not only received very generous funding from foreign donors, but these donors also closely followed the projects supported by the Integration Fund, a number of good things were really done, but unfortunately this has long been the case. And I will not repeat what other Members have already said in this debate, but the bitter truth is that the SIF was transformed into an additional government mask. And the money is taken from this mask to use to use it for the purposes deemed necessary by the government. Also for self-glorification and so on, and it has nothing to do with integration. From the outset, SIF’s main task was to promote naturalisation. Do you know what naturalization indicators are now? And can it be seen as a successful work? And are there really many projects aimed at promoting naturalisation? Not at all. With regard to the financing of the media. Indeed, I just want to remind some coalition Members and parties that have paid great attention to fair elections, party financing and so on. Do you think that the way in which money is currently distributed to the media from SIFs meets these high criteria? In fact, these tenders are completely opaque, and no justification... and in fact it was transformed into one way of actually controlling the media, because - good dos, bad dos, wrong dos and the decision itself, what is good and what is not good. And with regard to the media in minority languages: in several competitions nothing is awarded, because simply according to the statute, even if the statute is, which also does not always happen... Media in minority languages simply cannot participate, as it is already foreseen that only media in the state language will be funded. And does it fit in with the integration fund itself as such? Even if some media receive their funding in minority languages, unfortunately, they can very often be very clearly traced back to certain coalition parties or to certain regional politicians who support coalition parties, these media are linked. The evaluation process, how successful and useful this money is, how successful the projects were, remains as vague as it is, and in fact there is no serious evaluation. It is also difficult to assess how well SIF works, not on the basis of the amount of money spent, but on the basis of the results achieved. I believe that really integration is still a very important task and it should be promoted and indeed such an institution is needed in Latvia, and the fund is perhaps a really optimal way, but the question is how it is now that, in fact, the SIF simply serves coalition parties and has become an institution of PR so that coalition parties... Does it perform such functions? That is why I also share the criticism expressed by my colleague. And, colleagues from the coalition, indeed because of your selfish and constitutional interests, you are actually donating very serious national tasks, and that is not right in my view, and it should actually be very serious to think about both SIF tasks, structure and funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U35	The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U36	Good morning, colleagues! I too have many different questions about this Society Integration Fund, namely: does this fund fulfil these objectives, which are written in its statute? And if we remember the recently allocated funding for the information campaign of the society, where the State Audit Office also indicated that this money was shared on the right, left without even assessing these return results. And the assessment of these objectives, which was given, raised many different questions, but I think we should... It is necessary to take a broader look at this issue, even if it is an example of the 2017 State Audit Office report on state institutions and on the need for their reorganisation. In 2017, 18 institutions were taken as an example, even though, for example, the Latvian Institute, the Lottery and Gambling Monitoring Inspectorate, the National Film Centre, the Data State Inspectorate, as well as the Maintenance Guarantee Fund, and many other different state formations or media, which could be named, total 18 institutions, which are managed in total by approximately 700... 107 million. In general, if I am not mistaken, I had already studied this issue a year ago, and I had also informed the Saeima that nothing is changing, even after the State Audit Office report and the proposal to reorganise, eliminate or otherwise evaluate these institutions, nothing has changed, except that the Latvian Institute has been attached to LIAA, but all the same employees have moved to LIAA premises, and the absorption of this budget takes place so far. We can also talk about the Maintenance Guarantee Fund, where recently we got acquainted with these data, how failed I think we are now and are unable to recover these maintenance funds... and it would also be necessary to reorganise here, as well as in all other institutions listed by the State Audit Office. We can conclude from all this that we do not have a manager in a country who is able to show, with a strong hand, the direction in which we should all go together. And especially with these small institutions, which should definitely be reorganised or eliminated, or otherwise be treated more effectively, just as with the Society Integration Fund, which does not currently perform the functions assigned to it. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U37	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U38	After so long and wide-ranging debates, I would like to remind you, colleagues, that on the 18th proposal in the Commission... 18. proposal was not supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U39	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. - Member Gobzem's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U40	Colleagues, 19. - also the proposal from Member Gobzem. This, in turn, calls for the reallocation of money from diplomatic service to debt cancellation. And, according to the applicant, there have been no activities in the foreign sector in the last two years. Moreover, the three-seas initiative summit, which is planned, is unnecessary and unnecessary, in the applicant's view. This money can therefore be redistributed from diplomatic service to debt cancellation. This was roughly the case with the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U41	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U42	Yes, Mr Bondara is at the heights of his tasks and quite precisely refers to what was on the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. So, what's the idea? The Foreign Service has been sitting at home for two years in its underpants, nothing has happened in fact, and now there is an additional demand for current funds to improve, I do not know, its living conditions. In essence, the most interesting thing at the foreign restaurant, which I think... This is the meeting of the Three Seas Initiative. So EUR 394 817. We looked at the proposal yesterday night, where I asked for a deletion from the Presidential Chancellery, where there is also this meeting of the Three Seas Initiative, where there is... There were 568,000, so there were 800 thousand. There are two more ministries, two more positions, state institutions, where together this three-sea summit is budgeted together, if I remember from my head, somewhere one and a half million. It is simply a position where under the mystical, totally unnecessary event, which I probably do not know, will not even happen, because some benefit to Latvia from some kind of... Now spend one and a half million parties, actually one evening, two evening parties. And put it in different institutional programs. That's one thing. The other thing. I personally cannot accept that our foreign service... it is not just about the foreign service, it is about all the ministers... they, poor people, have to move only in the business class. Thus, it is not possible to come from Finland to the economic class. Many people have traveled to Scandinavia by plane and themselves know how big its business class is and how big its economic class is. They, poor people, have to sit in the business class, and then with the transfer they can't pass through the airport, they still have to come to the trap with the Audi A8 limousine and take it with the transfer, through VIP zone. Really? We're such a rich country? Tell me, what has our foreign service achieved in recent years? The destruction of the Belarusian flag, lost cargo, exports that we do not have, an empty port? Is it that Rinkēvičs will be able to go to the opera somewhere in the business class? I would like to understand what is why at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs we still need to make a payment at the moment, to spend on debt. One argument! And when you ask a question to a foreign minister, there's no answer. At this budget meeting... At the hearing, Rinkēvičs will not speak, will not defend this proposal. He won't explain why he has to fly in a business class from Finland... We have 40 minutes to fly. He can't sit in an economic class, because there's a little bit too fine. And it happens at a time when hairdressers, doctors say they don't have anything to feed their children. The inequality of society is so pronounced and this power is so detached from reality that it is no longer possible. Where else is it? They think they're irreplaceable. And the fact that our media... they buy media for the previous proposal, our media do not write about it, do not criticise it, our media do not even criticise it. Negotiations from secret government sittings appear, where they see that they do not take decisions to reduce the pandemic, but only take decisions in such a way that they do not begin... we cannot now make a single decision, because then we will be more unpopular, then we will take that decision really later. And that's the spirit. Rinkēvičs has damaged all our foreign affairs to the last. He's been in for 10 years. Thanks to Rinkēvičs, the economic situation in the country has deteriorated. Please support my proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U43	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U44	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues and colleagues! Undoubtedly, even today's assessment of the situation, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a role to play if we look at even at Belarus' border issues. Hopefully, it will remain only at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and will not come to the Ministry of Defence, but at the same time, these six million, almost six million, which are additionally allocated to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, would be useful for science. Yes, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can also do this for the benefit of science. Secondly, in view of the creation of 10 new posts, three of them will be fixed-term... or if the Three Seas Initiative Summit is meant to be the case, or if the lobby campaign for the elections to the UN Security Council, if perhaps it is positive... with the result, and yet. These amounts must now be assessed in a particular situation, because there are things that the government already has in the co-situation, as well as the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in assessing... For example, returning our citizens to Latvia in the first wave respectively, resolved with financial contributions from other sources. And at this point, in parallel, of course, to the Three Seas Initiative Summit... three institutions - the Presidential Chancellery, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Economics -, yes, 1.5... Almost 1.5 million are devoted to this. This money would also be useful for other needs that Latvia needs now. In my opinion, due to the high level of appreciation of the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, these six million additional funding could have been lost this year, knowing that the additional money has been allocated from other sources as well as from previous years. However, I would call on the coalition Members to evaluate what we are now giving to and for, because the President of the Bank of Latvia has also said: it is better to solve one major problem than to invest in small ones to solve other problems and not to solve anyone together. Once again, these six million would be useful for science and also for oncology, where the funding provided is insufficient. At the moment, looking at the 10 new posts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Three Seas Initiative Summit, where three restaurants cooperate and spend one and a half million, the question arises as to what effect and what it will bring to Latvian citizens, Latvian citizens, including the solution to medical fees, as well as the lobbying of the UN Security Council, even though it may be a result there, and yet almost a million - it looks crazy and useless to see what the situation is now. In fact, the priority of the 2022 budget should, however, be health issues, including overcoming the effects of the community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U45	The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U46	Colleagues! The budget is on principle - what can be required of us? Balls, celebrations, grand pianos, garden arrangement. What then do we celebrate, and where should we go? We have just been in the first place in Europe with Covid-19 cases. Mortality is one of the highest to us. The public debt is approaching its maximum. The Minister of Finance has warned us of how much one day the pilot pays. And that's all at the expense of the debt. Many sectors are going through a severe crisis. Both the provision of services, hospitality and the catering industry. People stay out of work there. And it is not known when these sectors will be able to recover at all and start working. Again the people will have to pull the belt, but it's nothing, and the ministries will hold the feasts, and will go to the summits. Perhaps, however, we should be united once - solidarity with the people - and say to the whole world that we have a crisis, we have a really deep crisis, and so our priority is economic recovery, our priority is our people, and we will not make the next year's summits, let us not go on expensive missions, because we have other priorities and our priorities are human. And that would be fair - fair to the people. Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U47	Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U48	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, This proposal. Likely, as Head of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I have a duty to explain the importance of the Three Seas Initiative in general and what it involves, because the impression from the debate is that there is little understanding at all. The initiative itself is very brief. The initiative has already been set up in 2015 and brings together 12 Member States, including three Baltic and Central European countries, in order to reduce, as they say, the differences between Western and Eastern Europe in the area of infrastructure, construction and development, as even according to the International Monetary Fund, the difference between these regions is estimated to be reduced so that we in the Eastern and Central European regions can come closer to the level of connectivity, mobility in Western Europe requires around 600 billion investments. The three-sea initiative is directly a way of linking the north with the south through joint projects, where the private sector is also prioritised. With its involvement, it has created three seas... a fund which identifies the projects submitted by those Member States and assesses them. The difference, perhaps, from other European funds is that they are not in the form of grants, but, on the contrary, the fund is actively involved, assumes this risk of co-ordination with the private sector by implementing very important regional infrastructure projects in the areas of digitalisation, energy, security and infrastructure, including roads, railways and ports. For the summit itself. It is not the first summit within the framework of the Three Seas Initiative. If I don't pray, it will be the seventh summit. And in this respect, Latvia has taken the initiative to organise it. I think that the sums that are intended to organise the summit are optimal, because the summit itself consists of three dimensions... in a sense four dimensions. There is a political dimension, the level of the Heads of State or Government of these Three Seas Initiative Member States, a political debate. The second dimension is the business forum, which will not only provide an opportunity for our local entrepreneurs to present both their projects and networking with entrepreneurs from Central Europe, but will also broaden their common understanding of the things that need to be done in the region as a whole. The third dimension is the non-governmental sector, civil society, and the fourth, by the Saeima's Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, when it comes to the Three Seas Summit... That is also the parliamentary dimension. If we look at these common financial resources, I think this is a global practice in organising these levels of expenditure-related activities, but, of course, we can also look at how much benefit in the economy itself from organising this summit, because, however, they will not be just Latvian entrepreneurs, they are also, as I mentioned, the participation of 12 Member States, including partner countries and strategic partners, as let us accept, in this summit, which includes both travel costs and hotels, and these are additional revenues for our entrepreneurs within the framework of this summit. I think that it will probably be possible for economists to make the calculation that this summit has indirectly contributed to our economy, against setting, let us assume, these expenditures currently approved in the budget for the intended summit. But in general, I think that we also have to take on the readiness of the Baltic States to lead the Three Seas initiative in the region, which is both in the national interest of Latvia and in the regional interest, and it is through such measures that not only networking but also a broader understanding of the importance of the Three Seas initiative. It is not just about three seas, but it is about countries bordering these seas: the Baltic Sea, the Adriatic Sea... I ask you to combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U49	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U50	And so it opens up more opportunities. In total, 87 large-scale infrastructure projects on different levels of development in the context of Latvia and the Baltic States have already been identified in the Three-Sea Initiative. Of course, the largest project is the availability of Rail Baltica, which is not only the construction of this railway line, it also has efficient services alongside it. And this can generate much greater resistance not only to the construction of infrastructure, but also to economic development. Consequently, I think that what has been requested from both the Presidential Chancellery and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is a reasonable amount of finance to be able to organise a high-quality summit, and I therefore call for this proposal to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U51	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U52	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, First of all, I very much appreciate the speech by my colleague, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Rihards Kola. Richard Coll... Colleagues and all those listening to us today are the third day that we have a debate on the next year's budget. The debate is from nine in the morning to seven in the evening every day. This is the third day. Mr Kola, if I am not mistaken, is the fourth coalition Member who was ready to engage in this debate. For this, Mr Kola once again - all the respect! So, colleagues, on the proposal. Here, although the proposal is quite broad in this amount, its debate has mainly developed into the Three Seas Initiative. First of all, given that this three-sea summit has already been announced and is being planned, then I think it would not be reasonable for the legislator to abolish it at this point in time, because it should have been decided earlier on whether this summit is justified or not. Given that this summit has now been announced, it is clear that, if we say so, remove funding, the consequences for our country's reputation will be even more devastating than the consequences of all that this government has achieved over the last three years. Let us not put our hand on it. So, with regard to this summit as such and in general, participation in this three-sea initiative. Perhaps this participation is necessary, perhaps not necessary. I will not insist on the fact that I have sufficient knowledge to assess, so that I can draw a qualified conclusion as to whether or not it is necessary. What is clear is that it will cost quite a... In general, just organising a summit as such will cost a lot of money. It will cost almost a million euros from both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the President's Registry if I am not mistaken. You can and must raise the question, why do we give both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, if I am not mistaken, almost 400 thousand to organise this summit, as well as a further half a million to make another solemn event? Would this summit not be enough with one solemn event? For example, only the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has already expressed opinions, but... And that's not all the costs yet. As far as I can see, this three-sea initiative also has its own investment fund in which the country invests money. For example, Lithuania has invested EUR 20 million. Here Mr. Kola has not said how much investment is planned in this fund, or maybe already from Latvia. If investment from this investment fund is to a large extent in Latvia and its investments are to a greater extent than the money that the Latvian State will invest in this fund, then, of course, we will conclude that participation in this initiative has been quite effective and correct. But if we invest in this fund and this fund invest in other countries, then it will be a rather dubious initiative. The problem, colleagues, is that we very much like having summits. We have a summit after the summit. We have a political discussion after a political discussion, but we do not ask questions after what these summits have brought to us, the state of Latvia. What was that investment? What? And I'm afraid after this three-sea summit... The summit will come to an end, and then no one except us... and I will, of course, not ask questions about the concrete outcome of this summit that the country and economy of Latvia obtain from this summit. These are the issues that we have to ask for every summit, for every policy... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U53	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U54	Very short. I absolutely agree with Mr Dombrovskis, because it is not the first summit, and I think that, in the case of the summit, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Foreign Affairs Commission should probably also say that, since the previous summit, the result is such, such and not just good and beautiful negotiations and declarations, and so on. That's the point one. Two points. Talking about updating summits in general. Here, I cannot agree with Mr Dombrovskis because, unfortunately, in world practice, there has been the abolition and relocation of summits on various grounds in recent times, we are not living in simple, normal circumstances, we are living in a pandemic situation - a pandemic situation! - which is unpredictable. Spending can be predicted, spending can be done, but the result can be zero at all. And the last one. The argument must indeed be serious. Mr. Cole, you apologies to me. - I learned a lot of new things. To say, I learned that the Rail Baltica project has a major impact on the countries of the Three-Sea Initiative, that Germany and the US also belong to the three-Sea Initiative, as well as many other things, but I did not know what we have received. And this is not Mr. Cole's problem. This is a problem for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because we often cannot formulate policies that are in line with our national interests, because it is very difficult to stick to national policies within the European Union. It needs to be understood and agreed, or thought should be given to how to change it. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U55	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U56	Thank you, colleagues. I would like to ask my colleagues to support Mr Gobzem's proposal and to reduce funding for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because I see very many and very serious problems in the efficiency of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in achieving its objectives. That is, if we look at this period, we will see that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs organised a visit by the Prime Minister of Latvia to Belarus before the Belarus elections. In other words, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not see the risks associated with the Belarusian state leaders and provided political communication between the Prime Minister of Latvia and the President of Belarus, but later a very unpleasant turnaround took place and politics changed dramatically. It turned out that a visit and even a hockey championship could not take place. Then the question is, how high is the quality of the Foreign Ministry's service performing its duties and doing its job if, after one year, there are such sharp turns in foreign policy? Next moment. No matter how sharp the relationship may be, taking the flag off during the sport competition is also an indicator of political culture or understanding. Yes, I do not support and do not agree, let us say, with the glorification of the regime, but, at the same time, I believe that any event taking place during a sport competition that has been considered a ceasefire since the Olympic Games... but we can see that there is now a hybrid war and a hybrid war. So during these sports competitions the flag is not in place. And it does not represent a positive restaurant of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At the same time, there are very interesting phenomena, such as the non-inclusion of Belarus oligarch Aleksina on the sanctions regime list, which is also achieved thanks to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Latvia. And only when Alexin changed his property rights to the companies belonging to Latvia, is included in this list accordingly. Then the question arises: how could this happen? How could it happen that from the beginning the Latvian foreign restaurant organises the Prime Minister's meeting, then announces that the neighbors have the regime, then does not include the oligarchs close to this regime, but then places him on the list. And another question, which is very, very complex and, consequently, also complex - why do all the peri-peripecies and challenges occur? Only because it is a blind, unthinking and perhaps even contrary to Latvia's interests implemented foreign policy. Where else are the problems in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs department? In 2019 Latvia was visited by experts of the World Bank. They offered their help and their platform to Latvian companies to ensure access to Asian markets. But in 2020 Latvia closed its economic representation in Kazakhstan, which is one of the countries that could be interesting for Latvia's business development and which was also recommended by World Bank experts during the visit to Latvia in 2019. The question arises: does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs really be able to provide a thoughtful, high-quality policy that supports the Latvian economy? Is something quite different behind those loud actions, flags, and tensions? When, on the one hand, the flag is removed and, on the other hand, the regime is brought closer to the oligarch, which ensures, most likely, the large influx of smuggled cigarettes on the territory of Latvia and the territory of the European Union, is not included in the list of undesirable persons. All this raises a lot of questions, and who thinks and analyzes events, events and people's words, and actions taken by officials, questions arose... I have many questions for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and... to take appropriate action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U57	Colleagues! The debate will continue after the break. Members' registration is over. So the break is till 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U58	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! We keep sitting after the break. And continue with the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2022, 2023 and 2024, second reading. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U59	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, Before the break there was a long and wide discussion about the Three Seas Initiative Summit, which could... for which quite a lot of money is planned next year, and I wanted to express the position of the Greens/Farmers Union precisely for this nuance. In the opinion of the Union of Greens/Farmers, this summit, this initiative, as a form of economic cooperation initiated by the presidents of the countries of the regions, has been recently established, but it has... It is these energy transport links that are being discussed at the level of the presidents. In our view, it is a welcome initiative and it should not be excluded from this budget... the next budget, all the more, if this summit is planned for Latvia in 2022. And that will be, I think... and also in our group's view, it will be a very big event if the highest officials of the countries of Austria, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Croatia, Estonia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia and Hungary attend this summit, which would take place in Latvia in 2022, and discuss these economic issues. I think it would not only be a great opportunity for Latvia to get and hide, to advertise, to get some kind of projects heard, to develop in the interests of Latvia's state, to show Latvia and to draw the attention of some part of Europe, to advertise its country, it is a huge opportunity. The question is whether we will use it. It is another thing how effectively we will achieve this business contact development, how efficiently we will learn to use this opportunity. I regard this as an opportunity for Latvia, as I have already mentioned, if these countries, if the top leaders of these countries would come with their business delegations. It is our goal and task to make sure that they actually arrive in Latvia, to achieve... bring together their business organisations, Employers' Confederation of Latvia, Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Economic relations are developing. Let our producers find new markets. Any such initiative and opportunity must be exploited. It is also absolutely right for the opposition to say that it is really not normal if such an initiative is planned for several ministries and presidents... in the ministries' budgets, where I agree, it is really not normal. It would, however, be normal if it were one responsible body to take full responsibility for coordinating this measure at all levels, including through the budget, to ensure that this summit is successful and has the highest added value. I think it is absolutely right that the split into several budgets is not a place, but a summit like that... and the money in the budget for this summit, provided it is held in Latvia, must be. But here I'll draw attention... And indeed I call all those responsible not to do as they were with the hockey championship. What makes sense that the hockey championship in Latvia is taking place, that fans cannot come to it. It will also make little sense for this summit if these Heads of State and Presidents are not able to go along with business delegations, non-governmental organisations that usually go with them... These delegations are formed and going with the President. There will be little point if only national leaders arrive. Greater added value - and this is our task - to ensure that this part, which comes along with it, joins and allows not only to develop economic cooperation projects between countries and to ensure that Latvia's interests are not only represented there, but also economic business interests are promoted and help our producers develop their project... products outside Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U60	Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U61	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I would like to quote a publication on this issue of the Summit, which was written in 2014: “The Preamble of the Satversme states that the State of Latvia has been created to guarantee the existence and development of Latvian nations, its language and culture through centuries. In order to guarantee the existence and development of Latvian nations, languages and culture, the State of Latvia must invest its efforts to create a balance of forces in the region. It will be difficult, but it is possible to do so - it has been a historic precedent. From the point of view of the security of the Baltic States, the main challenge is to eliminate the threat that Russia poses to the independence of our countries. On the practical side, we must prevent Russia from implementing the Baltic isolation scenario. In the event of a conflict, Russia would most probably try to exercise control over the eastern side of the Baltic Sea, to ensure full control of the airspace and to implement an onensive land through South Lithuania or North-East Poland to Kaliningrad. The permanent presence of NATO troops in the Baltic States reduces the possibility that such a scenario could ever happen, however, it cannot be completely ruled out even with the significant presence of NATO forces in the Baltic States. I have no doubt that NATO and, in particular, the US would be active if Russia tried to play the Eastern Ukraine scenario in a NATO country, but it must be recognised that the dependence on Russian energy and the relatively high distance between certain Western EU countries and potentially threatened countries makes it possible to mention that these countries' actions in a crisis situation can be very passive. On the other hand, the ability of the nearer European countries to help in a crisis situation is limited. The conflict in Ukraine highlights that in many West Ukraine is a distant, exotic and unknown country, without going into the details that the future of Ukraine will determine whether the imperial ambitions of Russia will be halted at their beginnings or whether it will be able to redesign the European map. Latvia's foreign policy action should be arranged so that we do not have to think about the possibility of such scenarios and solutions, if any. The foreign policy of the Baltic States should be aimed at mitigating the causes of the threat. The causes are the current fragmentation of the peoples of the regions and the influence of an imperialist state over neighbouring countries. I see that this threat can only be addressed qualitatively if geopolitical changes are taking place in the Baltic-Black Sea region. In addition to the existing cooperation formats with the European Union and NATO, a new cooperation format between the Baltic States, Poland, Ukraine and, preferably, Finland and Belarus should be developed. With the support of Western countries, these countries could be counterbalanced by the newly created Russian Empire. There has been a precedent in the letter when several of the countries have worked together closely to fight their national independence. At the end of 1918 and in the beginning of 1919, when the Red Army began its offshore towards the West, the armed forces of Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania, Poland, Ukraine and Belarus, as well as the German military units who had not been evacuated to Germany, joined the country. The parties of the United States were supported in hostilities. The Red Army managed to destroy the independent state of Ukraine and Belarus, but Poland and the Baltic States managed to stop the red army from an onensive and win the war against Soviet Russia. Not identical, but similar situation is present. If Ukraine, Poland, Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, Finland and even Belarus want to maintain their long-term independence, they must be united in order to strike a balance of forces in our region. From a geopolitical point of view, it would be ideal for Moldova to decide to move further west [...]. We can talk about the balance of power by comparing various indicators. Russia has a population of around 144 million, the Baltic-Black Sea countries of 88,5 million [...]." If we count on this Three Seas initiative, it is 110 million inhabitants without Ukraine, if we count on Ukraine, it is 150 million. For the Baltic-Black Sea countries, the approximate budget is close to a trillion euro. This is also equivalent to Russia. I would call for the two times of the debate to be joined up.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U62	Your times are united. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U63	"The positive message is that all countries in the Baltic-Black Sea region could benefit from cooperation. Cross-border economic cooperation could offer a broad potential as close cooperation between northern and southern Europe would be established on the eastern side of Europe. The infrastructure already allows this to happen, but it needs to be stimulated to take place at a different level. On the political side, the common position of these countries would allow for a symmetrical relationship with Russia. Russia is expected to create obstacles to the development of such cooperation and it is unlikely that the European Union would strongly support the development of such an organisation. NATO, as the world's strongest military alliance, to which we belong, should become a umbrella under which the Baltic-Black Sea countries engage widely. In order to safeguard its independence and ensure prosperity in the long term, Latvia and the Baltic States in general must be able to influence geopolitical development in our region in the desired direction. If we fail to do so, the future of the Baltic States will be formed by other countries." With regard to this Three Seas Initiative Summit... This is a very important step towards strengthening cooperation between these countries. Ukraine and Moldova have also been invited to this summit, for which it is very important, to get out of Russia's sphere of influence. The cost of the Summit can certainly be discussed. And I accept that the process of organising a further summit will also probably lead to cost savings, but I stress once again: such a summit must take place, because it could be very important, especially in this very difficult geopolitical situation, where we have now reached, where there is actually even a military threat to our country's existence at our borders, it is very, very important. And I would also call on the members of the opposition, like the Union of Greens and Farmers, perhaps to talk less about this summit as such, to talk about budgetary expenditure, as it is justified, but to support the summit as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U64	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U65	Returning to the proposal. So first of all for this three-sea initiative. Indeed, this initiative itself, it has the potential and logic, and it would really give Latvia opportunities. Another thing is whether we will be able to take advantage of these opportunities. And that is what I would call for in this debate: not to mix flies with stems together. We are talking specifically about what Latvia is prepared to do to take advantage of this initiative. I took part in the meeting of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, which presented this initiative in relation to Latvia's opportunities, Latvia's projects, and I expected that we, as the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, will continue to take some decisions that could help Latvia, our entrepreneurs to make better use of this initiative. But as a result of which everything was reduced, this sitting, to the fact that we therefore want to spend about a million, even though the million was not named... but that's why we want to make a summit here. Nobody told me it would cost a million... about one million. On the other hand, I suggest that perhaps it would be worth saying that we are not only talking about spending money, but also how we will actually use this initiative, this initiative has been left unanswered at all. Nothing further has been done about how we could actually... to examine these possible projects with which Latvia could participate, because many of these projects, those that were mentioned, the most ready, were at the level of fairy tales. It means real that we're ready to throw money in, but real how to learn... how to get something from this initiative, we are not prepared to do anything. All we're ready to do is have a summit here. Now, what's the point of holding this summit, and the presidents coming here... If someone you know how this initiative works, how this fund works, they don't decide here, they... It's about like Levit would have invited somewhere... a country that would say that it would help them in some way to learn this fund's money. There will be no such contribution! But we'll have another story about that. Talking about this proposal, which made me really embarrassed to get to know the request for a budget for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, raised legitimate questions... is that Latvia has actually decided to stand as a candidate in the UN Security Council and is ready to spend several million. In reality, they have been budgeted and supported, including nearly 900 thousand next year. And then the question was: why the Ministry of Foreign Affairs... Why does Latvia need it? And the answers from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I quote: “Participation in the UN Security Council is perceived as proof of maturity and international prestige.” Indeed, we must leave some enti million in some lobbying campaigns to show in some way that we are a mature country? Is that really the most effective way? Go on. When asked, what are the benefits that we would otherwise not be able to realise for Latvia? It has been said that the UN Security Council is the only body in the world that makes decisions binding on all UN Member States to ensure peace and security throughout the world. Without a board, there is no possibility to directly influence this agenda and decisions. Johaidi! Are we dreaming to influence order around the world?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Maybe we're at least starting by bringing order into our country from the beginning. If you can't do that here, what influence do you have on the world? Go on. Another benefit. No other international structure can provide Latvia with global recognition and opportunities to show ourselves to us so far in less traditional regions of the world. The following is Africa, Latin America, and the Caribbean, literally all these exotic countries. And then it's going to spend this sum, fly on missions there, prepare it for all. What amusing, in all that, we see once again this overlap when, let's say, the permanent representation of the United Nations in New York, so there are more than 200,000 in this framework... So it's still here. Go on. For representation in Vienna - 120,000. That is an interesting position: targeted grants in UN bodies. What does that mean? What are we going to do with these targeted grants in those UN bodies? And these are just separate contexts. And it's still on that background that these expenses... We also know that, alongside these diplomatic missions, there has been an increase of about one and a half million compared with the previous year. Then the question is, what is the contribution of all this? Do we really have to spend all these millions instead of directing them to science or medicine? Colleagues, reflection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U66	The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U67	Hello, chair of the sitting! Hello, colleagues! And in the face of these summits and all the other high-level events, I can only agree with what my colleague said that we are holding summits after summits - funny to talk about, funny to turn the cameras in front of us, and there is no effect. I can talk quite in depth about cooperation between Latvia and Moldova. I had the honour to participate in the conclusion of the agreement between the local authorities of Latvia and the local authorities of Moldova in 2013. In the meantime, I have observed that Estonian investors are active in Moldova, and the Estonians have introduced their system of e-signature in the Moldovan government. Lithuanian companies are actively expanding in Moldova, building their factories and so on. Latvian “Mikrotik” has also invested this in the Moldovan economy. But on the overall background, we don't look very beautiful there, because our help is more like spending money on the level of talk. Yes, non-governmental organizations, if they succeed from abroad... Get some money from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs by tender to arrange it. Thank you to those people who are still trying to do so. These are several, including officials whose value is very high in my eyes, but such a business tow in this direction is very minimal. Therefore, in my opinion, this money, which is now being provided for, to be honest about the camera, would be much more practical. We really want to help Moldova, and they could help us in their turn. Then there must be real proposals, real projects that are continuing and achieve results. Latvia has already been praised for organising its meetings, meetings and meetings, which always end with the decision to hold the next talk and chanting without result. Once again, I join my fellow Members who said that, if we take such measures, we already need to know, before we spend money, what we want, not - high officials will be present, everything will be beautiful, everything will be cool, the hand will fall apart. And then what? What happens then? Because this money needs to be invested wisely. There's not much money, it's not much for the country. The fact that the government now seems to be able to borrow large amounts of money on foreign markets and does not have to account for these loans to the Saeima is also a fact. But we need to think about the next Saeima and about the future Members, who will also have to face the consequences of these decisions. Colleagues, I call for thought to be given, however, to prevent these great expenditures and to organise such summits and the rest, but with mind and mind, not by giving money and then trying to spend it in various attractions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U68	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Bondar... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U69	Thank you, colleagues, for the broad debate. I would just like to remind you that the 19th proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U70	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - Member Gobzem's proposal! Please, let's vote! It's not about 19, it's against 51, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U71	Colleagues, 20. - also the proposal from Member Alda Gobzem. Associated with the Internal Market and Consumer Protection Programme and other programme... related matters... redirecting funds to deficit recovery. In fact, Mr Gobzem said at the time in his statement to the Commission that the money was being trampled out without justification. This proposal was not supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U72	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U73	Thank you for your word. So most of my proposals are related to the fact that we do not redistribute money and put money into another pocket, but reduce the budget deficit, that is to say, do not take so much, because we do not have to borrow so much. And this proposal is about it, too. Thus, the Ministry of Economics does not need to borrow. I read: ‘Strengthening the capacity of the Competition Council’. Everywhere, dear people, where you read "capacity building" it means raising wages in public administration. Do we really need it? We have too little wages or too few employees in public administration without bonuses and without them all? We have the heaviest public administration in Europe, I think. Our private sector is not able to maintain the public sector that has shifted. And you further strengthen your capacity! For us in the country, the population is falling every year. Now you just go to the airport... The only thing I think airBaltic planes fly - in one direction, away from Latvia all the time. Soon the last one will turn off the light at the airport. I'll probably be the last one to stay here, because Karin's gonna have to get to America when everything's stolen here. And they need to strengthen their capacity at a time when the population is declining. We need to increase public administration. Why? When you ask a question to the Ministry of Economics, there is no answer. The Minister for Economics, before he became the Minister for Economics, spoke, by the way, about the fact that we had a public administration, he was a fruit collector of something or something related to fruit, he traded something... Bananas... Then he spoke of public administration becoming too perplexed. Now he continues to appeal to the public administration, because he is located in the National Association, which has always been against Latvian citizens. For all years, while the National Association is in power. And the National Union has been in power for the last 30 years in all governments, the National Union has been the decisive voice in all governments. In this government too, as you have noticed, Raivis Dzintars was the one who prevented the release of the Pavilut because it would be bad then this government would fall. In all governments where the National Association has been, the number of Latvian residents, in particular Latvians, has decreased... the need to strengthen the capacity of the public sector by raising its own wages. The same applies to new digital... This is where you can buy a computer, where you can find some extra money... Not enough of what is already in place. That's it, too... Well, I think the OIC would have removed, had revised some other positions, we would have had enough money in the sector. I am asking for support for my proposal and for a reduction in public budget expenditure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U74	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U75	I would just like to remind you that the 20th proposal was not supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U76	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 20. - Member Gobzem's proposal! Please, let's vote! It's not about 18, it's against 49, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U77	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - also the proposal from Member Alda Gobzem. This is linked to ensuring the functioning of the Board of Fiscal Discipline. In fact, the applicant calls for this funding to be directed towards addressing the fiscal deficit. In essence, in the commission, the rapporteur asked the question - who needed such a board? This proposal was not supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U78	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U79	So, dear people, let you understand. In the Ministry of Finance, which... In general, I believe that there are the highest wages in the public sector. We've got this... The Board of Fiscal Discipline is an example. For the last two years Latvia does not need to follow any fiscal discipline at all, it can borrow as much as it wants, it can spend as much as it wants. You have heard in the last two years at least one text of the Fiscal Discipline Council on where the wrong spending is... where are the funds and the like simply displayed? Have you heard that? I'm not. It seems to me that the majority of society has not heard it. Such a Board of Fiscal Discipline is not necessary in nature in Latvia, and even assuming it is necessary, it does not have anything to do at the moment, because there is no discipline and nothing to follow, it can borrow as much as it wants, it can spend as much as it wants. What are they doing there? I've seen, by the way, what they're doing. I have had one contact with the Fiscal Discipline Council in my life. The official is coming and showing some exus. Make up some kind of exus, show me something there. It's completely pointless, bureaucratic. They are also dealing with it and receiving wages. Here I read: this extra spending is "Strengthening the capacity of the Fiscal Discipline Council". Everywhere you read the budget "capacity building" is wage increases. What else is there? ‘ Facilitation of Latvia’s involvement in projects funded by EU external action instruments” - 176 thousand. What? ‘ Promoting Latvia’s involvement in projects funded by EU external action instruments’. So where will Latvia get involved? Is there one of the Ministry of Finance here? You're not? No one will explain anything as usual. Some projects are mystical, which once again is probably some kind of political tourism trip and nothing more. Go on. ‘ Strengthening the capacity of the FM resoror, including the UUB, the VK and SRS Tax and Customs Police Administration and improvement of customs infrastructure’. So again - salaries to the UUB, salaries to the State Audit Office, salaries to the State Revenue Service. So to strengthen financial restaurants. They already have the biggest salaries in general in public administration, but they still need a little bit more, because Mrs. Jaunzemes is probably not enough for her four or five thousand months when she has knocked out all the small business in Latvia. Go on. He goes on to say: ‘Public Electronic Media Council’. It needs funds. We don't need such advice at all, I think. Number one. Number two. It is again to buy - to buy! - those supervisors who monitor the media, because the media are not a media tool but an PR (public relations) tool for power. Therefore, they should be given the resources. And what else is there? ‘ Building in Kalpaka Boulevard 6, Riga, and Cēsu iela 28, Limbaži, covering reconstruction, adaptation of premises and other related expenses for the needs of the Public Prosecutor’s Office and the Ministry of Justice...’. These are some repairs that are necessary for the Public Prosecutor's House and something like that. Let's assume that there's a need for repairs, let's do it. But then maybe we don't have to spend that huge money and build some super-expensive prisons to two security authorities, everyone who can't be... They can't be in the same house - two security authorities? Every house should be built by 50 or how many million? And now is the time. The Constitutional Protection Bureau and the State Security Service, who do not protect the Constitution and protect the security... the security of people against the criminal, corrupt regime and allows it to be. Our Prosecutor General protects our people right now? Our power doesn't make decisions? Television shows how decisions are not made. Criminal procedure initiated? No, it's not. What does criminal proceedings be initiated for? The fact that a dissatisfied person simply says that he expects Puci to be punished once in life. It's about it, and that's it. There you go! Please support and do not provide additional funds to the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U80	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U81	Very respectful Head of the sitting! I'd like to... I am referring to this debate, mainly on the basis of the reflections launched by Mr Gobzem on the Fiscal Discipline Council. Here I would like to say that, in this case too, I find it difficult to oppose the need for a Fiscal Discipline Council. I would say that it clearly plays a very important role, and if we can in some way strengthen the Fiscal Discipline Council, that is very good. But where is that bad thing? The bad thing is how much we listen to what the Board of Fiscal Discipline is trying to tell us. And here, my fellow Members, there are quite a lot of accusations, and I think it is for you that we listen very much. We are spending huge resources on the Board of Fiscal Discipline to monitor our budget, and now the circumstances are such that we do not really have such a fiscal ceiling. Then it is right that the question arises: what do we need such a Board of Fiscal Discipline? However, if we look at the opinion of the Board of Fiscal Discipline on this budget, then there is a lot of recognition and emphasis that the Board of Fiscal Discipline has made, in my opinion, at the right time. It is worth thinking about asking ourselves why we ignore these questions. Remember! When there were the first waves of the community, if it were to be said, the Board of Fiscal Discipline was the one that indicated that these support instruments were insufficient. We had a parliamentary secretary at the Ministry of Finance who allowed Members of the Saeima to ask a rhetorical question as to whether we really should support everyone who breathes at this moment when the economy is closed. Well, there was a situation, colleagues, you all remember this, and it was the Board of Fiscal Disciplining that was that, I think, which gave us a proper stick to the entire ruling coalition and showed that, at this point, there was still a need to support entrepreneurs, and this support started. But if we look at this budget, this multi-annual budget, then I think there is a place for the opinion of the Fiscal Discipline Council, both on the investment policy, which we so much like to emphasise to some colleagues in our coalition that it is, you see, this investment package and now everything will go and develop. Here, too, the rebuttal that Mrs Steinbuck made clear at the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) at the end of her speech, that investment, development must really help the economy to recover after the Covid-19, when the pandemic is coming down. If you do not understand this hint with a myth, then I will tell you: colleagues, these investments, which are in your investment plan, are highly politically motivated and correspond to some narrow vision of political parties, but whether this will help Latvia recover from the economic crisis, is a big question. This is said not only by the opposition, but also by the Board of Fiscal Discipline. The Board of Fiscal Discipline also points to this. The Board of Fiscal Discipline also points out the need to provide substantial support for these areas, sectors, which are economically affected. In this case, the coalition has already rejected a whole series of opposition proposals in its accompanying draft laws, where we offered solutions with tax policy, how to support sectors - not only certain companies, but also sectors - including those companies that are trying to fight in some way and do not come after state support, but are fighting themselves. These companies too deserve support, and tax policy is the best way to provide this support. That was also what the government itself had said. Only when we came to the budget review, where it must also be reflected, is it all disappearing. Consequently, these decisions of the Board of Fiscal Discipline have become such that either they support the budget or they do not support it, but no one is going in the details. In my opinion, these details are the most important ones in these opinions, where it would also be worth listening to and ever following them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U82	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U83	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Dear colleagues, I will not be able to support this proposal, because ten years ago I created a Fiscal Discipline Council, I wrote legislation to it, I created a model, I convinced the Ministry of Finance, coalition partners and so on. In my opinion, this Board of Fiscal Discipline has been working very well for all these ten years. I have great joy in such an inheritance. If, for example, we look at how the Board of Fiscal Discipline has acted over the last few years, during this crisis, then, of course, it has not objected to raising the fiscal deficit, because if the government... If we did not create budgets with deficits in recent years, then we would in no way be able to give, for example, stop-overs to companies affected by the pandemic, to those services sectors and so on. I remember well that almost all the opposition colleagues had been starting a year and a half ago... We called on the government to be more reasonable and to grant more benefits to the affected sectors than those provided by the government at that time. All this, of course, was possible only at the expense of the deficit. That's one. At the same time, of course, I do not support in any way the fact that the government is fiscaling them... So to say, the locks were completely opened and went to the second extreme. As I have reminded you on several occasions, over these four years, the government has borrowed more money than the Estonian Government has borrowed over 30 years. I do not support this, and this was also pointed out by the Board of Fiscal Discipline that government fiscal expenditure has been excessive. The Board of Fiscal Discipline also pointed out - although, of course, being correct and sufficiently polite, however, clearly and unequivocally - the questionable steps of the government - such as investment in airBaltic's share capital - to a rather questionable, too generous policy in the new construction sector, with a rather timely indication of overheating of the construction market. So the Board of Fiscal Discipline has been, in my opinion, almost professional throughout these years and, in the end of the Board of Fiscal Discipline, I think it is unlikely that this will contribute to the reduction in the deficit in many of the years to come, most likely on the contrary. And a small point: the Board of Fiscal Discipline is not paying them at all, but less than EUR five million a year, as the proposal states. The Board of Fiscal Discipline (I do not remember the exact figure) pays less than EUR 300 000 per year, which in my opinion is quite an adequate sum for everything that the Board of Fiscal Discipline does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U84	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Bondar... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U85	On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, I would like to remind you that the 21st proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U86	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 21. - Member Gobzem's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U87	Also 22. - Alda Gobzem's proposal. Related to the reallocation of funds from the monitoring and control of the state of food safety and animal health to the... redirecting funding to deficit reduction. In fact, my colleague Gobzem, during the debate on proposal 22, asked a very simple question: "Where will the money be spent?" And I would just like to say that this proposal was not supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U88	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U89	Dear people, so I asked the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission a simple question: where will the Ministry of Agriculture spend 55 million extra? 55 million! The doctors needed it, how many, 40 million? And then I take that budget form because... The Minister for Agriculture, Gerhard, has disappeared. He is, by the way, also from the National Association. He's not. She doesn't even seem to me. If there was no such minister, we would not even feel if the Ministry of Agriculture had or had not changed its leadership. It doesn't matter if there's a Gerhard or there's a Gerhard. But what I read: 50 million - “Improvement of the sector infrastructure of the Ministry of Agriculture and restoration of the technical provision of the state functions of the sector, including investments in land reclamation systems and investments to achieve the objectives of the Green course”. Now I started to think about something about flooding in Latvia? Is all Latvia flooded? 50 million... What - we're going to make a melloration all over Latvia? Has there been a huge natural cataclysm? Well, that's obvious. Is there a major natural cataclysm planned for the future? What is the reason why exactly now 50 million? And I can give you an answer. The answer is... Just now there were opportunities to borrow at your expense, dear people. Just give it to be, and then spend it somewhere. Clearly, there will be someone who will say, “No, you need the fields, you need it!” Clearly, you need it, but the question is, who needs it in the countryside? Firstly, education needs to be in the countryside. Secondly, education needs to be provided in the countryside. Thirdly, education needs to be in the countryside. If we go further, what else do we need in the countryside? Among other things, one of the proposals is for me (the municipalities to withdraw funding) - the municipalities could help to cover expensive utilities this winter. But, no, no, no. I'm thinking of putting something in place... some green courses or something else. What green courses, I'm sorry, in Latvia? China produces the same amount of CO2 in one year... its emissions (or what they call there) as much as they could be in Latvia for 3,000 years. What green course? We read the press that one volcanic eruption in general accounts for 97 percent of the world’s emissions. Like us, a little country... I'm almost empty of people... we got a green course now? It just gets 50 million down here, as I'm sitting behind these books... in front of this shelf of books! That is the question. And most importantly, neither the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission nor the Saeima is coming to defend their proposal, to explain why it is so vital this year, why it should be such an increase that Gerhard has earned such a favor, or it is not so so so that the National Union does not destroy this government. Just 50 million at a time when the doctors cry they don't have, just cheat. That is what this proposal is about: to reduce budgetary spending. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U90	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U91	We, the Union of Greens/Farmers, colleagues, support such an approach as to the need to invest in improving the system of melorisation. This, however, is very important in my view, because we need to think not only about the expenditure chapter, but pay even more attention to the revenue chapter. And the income chapter is already... We need to understand that we are talking about our farmers, our farmers, who currently account for 22 percent of the country's total exports. I will note once again and again that this is the best indicator in the European Union. What we have to do is not only to be able to produce a good harvest and, despite all the challenges, to export it, but also to export it with a higher added value. Investment in development is needed if this highest added value is to be achieved. We cannot put on the farmers' shoulders all the investments they need. If we look at the overall agricultural situation, then farmers in the next period will have a ROW of EUR 250 million in the development budget. That's right - right! - development investments. Investment in development where we also see huge companies developing in Latvia... They are also large farms, producing companies, such as the same ‘Dobele miller’ or the ‘Tukums pienas’ plant development for which... Well, everyone has the joy of such companies. Are they in Jēkabpils, these manufacturing companies that are developing... This brings enormous added value. But we remember that these companies compete not only on the European market with their own products, they compete on the world market with their own products. If we look at what additional national co-payments are in Europe... subsidies, which are not only payments of rural aid by the European Union, but also grants from the national budget, which come with each hectare, for both small farmers and large farmers - this is not comparable. We are very far from those countries that are so-called old European countries, which also produce, grow, produce... And here's this investment... every investment going into the agricultural sector has enormous added value and then a return to the budget, so that we can also pay those doctors, teachers, so that our farmers do not lose out on this fight for competitiveness. I really want to see our farmers developing, so that we don't sell our lands, so that there are as many of our own farmers here as possible to develop... develop their production facilities and have the opportunities to do so. At this point, the situation is not very pleasant. As I have already mentioned, EUR 250 million is a bob in development investments, and this has been pointed out by all agricultural organisations that are currently in Latvia, despite being small or large, quite anyway. In the next multi-annual budget, this hack is huge. If the Ministry of Agriculture sees that it can help with melution, then, colleagues... In agricultural development, mellorisation is a very important area not only for rural development, but also for forest development. If we put our fields together with forests, it is 47 percent of Latvia's total exports. It's a huge balance. The question is, how will we manage this policy, whether we will be able not only to invest in the development of a particular area, or whether we will be able to combine these investments so that production will also develop after these investments, so that we will not only export raw material but also create an offer with added value. At the moment, there are too few support instruments for this, and in this budget, too, they are... It does not really appear these germs that it could have some kind of investment in the future, but at the moment this is a huge support so that our farmers can continue to produce and give back to the budget. This is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U92	Name of Member Evia Papulei. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U93	Madam President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, Mr Reira, who is currently Minister for Finance, says this is a development budget. It seems to me that it is more important to look at how the coalition has shared funding, including additional funding according to priorities. Fifty-five million sharp growth for the Ministry of Agriculture accounts for almost half of it, or only twice as much as it has been given to the Ministry of Health, which is clearly a priority. However, this is twice as high as the financial growth in education. If we look at who has been given education and who has been given the Ministry of Agriculture, it is likely that this is not linked to development. I'm not questioning melution and the green course, but I'm questioning... and does not call into question the remuneration of officials in addition to three million, but questions such positions as "developing and transforming public administration tasks in line with new socio-economic conditions, taking account of developments in public health and sustainability", and so on. I doubt putting a large amount of money into digital technology for some integration business processes and so on. At the same time, when talking about solutions to the pandemic and about managing the effects of the community, you are very often talking about the fact that our society is not sufficiently educated. Then the allocation of twice as small amounts as possible in addition to education, including in terms of pay, does not match your words about development or your words about respect for priorities. To remind you, the Ministry of Education and Science in practice has been granted twice as much funding as the Ministry of Agriculture. Without questioning mellorisation and calling into question the green course, however - is this a development budget? And is such a distribution of funding consistent with the priorities? I don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U94	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Bondar... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U95	This proposal was not supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U96	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 22. - Member Gobzem's proposal! Please, let's vote! 15, 53, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U97	Colleagues, 23. - also the proposal from Member Alda Gobzem. The Commission was not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U98	The word in the debate... open the debate... Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U99	I will be very brief on this proposal. The Ministry of Transport is headed by completely professors. The parliamentary secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Mr Butane, told the Commission, for example, that there is no fault when a front window is broken on a bus, and everything is fine. It was in the context of the question that the car in which it comes from several households should have open windows - under the new regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. Then he applied to speak to Mr. Butane and began to say that if he broke the front window for the big bus, then it can move in this way during the winter. This is an understanding of traffic for the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport. What else can we talk about? And then we are surprised that we have empty ports, that we are in transit, “Latvian Railway” is actually bankrupt and in such a spirit. I wouldn't give these people either a penny or a penny at all - nothing at all would give you security for the simple, because it is clear that money goes to the New Conservative Party. It's just where everything is stolen to the last sant. The benefit of this is zero for the Republic of Latvia. Not exactly! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U100	Name to Member Janis Butan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U101	Good afternoon, dear colleagues and colleagues! Reflecting on what Alda Gobzem said, I just want to say that it was an incident from my life, not the way we drive the traffic. But on the specific proposal, I would like to say that we have prepared several development programmes in the Ministry of Transport, that is, a development programme for the main roads of the country by 2040. We have a development programme for regional roads, with a distribution of priorities and secondary ones. We have a local road programme, as well as a micro-mobility infrastructure. And every euro invested knows where it will be invested. Here I would like to mention that investment in public road infrastructure... each euro invested has a fixed multiplier, not only benefits for drivers, pedestrians, cyclists, but also provides jobs, opportunities for entrepreneurs to work and economic development. When it comes to Alda Gobzem's proposal to withdraw funding directly for the development of road infrastructure, the amount of funding to be withdrawn would be equal to about half of the targeted grants to the municipality for the maintenance of roads or the entire funding for the development of local roads and public micro-mobility infrastructure. Taking into account that all information about the planned plans is public, is available on the “State Roads of Latvia” website, on the website of the Ministry of Transport, the Cabinet of Ministers, as well as all planned works and infrastructure objects, which are planned to be arranged, are publicly available for the coming years and can be verified on the Internet, however, I call for this funding not to be taken away, but to support it, because it is a question of the development of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U102	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U103	Colleagues, in my opinion, the question raised by Mr Gobzem is a point. I cannot agree with Mr Bhutan's arguments that the Ministry of Transport is working well, that all plans have been drawn up and that everything is going on. There is no definitive agreement. We see that one of the fundamental issues of the Ministry of Transport is our transit policy, and unfortunately, our transit policy does not end up doing what it would like. The most striking indication of this is the fact that thousands of people are released from work on the “Latvian Railways” while you drive this ministry. That, in my opinion, is quite a sign. Instead of helping myself to develop transit routes, general infrastructure and, more generally, traffic to help the public budget to develop... What do we see? We see huge investment in airBaltic from the state budget, which could also have been on the roads and other important issues that you yourself mentioned. We can see that thousands of people have been dismissed from “Latvian Railways”. Well, colleagues, these are not very pleasant signals. I remember the times when we were the dividends of the “Latvian Railways”... then there was a great deal of reasoning in the government. How much will “Latvian Railways” leave, how much for development, how much for the state budget? As is currently the case with other capital companies that, unfortunately, are not under your supervision. Perhaps it is good that it is not under your supervision, but in the area of traffic, it is indeed a rather major disaster that is happening at the moment. As a result, we can also see if we are talking specifically about roads... is minus 50 million total for road infrastructure. We will then go further with the ZZS proposals on municipal targeted grants, where the law is not being enforced and this funding is being reduced. With such a budget for public roads, we do not achieve an improvement in the overall situation of roads, on the contrary, we will continue to increase the number of bad and very bad roads, the proportion of our infrastructure. Unfortunately, in this budget there is not enough funds for improving road infrastructure, I am not even talking, but simply for maintaining it at the existing level. It is not that I have come up with it somewhere, it is from the presentation by the Minister of Transport himself, which he presented to the Commission on Budgets and Finance (Tax) and which was open to absolutely all Members, and where it appeared clearly and lightly. That's why, colleagues, this proposal... I think that this budget would be necessary for the road area and it is in place, but Mr Butane, I think, would be a place to think and see how you manage this sector at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U104	Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U105	Dear President, Dear colleagues, It is a pity that we did not hear the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport when we discussed ports. If we are talking about the tasks of the Ministry of Transport, including, among other things, the provision of functions that are a function of the whole state, these are the main roads of the country, local roads, regional roads, municipal roads. What is happening at the moment with the current level of public funding is that we cannot compare to 2018 or 2019, where expenditure was about eight billion, so there was an incomparably larger heading of expenditure, but we see that roads have been left in the role of an absolute grandson. In particular, as my colleague, Mr Valaiņa, mentioned when we talked about local authorities, local authorities, then we and... to be more precise, the coalition, with a light hand, takes away the money from the municipalities, but at the same time, I think, the people of the Ministry of Transport very well see what investments are needed by the municipalities to put themselves in order for all municipal roads, especially in the outermost rural regions, especially those which are not covered by asphalt concrete, which are gravel roads and where capital investments are needed. Very many of them can be processed... with a so-called ‘double surface’ treatment, to be partially refurbished, not only to refurbish the surface. We worked very actively in previous years, there was a programme - the programme of the country's main roads. To a certain extent, that stage... great steps have been taken, but we still do not have all the A2 motorway completed, and there also need very serious investment... on major national roads. In other words, investment in roads, which is actually the backbone of our country, the backbone of infrastructure, is below every criticism now, there must be consent. I will not be among those Members who will say that, as a result, the Ministry of Transport must take out the funding, no, that funding is objectively much higher and, where I agree with my colleagues, another one on the priority section. Really stand and fall for their area and their industry. I am not even talking about ports, where under the leadership of the New Conservative Party, the Ministry of Transport has done its best with free hand so that the two largest ports of Latvia - the port of Riga and the port of Ventspils - will experience record cargo losses, while we see that ports in other parts of the world, also in our region, are developing. Activities are under way that are in fact linked to changing port models, which can already lead to possible privatisation. And you think it's in Latvia's national interest? I say no, it is not in Latvia's national interest. ( Not to be heard.) ... has been made almost bankrupt by a profit-making company. ‘ Latvian railways” – exactly the same situation. Before... instead of fighting for new, more environmentally friendly cargoes to Latvia at the moment, the Ministry of Transport, so that we would really shift these people, these families, who have been working in the transit sector “Latvian Railways”, from perhaps more environmentally friendly cargoes to more environmentally friendly cargoes, nothing is done. It is stated earlier that rail, in fact transit, is not a priority for this political force. Renovate the sections of the train to Bolderaja so that the train goes, but still we can't hear that the train will go to Bolderaja. But families - thousands of families! - loses his job. At the very time of the crisis, free hand is being released from work! Is that normal? No, it's not normal. So if we look at the whole area of traffic, I really cannot say anything good from the point of view of management. But as far as roads and road infrastructure are concerned, one thing is absolutely clear: there is a need for funding more important than it is at present. And in close cooperation with the municipalities, not politically dividing the road sections - we will make this road section, we will not... but with planning regions and with municipalities really where the population needs it most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U106	The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U107	Thank you for your word. Big things usually arise from small things. And here I would like to mention one important and, I have to say, a very large number of people in Latvia. And it's linked to the condition of roads. Last year's money was allocated at a rapid pace to address these ATR issues in order to improve certain regional roads, where the chosen type of repair was surface treatment. Regrettably, the stones used to repair these roads disappeared from the road just as quickly as money was spent. I personally addressed the Minister of Transport, Fare Linkaita, and asked: “What will be the moment when these poor road sections will be arranged?” He answered me, “It will be soon.” Now actually one and a half months after my question was asked. It was last spring. Nothing has changed so far. The roads are as poor as they are (conditionally repaired), they are still. Residents are confronted with trouble due to broken glass, as stones continue to fly away from the surface that is attached. Such examples are available all over Latvia. There are places where the work has been tried to fix, but the work is exactly as poor as it was before. And here we can talk about really losing money in poverty: money is allocated, but the quality of roads is not controlled. We could talk about these road things a lot and dictates. Even though these crazy ideas are that in the edges of the roads, where historical parking places were set up, where heavy cars could stop and wait for the driving season to come back, take a break... they are all closed, because the Ministry of Transport believes it is too expensive for them to maintain these parking areas. Of course, it is too expensive, the easier it is to collect from drivers - freight drivers - the punishment for having passed this permitted time. To punish us on the right, on the left, to punish us in every way - even insane signs of the road, photo-radators are put on the straight sections of the road, where nothing prevents you from driving on 90. Specially placing radar, placing a sign, and then big ones, that we have a very high toll on the gardens. As for people, citizens, there may be a sense of suffocation towards the government, if this is the way we try to collect, collect and collect every option - the more punishments, the better, the better reports, the more beautiful it looks that we are doing something. And that's what we can... examples of the country's political attitude towards the road sector, we can list more and more. We raise money for our own road hauliers, while passersby drives a rather crazy vehicle, especially from Eastern countries, and they are being unchecked. On the other hand, the carriers themselves are being squandered to bee - eaters. Perhaps the Ministry of Transport could once explain to its subordinate institutions that these are our tax-paying citizens and should control those who pass through our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U108	Name to Member Janis Butan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U109	Colleagues! I would like to remind you that the current proposal is a financial reduction of 28,85 million for the maintenance and restoration of public roads. And, referring to what my colleagues have said, I can say that all plans prepared by the Ministry of Transport on public roads - whether they be major public roads, regional, local roads - have been discussed, discussed and discussed with all local authorities of Latvia. The municipalities have recognised these plans as good, fully accepting that this is a realistic and correct direction that should be implemented and not implemented by all the previous governments so far. I therefore call, however, for the financing of road infrastructure, in particular, not to be reduced and for this proposal to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U110	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U111	Good morning, dear colleagues! I had the naive hope of expecting a constructive debate from the opposition, but I see that, however, its progress towards more destruction, such as, for example, this proposal to withdraw about half or more of the planned funding for the restoration of Latvia's roads and improvement of the overall infrastructure next year. Well, everyone will have noticed that roads in this parliamentary term are being repaired, improved, as well as gravel roads are being turned into roads with hard cover on levels that have never been achieved before by any government. There are, of course, such large amounts that our own businessmen have not always been able to carry out their work in a qualitative way either, so that these problems are eliminated and have also been eliminated. There were also a variety of manipulations, including false reports, such as how ports are to be privatised. So, of course, I understand that not the whole society is following the events in the Saeima, the Saeima Commissions, but I can assure you that the planned port reform also lays down a rule that shares... these shares from potential commercial companies cannot be privatised. A similar provision is provided for in the current regulation, by the way, which concerns a single company which has already begun to work. Go on. Well, I must remind you that the priority of the Minister of Transport is indeed rail as a backbone. It is the railways that serve people, the mobility of people that has not been in the past. So so far, more has been an attempt to create an impression of the huge Latvian transit industry of coal transport, even though the same information technology sector has long overfished these sectors and with its added value creates much greater contribution to the country's economy. It's happened a long time ago. I also strongly reject any claims that we have problems with exports or something like that. It should be recalled that exports in Latvia are growing. Also in Latvia at the present time, no matter how beautiful it would be, it... I have to say, if someone wants to, you can enter the website of the State Employment Agency and note that there is currently one of the lowest unemployment rates in the history of independent Latvia (comparable, this is only in the so-called fat years around 2007, 2008). At the moment, there is a situation in Riga that... Riga companies are attracting employees from surrounding regions in a mass manner, and unemployment in Riga itself has fallen to about four percent. I'll remind you, in economic science, that... if the unemployment rate is below five percentage points, it is considered that there is full employment, which is in fact detrimental to the economy, because it is not possible to develop new businesses. I think those who have some basic knowledge of the economy will probably not. Go on. I have to say that to a large extent, why not before the debate... Three-sea initiative... why it's important to talk about things too, why it's all important... because we need to understand that, at the moment, in a geopolitical situation due to the Kremlin's policy, including the transfer of goods to their inland ports... Because I think no one will argue that it's illogical... Putin in some way maintain Latvian ports with cargo under our supervision. Please combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U112	The times of your debate are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U113	Therefore, the development of Rail Baltica will play an important role here, which could potentially create this synergy with one of the three maritime initiative projects on the construction of multimodal centres, which would perhaps be this centre where the cargo could be transhipped from... This is just one of the projects presented at the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, and it is not known why this was why the opposition deliberately chose not to mention that there is, for example, an opportunity to reload from Europe's track gauge to this Russian track, and then it is possible to ensure that we... to work as a transit country, even if there are some cargoes from Europe to Russia, or vice versa, either, even though I doubt strongly that the so-called black industry, such as coal, is now under great pressure in this situation, in order to create directly the energy that is so-called... with high CO2 emissions and generally considered as a dirty form of energy extraction, that any such increase in coal transport will ever return. I think it's just... It's not how the world is moving. And I understand that it is difficult for many to accept it. We must go precisely in this direction of a high value added economy, support... Today, too, we could talk a lot about this, for example, in the direction of start-ups and so on, which potentially creates high added value, where people are employed, high wages are paid, people are also consuming services from other industries, creating a degree of diversification in the economy. This is very important from an economic perspective. Currently, this specific proposal, which calls for a reduction of half of road construction in Latvia, is harmful. I call for this not to be supported in any way. The roads are also one of the most important infrastructure components in Latvia, which should be supported in every way, including, in addition to this budget, a certain part of the funds for micromobility solutions, which is becoming increasingly relevant... I call for this unconstructive proposal to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U114	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U115	For my respect for Mr Feldman, I have applied again. Mr Feldman, you really talked about this debate, and it was very beautiful to listen to you until you talked about transit and these illusions and so on. And that can be the case, and in a way it sounds like it, and every logical person already understands that it needs to change its perspective. It is bad that we avoid seeing the obvious fact that there are a whole range of territories, especially in cities - be it Liepaja or Ventspils - but also in the middle, even Jelgava, where we can see how this economy has transformed into our eyes and created really fantastic business areas with high added value in manufacturing, where this economic transformation is already taking place today, which everyone loves to talk about. And it's clear there that we need solutions to develop it. However, if we are talking about this situation, which you mentioned, about transit, everything is beautiful until we take it and do not compare it in the perspective of the Baltic States. And as soon as the comparison at the level of the Baltic States is taking place, so we see that Lithuania and Estonia do not think so as we do. They find its cargo somewhere, and they don’t have to let thousands of people get off the railroad. They have something to do with this. We don't do it, they do it. We're all going down - they're now standing on some level. And it's overturning these your arguments about that it's some kind of history. This is the present, and our neighbours are using it. But if we are talking about this particular proposal, colleagues, some figures that I have to say to you: 379.4 million last year, this year... This is - this year; next year - 324 million; after a year - 267 million. Colleagues, with this budget for the road area, our roads will remain in a worse position every year, they will not even remain on the same level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U116	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U117	Colleagues! Reflecting on the excellent economic situation and high export growth despite the pandemic, I want to clarify to you (because statistics are very cunning and with numbers as well... not only to read them, but also to understand what they come from and what they actually show)... Thus, yes, we have increased the reference prices of goods exports by 5.5 percent, while services exports to us have fallen by 21.4 percent. And given that the decrease in Latvia's real gross domestic product was faster than the decrease in exports, the share of exports in gross domestic product increased. This also creates these mathematically as if high achievements. Another case is that export prices have also increased, not export prices, but export prices. As a result, again a mathematical phenomenon occurs when the volume of exports is larger in numbers. About Rail Baltica and its economic contribution. Of course, yes, its construction certainly also has a multiplier effect, but the European Court of Auditors' experts pointed out the risks and possible scenarios of development last year when the real economy of Rail Baltica will not have an economic advantage. And also for good reason Latvia specifically wrote letters in the context of the approval and discussion of the multi-budgetary programmes of the European Union, emphasizing the obligation for the European Union to guarantee that the Rail Baltica project will be financed and implemented. So I wouldn't be as optimistic as some of you are talking about the prospects here. Yes, someone will have prospects: there will be prospects for those who will build this funding. But whether there will be an economic contribution, or whether there will be a contribution to raising the level of welfare, it is another question. If we are talking about the unemployment rate and its reduction, we must also understand that in Latvia, the population is falling very rapidly. And it is reduced by taking into account both the negative balance between the newborns and the dead and the number of people who have left outside Latvia. And I also have to understand that, in fact, the problem of Latvian unemployment was related to structural unemployment, with regions, with the level of pay and the quality of the workforce, which is also pointed out by several economists and experts in the field of work. So, actually... Despite the fact that we also have very serious problems with the existence of a high-quality workforce, with experts and specialists in our field of engineering... but we therefore have problems with the low-paid and, in particular, in the regions. We did not equalise employment at regional level, and accordingly, all projects, including Rail Baltica, will mainly concern centre-based rather than regional development. And that only points to the fact that we will continue with regional disparities, we will continue with the quality of life in the regional section, and we will continue with the gap between those who live in cities and live outside urban areas. And unfortunately Rail Baltica will also support only the development of the centre or Pierīga area and the level of income. The issue is under discussion, but I tend to support Mr Gobzem's proposal in principle. You can always find excess costs and you can always optimise the structure and employ... So, I believe, the Ministry of Transport has more to pursue and where to reduce states, salaries and wasteful use of financial resources. That is why I also ask my colleagues to support Mr Gobzem's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U118	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Bondar... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U119	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that this proposal was not supported by the Commission. And the proposal is related to the maintenance and nature of roads and their dispatch. And I have to say in my own name that I started to believe in the full month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U120	Please call me! We will vote in favour 23. - Member Gobzem's proposal! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 11, it's against - 53, it's not. The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, It's time for lunch break. The presence of Members is registered. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U121	Dear Members, Honourable Members! We shall continue the examination of the agenda of the second remote extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 15 November 2021, following a break. Draft law to be examined on the agenda of the sitting: ‘On the medium-term budgetary framework for 2022, 2023 and 2024’, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U122	The President of the sitting. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, We are looking at the 24th proposal tabled by Member Aldis Gobzems. This is related to the costs of administration of courts. And Aldis Gobzems has tabled this proposal to channel these funds towards the deficit. Well, as Mr Gobzem said in the Commission on Budget and Finance (Tax) - why is additional funding needed? Something like that. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission did not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U123	We launched a debate on the proposal. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U124	All right, dear people! So the Ministry of Justice also has an extra number of millions of them once again, but the most interesting position, if we carefully read what is then allocated to the Ministry of Justice in addition, is the organisation of the Three-Sea Initiative Summit in 2022 - EUR 532 500. Those people who have followed the work of the Saeima, yesterday's debate, the conclusion of the debate, in which I am talking about Levit, the Flemish and the funds requested by the President's Chancellery, today's funds requested by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs... The Ministry of Justice is already the third ministry, in fact the institution of a third country, which requires half a million for the same event. Three-sea initiative summit. So the President's Chancellery somewhere at 400 thousand, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs somewhere over half a million and the Ministry of Justice also half a million - a total of one million and 400 thousand are stable in this request. That'll be a great party! I think that there will be both black caviar and a good champagne from abroad, because these fine gentlemen, of course, are not enough with the existing one. But what benefits for Latvia from such a expensive event - Three-Sea Initiative Summit? Adriatic, Black and Baltic. What do we get? What's the preparation? What will be discussed? What, then, is this measure? I'm going to tell you the story - how it really happened, why it is. That three-sea initiative summit came about as we had President Vejonis at the time, and Vejonis was not like Vaira, who traveled around the world all the time. And then it was invented that there was a need for an event in which some foreign representatives would be invited to show on TV to have a good PR. And made such a three-sea initiative summit. In the end, the summit was even relatively... the meeting was relatively good, but the media did not particularly reflect the event. And in the end, there was wasted money out. It was a media event. Now it is kept in the budget, so that several ministries (Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Justice), the Presidential Chancellery would demand additional funding for one and the same event of hundreds of thousands, in total almost one-and-a-half million! In fact, one party! To you, dear people, busy... at the expense of you, the taxpayer. That is, the state will borrow so that your children and grandchildren will have to repay the fact that there will be one party of one and a half million. I would therefore ask you not, as Mr Bondar said, to pass on this amount to cover budgetary expenditure, to put it more precisely, to reduce public debt. And don't make a bigger country's external debt. Please support me. I know I will vote against, as usual - 49, 50, 51, 52, 53... somewhere within those limits, I can already predict what the vote will be because... You must also understand - Saeima, dear people, don't decide anything. All that happens here is just a theatre. Everything's been decided for a long time. The family is a completely redundant institution. Everything has been decided, I can even say to you how they will be roughly divided. All the opposition proposals, however constructive and logical, and rightly - they will not be supported. Yesterday, they voted for the grande, so they voted in the second reading in the budget. The horizon is in the state budget documents, even though you are told that it is not. And there will be the Three Seas Initiative Summit for one and a half million at your expense, my follower. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U125	The debate is closed. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U126	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that the Commission did not support the 24th proposal. And, colleagues, I call on you to decide accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U127	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 24. - Member Alda Gobzema's proposal! Please vote mode! Not for - 15, not for - 50, not for - 50, not for - no. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U128	25. - Member Gobzem's proposal. From VARAM... the deficit reduction programme. How did Mr Gobzem say to the Commission on Budgets and Finance (Tax) - has there been an environmental disaster? But the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission did not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U129	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U130	So let's keep it. Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. I asked the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission where the relevant funds will then be spent. And what am I reading here? 2.5 million, more precisely, two million 550 thousand - for strengthening the capacity of the VARAM restaurant. Dear people, as you read, "capacity building", it is quite clear that in a ministry where the most important thing is... a very interesting ministry, by the way. VARAM is a ministry with a minister, but Pūce is the main minister, but Jaunupas is the main minister if. That's the hierarchy in that ministry. The Minister is only some third or fourth person who is responsible for how things are going on there. But strengthening the capacity of the VARAM restaurant means wages. Let's get the wages up again! They're too little, they need more. Lokdauns at the end of the day, difficult time, to sit at home in underpants, is a great load - to pay more. This is one of the fundamental issues I have seen here. Next, if we look further. There was a project that was high... high investment projects for some sort of rice. Three. And right away, the question arose, which are those three happy. What are these projects? Some hugely important projects, there were also some millions of people in need. When I asked the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission these questions, I was also unable to answer what they were for the projects. Some house warmer, something like that. That was the approximate answer. Although we certainly cannot understand the insulation of houses and things like this with high investment projects. You know, the whole philosophy that's in public administration and in general, for the last 30 years is like that, yes, we borrowed money, we'll just waste it. Whatever, huh? It is very popular to talk about how we will now spend on busy money. Let's just borrow to raise your wages if. How do we get back? It doesn't matter! It is about this budget. This proposal will also be rejected. Some 49 to 53 votes will vote against. In the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, the eight MEPs also voted 'no' all the time. So that this voting machine goes beyond everything, the budget will be approved in this way. Dear people, you understand - you follow the work of the Saeima, that is, an institution that does not decide anything. What is either a piece of paper for what has been decided elsewhere - in different councils or in a sauna near Raivy Dzintara in Sigulda, where you make, by the way, some decisions from time to time, and in such a spirit. This is what happens in Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U131	The debate is closed. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U132	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to call on you to decide and to say that the 25th proposal was not supported by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U133	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 25. - Member Alda Gobzema's proposal! Please vote mode! -13, against -54, refrains - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U134	26. - Also Alda Gobzem's proposal. Related to the transfer of funds from the State Audit Office to the discharge of the deficit, and this is due to the fact that Mr Gobzem mentioned in the Commission that the State Audit Office, when these billions were spent in the country, was silent. And so he calls for this kind of proposal to be supported. In the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, however, this proposal was not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U135	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U136	Yes, Mr Bondara so rightly reported that in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission I made clear and precise: the State Audit Office has not actually done anything in these two years. We've seen excessive spending, money theft, theft, the bonuses for ourselves, the wages that's not there yet. And where is our State Audit Office? We have a national controller who is linked to the Unity. And that's why it's quiet. And what I'm reading, so the State Audit Office for Capacity Building... public sector audit. Capacity building... What do you mean they're going to accept new people? 410 thousand, if. Will we pay more wages? Would it be better for the audit to be carried out if the Auditor General had a higher salary? What is it? Is there not enough people in the public sector? I think that the State Audit Office, as it once had these last two years - the time to prove that it is capable of doing something, but not. In fact, it was clear at the time when the new National Ombudsman was approved - it was clear that it was approved to cover this power in order to cover up the way billions were removed. I will give you an example. This was to be discussed by the State Audit Office, not by Gobzem, a Member. And that's an example: we've spent two years on 500 million patients in the Comma - it's the Comma! - a treatment. He's spent 500 million on paper. Estonia is about 500 million going to build a supermodern mega-hospital. We just got them out somewhere, there's no 500 million, that's it. Doctors are crying for us, staff are not enough, in hospitals nothing... is some hundred or how many beds are made at the end of 500 million. Where are those 500 million? It should have been discussed with the State Audit Office. We're getting people laid off, pilots... the only ones with clowns because we are not coping with the community's sufferers at a time when we have spent 500 million on this topic... or, to be sure, we have stolen them. Should the members of the opposition then fulfil the task of the State Audit Office? I do not need 410 thousand to strengthen my capacity so that I can see in budgetary paper how to spend money in the country - where stealing, where stealing, where there are absolutely strange purchases, where there are disproportionate spending. That doesn't need something in there... either I don't know, education in space science, or else I don't know. It's so obvious, though. Those figures are so striking and so obvious that even a person without any understanding in accounting sees power stealing money in Latvia. And it's covered, actually covered by the State Audit Office, and then what do they demand? You're getting higher wages. About what? To strengthen capacity. That's it... why it is impossible to write in a human language - raising wages, not strengthening capacity. And it hides those salaries, bonuses, wages... Please support my proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U137	The debate is closed. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U138	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that the 26th proposal was not supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U139	Please call me! To be put to the vote on 26. - Member Alda Gobzema's proposal! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U140	27, on the other hand. - the proposal of Member Gobzems, who is not about the State Audit Office, but about the Constitutional Court. Directing funds in the same way as the previous proposal - towards covering the deficit... cover, yeah. The rapporteur said in the budget debate that perhaps it is worth thinking at all about the liquidation of the Constitutional Court. This proposal was not supported by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U141	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U142	I am even surprised that Mr Bondara has listened so carefully to my speech in the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) but voted 'no' all the time. He could have voted in favour, at least in the interests of the people. Talking about the Constitutional Court - therefore, 254 712 euros are needed. I read who then needs extra. Strengthening of administrative capacity of the Constitutional Court. Administrative capacity - what does that mean? Are they again additional jobs or add to the salary? That's the number one. For the safety of operation of the building of the Constitutional Court there is some money. And then to mark 100 years of adoption of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia. Its amount for 100 years was also on the Presidential Chancellery paper, which was voted on yesterday evening at the budget. At the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) I told you that I would also like to participate (as I now have a QR code) in the party, where I will spend some half a million - 300 or 400, or 500 thousand - in honour of the Constitutional Court for 100 years, together with all the ministries, if added together. It's probably where they're gonna split black eggs too. And then applied to the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) to speak with a representative of the Constitutional Court, who said that it was not for the party that a plenary was planned for summer - something in paintings. I am sorry, the Constitutional Court deals with adjudication of court, handling constitutional complaints, not painting in summer, where it will spend 20,000 for the party. It's absolutely clear that party. The trip somewhere to the guest house of Latvia, where there will be such a ravine, something like that, now and at times in paintings. It's about to look like that. Dear Sanita Osipova (I did not want to use the word “lovers”), President of the Constitutional Court Sanita Osipova, where are you? In Latvia... all the world's media talk about the fact that democracy is over in Latvia, Members are not released in the Saeima, People's elected Members are not released in the Saeima. Where are you, Mrs Osipova? I understand that those Members are not gay, but where are you? You are, after all, the great defender of human rights, the defender of the interests of the people! Somehow I haven't noticed you in recent weeks when you joined in for human rights in Latvia. People - hundreds, thousands - are laid off. Where are you, Sanita Osipova? You're making a party, are you making a schedule? You see, in such a small country as Latvia, an institution as expensive as the Constitutional Court is, in fact, pointless. And it should be eliminated. It has developed into an institution that has such a feed for its own, their own... Well, actually it's... If honestly, I have also graduated from the Faculty of Law of the University of Latvia... but, in principle, it has become its own... a part of such settlements from the Faculty of Law. The functions of the Constitutional Court in a small state can be performed by the Supreme Court. It is cheaper, and in reality it is much safer, because it is absolutely clear that in the present composition the Constitutional Court does not care about compliance with the Satversme in Latvia. It translates what is not written there. Number one. Exercising any competence, and when we need to translate... In fact, we do not even need to translate, we need to read Article 1 of the Satversme, which states that Latvia is a democratic republic, and Article 5, which states that the Saeima consists of 100 members of the Saeima, who, by the way, are elected by the people. Sanita Osipova, as President of the Constitutional Court, had to stick to all these purchased meinstrime media. Everything had to be admitted to the fact that there is no democratic process here, that there is a totalitarian regime here, that the Members, the Presidents elected by the people, are not even prevented from working here, but nothing... But there's nothing. And there will be extra spending at the expense of the busy money. Your grandchildren, dear people, will repay it so that you can have a party in honor of 100 years. We're going to be celebrating all the centenary celebrations in the next 25 years, and we're going to make plows, and we're going to borrow it again for a regular party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U143	The debate is closed. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U144	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that the 27th proposal did not support the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U145	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 27. - Member Alda Gobzema's proposal! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U146	28. - also the proposal from Member Gobzem. This concerns the functioning of the Public Electronic Media Council. And these funds, Mr Gobzem, are also calling for the deficit to be covered. At the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, he said that this money was for the village to hold a coalition, so to say. The budget and financial (tax) commission listened to Mr Gobzem, but the 28th proposal was not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U147	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U148	Dear people, we were listening. So, the public electronic media. There are two million in 2022, 2.6 million in 2023, almost two million in 2024. I read to whom it is - strengthening the Latvian Radio Capacity, strengthening the Latvian Television Capacity, the Public Electronic Media Council and in such a way. And now we're listening to why that money is being given. So it's power media. Have you heard the Latvian Radio opposition? They do not know the Latvian word - opposition. There is praised power from morning to night. Listen to all the monks, all these stacks that are there - there's just a power point of view. The opposition is not interviewed at all. On Latvian television, I had a situation where I had a protest against power at the Saeima. And there was live television from Latvia. As the organiser of this protest, I was not interviewed, because I cannot be shown on Latvian Television. There's only power in all broadcasts too, you look, there's principle... And from the opposition... there, the fecto opposition, which is the opposition to the system, which shall vote on all the votes of the power. We also have in the Saeima, by the way, the opposition to the system, which is actually a position and is not a real opposition. The third thing. It's for the neighbor. The neighbor had that voice of gold all the time. And then he was given it all. And now he can sit calmly and not take care of the interests of the people, as he says, but, as he says, take more care of his material, emotional and other welfare. In one word, that's... I think they're... and another example. So today... As an example, I would say that power distributes money to the media. It's very dangerous. So we have the big media of the meinstrime, like Delfi, TVNET, which belongs to pharmaceutical oligarchs, and so on. Today “Delfos” was an interview with the President of Latvia – no critical question at all. We have an internal political crisis, we have a foreign policy crisis, we have problems at the border - no critical issue at all, a completely green interview. This is because there is therefore an opposition in principle. Look at what our media are doing. Our media are attacking the opposition. They don't attack power. They are gentle, obscene to power because power gives money. And very hard against the opposition, in the llamas, in the fist... Gobzem is at all the worst evil in all the meinstrses. All those who pay power, all the Delphis, TVNET, Latvian Radio and so on - all Gobzems have total evil because of the opposition. But the position that gives money to the media is good. It's nothing that the position has stolen half of the country if. It's nothing that people strictly drive away from Latvia. It's okay that most people live in poverty here. It's okay to spend 500 million patients in the community, but actually don't spend 500 million patients in the community, but steal. Don't talk about it! It's okay that we have seven billion borrowed money in these two years. Are you reading the media somewhere? Is there an alarm call from morning to night? No, no! Now it was calm last week, you see that the message appeared in the public media, where the secret government negotiations that came out publicly, where Rinkēvičs called the President of Belarus an donkey, and Karin said that if we don't agree now, Levit would consider us as donkeys and so on. Look at the response of the media, the media of the meinstrum, that gets from power, PR. In the 10s and 11s of the morning, everything had already been cleaned up, so that that's quickly all that... not been raised and continued... and how such negotiations can be held in government. In fact, such negotiations were supposed to have led to a fall in government... This shows the main reasons why the government did not act. It was quickly taken away to keep the silence - the chuk-chuck-chuck - all there is, because the budget, how many millions of entie there, goes. That's how it works, dear people. No one talks openly about this. There is only one member of the opposition, Gobzem, who is not afraid to speak openly about this. This is what happens in Latvia. In Latvia, they simply brutally buy all those journalists. And you don't have to pretend it isn't. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U149	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U150	Hello, honourable Members! Hello, the audience of the budget sittings, the audience! If my name is already mentioned on this proposal, I would have to tell you that the previous speaker, the liar in this case, can stand a bit on the wheels. Colleagues, the 28th proposal is a budgetary issue for the Public Electronic Media Council. I must say honestly that the Council is new, and we cannot really be proud of what it has done. On the other hand, in the budget, we are correcting last year's error that there were unforeseen cases of funds that needed to be set up this board, which is not just three people... with its remuneration, but it is the whole office, the secretariat, the rental of premises and so on, which shall also make up this amount. Here I hear that Aldi says it's money for me... Well, then Aldi has to go to KNAB again is urgent! These are lies, and now, while I also listen to previous proposals from Member Alda that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should be shouting hard, Latvian Television, Latvian Radio, media are not needed, it should be knocking hard, the Constitutional Court should be shouting hard, we do not need roads in Latvia, we do not need any money at all, there is no need to give money... And if we count it, then Member Aldis is, in my opinion, he has run billions - billions! - three of these proposals. Three billion. Member Aldi doesn't need all this. Member Aldis only extorts what sounds most dreadful and where a very small part of the truth is what Member Aldis says in this debate. I do not want to open the debate on these issues, which is what the SEPLP must do, it was another sitting of the Saeima. The SEPLP must, first of all, combine the two media, both Latvian Television and Latvian Radio. On the other hand, Mr Aldis will certainly help with his debate. And the SEPLP must ensure the creation of this public media, both by the main editor and by the head of the Latvian Television... Boards, so to speak, elections. And it's now that it's been a hundred days since the SEPLP started to work. Next week, if we go at a slightly faster pace, the Commission will also listen to the relevant members of the SEPLP, and not as rosary as I would like in this case, but certainly the sittings will be open, and, Members, be welcome, journalists, including. Well, this is about this 28th proposal, where Member Aldis wants to put an end to the SEPLP. We went on to set up this board for 20 years, we were unable to do so for 20 years, and now the shareholder, the public media shareholder, is separated from the regulator, that is to say, from the SEPLP vision, and the regulator is the NEPLP, the National Electronic Media Council. Consequently, these functions are not duplicated and there is no conflict of interest. I absolutely say that this proposal must be rejected. And then let's continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U151	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U152	Now Member Kaimiņš certainly has the memory capacity of a golden fish, because I remember, for example, that in 2018, Member Kaimiņš traveled all over Latvia and told people that Latvia is Soviet Latvia that there are so many Soviets and so many redundant Soviets and councils should be reduced, and the council at the end of the council and in such a spirit and powdered the brains of people from morning to evening. And then he gets to his gold voice in the support band of Unity and creates - what? New advice, because in the end he likes that there are more councils, because then... In Latvia, how many do we have, two televisions or one television? So... That “delfi” and TVNET, I think there they are all together if. And then there's Latvian Radio, Latvian Television, which is as though separate, but in reality, it's all there's been, it's been possible to combine them a long time ago, so it's been possible to make them on private television - to put them all together in one house, not all of them have been laid out there in a half city, it would be much cheaper, it's better. But the Councils for us to monitor the media on one hand's fingers, I'm sorry... We have some SEPLP, then there's a NEPLP, then there's something else, then there's a Neighbourhood Commission, and maybe there's some council... and all need to hold 500 thousand, 600 thousand and in such a spirit. Why? Therefore, in order to control all this event and to control the power in the media, to tell Latvia on TV and radio how good the village is, how good “Unity” is, how bad the opposition is, what the threat to Latvia is. That's the main reason, there's no other reason, dear people to powder you brain. We do not need to consult the council, we have so little country, why we need 17 councils on one issue, where there are three television channels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U153	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U154	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, particularly Mr. Neighbours, who spoke to this debate! I would like to draw the attention of all Members to one thing if we are talking about this SEPLP. And we also voted, and I think there really is... in this board, there are, in my opinion, honest people. And there are things that need to be addressed. If we are talking about strengthening this Council next year, then here is one thing about public media. If we look at public media, there is a fundamental change. Thus, public media no longer operate in the advertising market. Public media... then a comprehensive view of public media needs to be reflected. If we are talking about political issues... So, as Mr. Gobzem mentioned, he was described by a problem situation... but we cannot already talk about one situation in Gobzem, we need to talk about the situation in general, as it is now in our public media. That is why we, as the Union of Greens/farmers, have carried out a small analysis of this issue, and it is worth looking at the results of this analysis. And those analysis results, in my opinion, are quite glamorous. If we look at discussion programmes or programmes where politicians are given the opportunity to express their views, then if we look at private media (random), private media TV24... most of my colleagues in this media have been, I have been, and I have had the opportunity to express my opinion... the balance between the politicians of the opposition and the coalition is about halfway through, a little in favour of a coalition that is natural, 50, a bit over - a coalition, 40 - the opposition, without distinguishing between what political forces - whether it is “Unity” or the Neighbours... no matter who's been there, but that's the coalition, the opposition. And it is clear to the public, in my opinion, that it gives us some normal, transparent opinion in normal democracy. It is in private media where, among other things, if there is some great, special wish, politicians can also go to buy advertising for money. In the public media, it is no longer possible for money at the moment, it is only a public medium, therefore particular attention should be paid to it. Our data shows that in public media programmes such as "Mortumon Panorama" (is such a programme) politicians' opinion... Colleagues, do you think this proportion is divided? If this ratio divided into six versus four, it would be okay. In the present situation, this ratio is 88 percent coalition, 12 - opposition, without distinction of whether it is... Which party, no matter what, sir, ZZS... Gobzem, no matter. opposition - 12, coalition - 88. At the moment, the independent media reflects the political process of expressing opinions. Such an analysis interested us, and we also carried out further by looking, for example, at the discussion program Cross Point. Latvian Radio is, many know, everyone has been, and I have also been to this programme. There, this proportion is even smaller. There, this proportion - the opposition's opinion in this programme is reflected below 10 percent. Mostly - just! - coalition. This is an analysis of this situation that we, as the Union of Greens/Farmers, have carried out. And I think that this new Council should pay particular attention to this issue, because in the circumstances of this balance... public media... So to say, advertising cannot be bought by either coalition or opposition... Thus, public media must be particularly objective, reflecting political processes, including in various discussion programmes. I would say that, to a large extent, this is happening objectively, but there are some places where this data is simply shouting and requires some clarification, requires some kind of management analysis on how it is, regardless of who is in power, who is in coalition or who is in opposition. This is not normal at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U155	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Mr. Zarins, we don't hear you; we see, but we don't hear you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U156	I hope we hear now.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U157	That's wonderful.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U158	Indeed, a high-quality media monitoring process is very important in a democratic country. And that the media really serve public interests, not political orders. I'd like to share with such an interesting study that I used to... A couple of years ago, Jale University professor Milan Svolik performed on how democracy is being degraded today. He took over a period of more than 40 years and analysed about 200 such cases in this period. And there were interesting features, interesting relationships that he found, how democracy is degraded. One significant feature was that after the Cold War, every four of the five cases of democratic degradation took place in a democratic way. So it is not an external evil power or a military coup, but it has happened in a way that democratic forces have come to power with democratic instruments to bring about the degradation of power and the degradation of democracy. And all the common feature of why it was possible to do it... There were two very important things: one was that the political forces were specialising in polarising the public on a matter (do you not have any association with our country?) , and the other thing, that the media are occupied in such a way that they start to work, not to objectively reflect the reality, to serve the interests of society, to form a platform where opinions can be analysed, to understand what is actually happening, not to cut off the possibility of opposition in these media to express their opinions... And, as far as possible, to promote the narratives required for power. Do we not see here a very direct relationship with what is happening in Latvia? And the result we are seeing at the moment is also very tangible. In my opinion, Latvia could be another visible example of the degradation of democracy, the destruction of democracy in the country. Another remarkable example. And that's why we have this mechanism - quality monitoring, media monitoring. Monitoring, which is not supervision, to monitor that the media is doing what is necessary for power, but to do the functions that are really necessary for it, very important functions for Latvian society or democracy, namely, to have this diversity of opinion; it would be very important. Unfortunately, what we see, as Mr Valaiņš rightly said, when we are talking about television - there is only one medium that is trying to balance a lot, or to express a wide range of opinions, on which all the criticisms and criticisms are based - how it can afford to express this diversity of opinion, there must be only the right views. Speaking about those right points of view, it is very interesting. I accept that I am convinced that, with regard to the OIC, I know more than all the other politicians, taken together, but I have never been invited to debate public media on these issues. Never! At the same time, the ministers for the economy have spoken in the past. And told all kinds of foolishness, and never had been given the opportunity to express alternative opinions, to reasonably prove or at least to provoke a debate on what is actually happening. I have called on it, I have offered it, I have been prepared alone against any army of officials and politicians to go and debate. Such a debate has been avoided. And that... we are talking here about media objective work in the public interest... it is simply one remarkable example. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call on us not to underestimate the importance of a high-quality media monitoring process which, unfortunately, is not being implemented. A high-quality media monitoring process is currently being implemented in the interests of power to force the media to work in the interests of power. This is unfortunately what is happening. The result - it is known. And it has already been proven by the ancient cases of world history. We are now on the road with a very dramatic and grim ending for our society and for our country, if we continue. I invite you to think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U159	The name to Member Artus Neimins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U160	Yes, it is very good that we have now updated this subject, even in the context of this budget. The proposal is therefore to withdraw the annual funding allocated to the SEPLP for all three years in principle. Mr Valaiņš, I have to agree with your criticism. I think that is true. I would be very happy to meet you if I had that opportunity, of course. I don't know what the position is in your party, because maybe you don't have to do another study on some huge money, maybe you could share with this study that you said. And the percentage distribution is true if it's true... Why should you be in this place? You're not like each other already, aren't you? Then 88 to 12... these percentages - they are screaming figures and they can't be. Every year, of course, the way in which the opposition is allowed to speak against the position, namely that the opposition is always in a minority, but this is too bad... those digits are drastic. Dear colleagues, the dry balance is that currently, Latvian Television, my view is that, drifting in such a free flight, I don't know, swimming... In space, because there is no real one who can regulate them like that. SEPLP cannot regulate anything, they are prohibited by law, Members cannot regulate anything, cannot enter this editorial independence. And that is why we need the Ombudsman as soon as possible, Mr. Valaiņš. And it has to elect this Ombudsman for the SEPLP. Then it will be possible for the Ombudsman to write complaints that there and there it was. There's no one to write right now. And the SEPLP presupposes itself as the leader of the people, not as the holder of the shares in the public media.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U161	Mr. Neighbours, time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U162	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U163	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U164	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Dear colleagues, I was interested in the statement made by my colleague Viktoras Valaiņš that Latvian Television and Latvian Radio are calculated by the Group of the Greens/Farmers Union... So 88 percent of the transmission time, in which, as far as I understand, some politicians participate... reflects a politician, has about 88 percent in favour of a ruling coalition, and only during the rest of the transmission somehow reflects the work of opposition politicians. I do not want to make any statements or statements here about what this proportion should be. Should it be 50 for 50 or two thirds for a third. In my opinion, it is relatively logical if the public media nevertheless favours something, first of all it reflects, of course, the views of the existing government - whether it likes or not - but it is democratically elected - but then it also reflects the opinion of the opposition. But 88 percent, that sounds like... I, of course, agree with Mr. Neighbouring here - it sounds rather extreme. We can, of course, raise such questions or ask questions... If, for example, the next year's elections are followed by a change of power... Well, let's think! For example, the next Prime Minister will be Mr Gobzem, who has tabled this proposal, and the same public television and Latvian Radio journalists will send Mr Gobzem and his colleagues to 88 percent. Well, that's the idea. However, does their choice of what and how to show them reflect some much deeper understanding of what is or is not the right thing? I do not want to raise such issues, they are too complicated, but what I believe I should do, and I think the head of the relevant commission, Mr. Kaimina, could certainly achieve this perhaps before the elections... If you have already made such statements, one percent of the transmission time is devoted to the more ruling coalition, opposition, or how. I think public media – both LTV and Latvian Radio – could be as minimal as possible, so to say, simply make your calculation and publish it so that we can at least see what the facts are. How often the views of the ruling coalition are reflected and how often or rarely those of the opposition Members are reflected. Without any, so to say, judgments on whether it is correct or not, but simply facts. Perhaps I think it is even very likely that such statistics should be published by the public media on a regular basis, without any reflection on what is right or wrong. It is simply true that, as a percentage, it is devoted to the Members of the Coalition, as a percentage, to the Members of the opposition. Let the company draw its own conclusions on the basis of these statistics, which take place or do not happen in Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U165	Colleagues! Let us continue the debate, but I call for a debate on 28. - the proposal tabled by Member Alda Gobzema, not the opinions expressed by other Members in the debate. So, please, I call for a debate on the proposal in question. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U166	Dear President, I have just been going to say this straight away and remind you that this proposal is about funding the Public Electronic Media Council. When the Law on Public Electronic Media and their Governance was adopted, the Saeima assigned 13 functions to the Council. Yeah, it's 13 functions. And this law was voted by both the positions and the opposition, and if we take away all this funding, no 13 functions will be performed, so the law adopted by the Saeima, the common law, will be torpedoed. I therefore call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U167	The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U168	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, Well, it is very good that Member Aldis Gobzems has now launched a debate on this issue. Whether it is at the place or not, it is difficult to say this because we adopted the last tax reform, for example, at the time of the adoption of the budget, many other issues, such as the increase in the remuneration of officials and the increase in the remuneration of elected officials, are also adopted at the time of the adoption of the budget, and this is a bad legislative practice, because we are debating these issues only in two readings in an urgent manner, and very often the deadline for tabling proposals is not the day but the minutes. This proposal talks about the matter of SEPLP, and in this context, I would like to say two things. First of all, the NEPLP is also a council with additional functions and already exists. Another public case, the creation of the solver of the issue was a mistake, because these issues, which are now up to date, could simply be dealt with by the same Council, which was already established by extending its functions, possibly by adding additional funding, which we could debate here during the budget. That's one. The second point, if we look back at the creation of the Ombudsman, which was raised by Member Artus K. In this case, this is a completely absurd idea because we already have the Ombudsman - the so-called Ombudsman. The Ombudsman... often we hear... Many issues relating to well-being, children's rights, possibly issues relating to persons with disabilities and so on. But this law, which concerns the Ombudsman, sets out another additional function for him: to ensure the principle of good governance. If we extended our functions to the Ombudsman and determined that it would also have the right to deal with media issues, then it would only be because of the economy of resources and the economy of resources. The proposal now put forward by Members is radical, in the context of the proposal that I have already mentioned, which contained in this draft law, proposal 5. We were talking about moving towards a deficit-free budget. Well, when you can still move on to the budget without a deficit, if not by starting a debate on where that money goes all the time. I believe that this is a very good moment for such a discussion to come up with. And more. In this case, there are indeed a number of Members who are involved in the sector, who are also parliamentary secretaries at the same time. That is very right. These discussions, as we once did in the Saeima, must also be held. It is a pity that other parliamentary secretaries are not present, especially when it comes to matters of the Ministry of Agriculture. There is now an outstanding young specialist, a parliamentary secretary, who is probably not a political market, but a very high level of ability, as he once got there. They could at least have spoken on these issues. But with regard to the proposal, I think the discussion is very correct, very important, very much in place. And so we are talking now, as once, about both the need and the allocation or transfer of funds, if this Council is unable to work in sufficient quality. Regarding the fundamental principle of a democratic state. The right to speak is open to all of us, and especially to Members, who, in this case, have been elected by the people so as to be able to express their position. In public media, national, none of the opposition's rights are those of a position... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U169	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U170	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Now this is not a new issue. Of course, if the Saeima has already decided to set up a new body - SEPLP - we have elected members of SEPLP, then it is natural that funding should also be provided. On the one hand, it is normal, it should be, but to be honest, I am rather sceptical about the perspective. I would like to remind you that, already this summer, we made a decision, as a matter of urgency, to significantly increase the salaries of the members of the SEPLP that was then born, and now and at the same time we also significantly raise the salary for that old council - the NEPLP. Has it changed? I do not want to go into the details, but those colleagues in the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs know very well that there are quite serious problems already. Public media belong to society as a whole. And it is a statutory task - to reflect the views of all groups of society - obviously also including political parties, because public media are not government media or... opinions of the coalition. How can we achieve this goal, and how can we ensure that these media really are public media, not government media? All democratic countries are trying to address this issue and there is some experience, for example, the BBC is quite often mentioned and, of course, some accounting, some data is needed. I have already accumulated over the years a whole series of answers from the NEPLP, from the television itself to this very simple question - how exactly are you monitoring this most important rule of law in order to ensure the diversity of opinion in the public media, which is maintained for all taxpayers' money? And, of course, I have a very short time to present its answers, but the content does not change. And all the answers say: either, no, it cannot approach it arithmetically; it is not too good, even though, of course, the data are, simply they are not published, they are not known to us or to the general public. The only exception is the programme “What’s going on in Latvia?” . I've been talking about this before from the Saeima. If you now visit that KNL website, you will find full statistics, full records of all years - who participated in any program, there is every day, the party's membership is also indicated. And so you can see very clearly how objective Dombur was and how often he called on the representatives of either party. But this is the only exception, although, of course, these data were collected before they left the advertising market and they are necessary, they are needed by advertisers. Of course, this is a commercial secret, and they are not published, but given the specific nature of the public media, I think that this data should still be available to the general public. So those colleagues - Mr Dombrovskis and so on - who point out that public media should do so, they do it, but they simply do not show us. Therefore, to overturn some of the statistics quoted by Mr. Valaiņš, it is simply impossible because... Indeed, to be honest, I have little hope that, with the start of the new Council, the situation will change dramatically. That's why it's not about money, it's... Among the 13 specific tasks that Mr Janson spoke about, unfortunately, that is the most important issue - to ensure that the media actually fulfil the role of public media - is not mentioned precisely. So that hardly with money alone, with wage increases, we will be able to solve this very important democratic problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U171	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U172	Thank you. Dear President, Firstly, I would like to say that everything that has been said today in connection with this proposal - all I underlined! - relates to the substance of the proposal, because if we are talking about the budget debate, the issue of the budget debate is not to give or not to give, allocate or allocate the amount in question, but there are at least three issues. The first question: Is there a useful function for which this money is intended? Second: the necessary funding - whether or not to give? And only the third is the amount of funding needed. That is first. Secondly. It seems to me that, early or late, we will end up having to change the procedure for reviewing budgetary laws - as one of the previous speakers has also said. It is not possible to combine the answers to all these three questions at one reading on the substance. And thirdly. If you look at who forms the composition of the SEPL Council, then it also depends on what policies this SEPLP will pursue. I do not think that we should be creating another institution, a specialised Ombudsman or another, because it is once again a bureaucratic method that requires additional funds and so on and so on. I think that this question is mature, because the role of public media has increased, especially in the new circumstances, when they have lost their sources of revenue and should, as if, increase the role of society's integrator, which unfortunately does not happen. Unfortunately, this is what several speakers have said today. It is therefore a problem that needs to be addressed. And to be dealt with, naturally, not only in budget readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U173	The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U174	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Colleagues! I understand that none of the people in the current position is really prepared to talk about the creation of this council or, if you can say so, about the ideal father of this council. And the ideal father just passionately presented and justified why this one was very needed. While still in coalition queues, Artuss Kaimiņš is reassuring this project, even in violation of all procedures, decision-making progress and the whole procedure. Specifically, the same was imposed on other colleagues so that they agreed to change this remuneration system, because, in his view, no one was at such a funny wage as the people of the NEPLP did before... no normal, thoughtful person will come here. That is why these two - NEPLP and SEPLP - also fall out of the system of civil servants' remuneration. And with his insistence and the voice of gold it was achieved by Artuss Neimins. I would perhaps not have spoken on this subject if the SEPLP actually performed the functions that it is charged with. And specifically. There are countless programmes, both on commercial television and in public media, where in various joints, in different compositions... Also Domburs' show, which has just begun... in all ways, try to talk about, talk about the fate of the party and the party for the party that I represent at the moment. Thus, it appears that an order has been made specifically in different formats to try to humiliate our party members by distributing information in every way that does not correspond to the truth. No one or any of these programme leaders or producers (called what we wanted to call) even allowed me to call and ask my opinion, or where to invite the perpetrators or perpetrators of these celebrations themselves to the programme. That is why I believe that this board, which was set up, is Artus Neiminis's " pocket formation". And this is his bonus point to try to get into the next Saeima. I call for support for this proposal by Alda Gobzem, because I believe that this formation is not necessary for the media environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U175	I closed the debate. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U176	On behalf of the Commission, colleagues, I would like to remind you that the 28th proposal was not supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U177	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 28. - Member Alda Gobzema's proposal! Please vote mode! -17, against -54, refrains - not. The proposal is not supported. Dear Members, Honourable Members! I would like to inform you that the Saeima Bureau has received a request from Members Latkovska, Juša, Bondara, Janson, Asheraden, Puces, Shadurska, Chakša, Zakatistova and Zakatistova and Zalos-Gros to set the period of debate two minutes for the first time and one minute for the second time during the extraordinary session of the Saeima on 15 November 2021. The Saeima must decide on this by voting. Please set the "On Procedure" mode. Mr Feldman, do you want to talk about it?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U178	Hello, dear colleagues! Yeah, we're on the third day... coming to the afternoon of the third day, when we look at this country's budget, and traditionally, as has been the case every year, when there is a slight increase in the number of manipulations, perhaps even during the debate false statements are being made and so on, even though there are coalition Members who are trying to express factual, evidence-based or statistical information in the debate, this is not being heard for any reason. And, given that there too is a self-foreseeing performance and a delay in time towards the eve of the national holiday, I am calling for support for this draft decision, because obviously, like the next year, my hope of a constructive debate has unfortunately not been fulfilled on the basis of statistics, and therefore I am calling for support for this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U179	So one Member can speak "for", one Member can apply to speak "for". Mr Feldman spoke about it. ‘ Against” Member Aldis Gobzems has applied. Please, the name of Member Aldi Gobzem!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U180	Dear people, dear society! You have seen - today, all day long, we have seen my proposals on how to reduce budget expenditure, how... where it is wasted, what happened... So the position is becoming more fearful. They were afraid that they had to hear so much where they were spending simply completely pointless money. They therefore decide - which is the main reason - to reduce the period of debate from five to two minutes so that they do not have to hear Gobzem. Now they cannot really turn off the microphone, because Gobzems talks about specific figures, about specific budget positions, about the Constitutional Court parties, about the business classes of Rinkēvičs and in such a way. That is the main reason. So if they didn't end up pretending to the end... because they already go to it in principle, we already have a totalitarian regime in principle, we have, as they say, compulsory vaccination, no longer admitted Members to the Saeima. After the idea of what to do there, then cut that time off completely, and peace, because the budget is already...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U181	So “for” and “to” can talk for one minute, there is a wrong speaking time - five minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U182	One minute only for and against. ‘ Against, 'no' of course.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U183	You can speak for five minutes against. You can speak, Mr. Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U184	I can still talk, right? That's great! Thank you, Mrs. Lībiņa-Egneres, for giving me this... Last time in this... last five minutes' talk until the festival. Well, in one word, you understand: today morning, as Gobzem began to disclose all of the budget expenditure (in fact he started yesterday evening), which is all the wasteful expenditure, so they understood that the government would fall and they understood that Gobzem could no longer allow it to speak. That is the main and only reason to close Gobzem's mouth so that Gobzem will not participate in the budget debate, so that their actual expropriation of money and everything else will not be reflected, because they understand that if Gobzem speaks to each proposal for five minutes, then Gobzem and allies will actually come to power, and they will have to respond. They will have to answer the law on money laundering, money laundering and everything else. There are no other reasons why it is on the agenda to reduce speaking time. What is embarrassing me at the moment - that allows me to speak without limit, because the parliamentary sitting too no longer shows the timetable, as far as I can still speak, because, as a rule, Members see how much time is left for them to speak. I will therefore call on the Saeima to vote against. It is clear that with 52, 53 or 54 votes in favour, I will vote in favour to silence the opposition and to silence, in principle, the opposition that beats very precisely and very painfully the weak, mercantile grips and the desire, as they say, to live on the taxpayer's expense. But, dear people, that's okay. This power is coming to an end, let them still steal the very last that is, and when they have stolen the very last that is, most likely at the end of this year, at the beginning of next year, this power will fall, flee where anyone can escape. One to America... A American citizen is likely to be on his way. Others will try to hide somewhere on the spot, but nothing will happen, we will find them all, and we will call them to legal responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U185	Colleagues! There has been a technical failure in the tab. Mr Feldman had initially been given one minute, and Mr Feldman was also entitled to speak for five minutes, so I indicated to Mr Gobzem. So everyone had the right to speak for five minutes. So I have to say... such a technical failure... I apologise on behalf of them why such a technical mistake occurred. So one Member can talk about such a proposal for a five-minute term, one Member for a five-minute period. Thank you to both speakers. Both Members have spoken; now the decision must be taken by voting. Please vote mode! So let us vote in favour of the time of the debate - two minutes for the first time and one minute for the second time! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The debate time has been shortened. So in the future, speakers can speak for two minutes for the first time and one minute for the second time in the debate on the proposals. Mr Bondara, you have the floor on your next proposal on behalf of the Commission. Proposal No 29
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U186	Thank you. Proposal 29 is very similar to proposal 28. This is due to the re-allocation of the radio and television regulator’s funds to the deficit-recovering issues. It has also been tabled by Member Gobzem. And its reasoning in the commission was very similar to that of the previous one. This proposal was not supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U187	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U188	Yes, I am now looking at those proposals. Radio and television regulator. It is also actually distributed to the village so that it can, as it says, buy those media. Commercially strengthening the capacity of electronic media: half a million. Promoting media literacy. What does media literacy mean? This means that people need to understand that when they wash their brains in the interests of power, so that they can distinguish between brainwashing, which is actually happening in all the power paid media from morning to evening - how such sheep wash their brains for what is beneficial to power. But, thank God, that the media, these electronics or anyone, are not the only ones. Then there's another social network, there's another... There are people who also think with their head, who do not need to be explained by Spriek or Latvian Radio Tomsons or Krauze, who explain what is right and what is wrong... who can still think with his own head. And that's it. For example, who shows feika news there, in those media, from morning to night. I think that money has been wasted, especially given that in Latvia... how many televisions at all: Latvian Television, then TV3, then TV24, no more time. Clearly, one hand's fingers count television, but regulators, I don't even know, at the end of the council, there everyone needs salaries, the capacity to strengthen, wage supplements, so and in such a spirit. And then we still need some funds to pay journalists so that they are motivated to write only positively and the power to ask such raw, simple questions. And I like it that today, at last, the Saeima is starting to talk about it. I like the Latvian Radio being illuminated, which in fact does not invite the opposition at all. It's just a power PR mechanism, and that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U189	The debate is closed. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U190	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that the 29th proposal was not supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U191	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 29. - Alda Gobzema's proposal! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U192	Proposal 30 is in fact linked to a demographic measure... directing demographic measures towards deficit-reducing measures. This proposal is also made from Member Gobzem. When it comes to this event, Member Gobzem spoke of Pavlut's dismissal, spoke of money theft... This proposal was not supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U193	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U194	Dear people, this proposal is about giving four million to the debtor. Just like that. For what? Named - demographic events. It cannot be understood either: Debtor for children or all children of Latvia? Where will they spend? No explanation. Who will monitor? No explanation. When you ask questions, there is no explanation at all. Just because the debtor has the position of adviser at Kariņš, and because the National Association is the one that has the most unpopular government ever. Remember, people, the biggest evil in Latvia is the National Association. They want to drive all Latvians out of Latvia because of their corruption. And through the Debtor, they're now demographic events... The number of Latvians is decreasing from the time when there is a National Association in Latvia and all these frying karters. Not only increases, but the number of Latvians decreases, thanks to these face patriots, which are in fact only money thieves through demographic events. Four million will be hit again at your expense, dear people, the taxpayer. He'll take the money to have that craft on the debtor. What has the debtor actually done in three years? How many Latvians have returned to Latvia? Where is the report? None! It's not easy. Probably one or two have arrived. Come on, you know you have to leave again. Full airport in one direction, we have already spoken today. So what else? And that's why they reduced speaking time, because these proposals show how corrupt the regime is criminal - criminal! They are criminals, real criminals, evildoers in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U195	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U196	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Colleagues! Two minutes, that's... In my opinion, it was not yet time for us to come, because I think that much more important proposals are also coming. And I think that the main proposals are still in front of us. But when we talk about these proposals, Mr Alda Gobzem. They are in place, and there is a debate on them. This specific proposal - I cannot support it. In my opinion, demographic measures must find funding, and this is found in the budget: it is only positive. But, on the previous proposal by Alda Gobzem, colleagues, I would like to remind you once again of these statistics, which I said. It is about these politicians' discussions, where politicians can discuss; it is by no means worth... news programmes. News programmes seem to me to represent both Latvian Radio and Latvian Television quite objectively, but what is happening in this programme, which is mentioned as an example at the Cross Point, requires analysis. We only give the facts we're... carried out an analysis, which appears to be the case. And it also requires some reaction. And thank you Mr. Kaimiņš, who has already said that he is really interested in it, and we are also pleased that the work he has done will not go anywhere... Hopefully, it will not be left to be hanging around just like that in the air, but it will lead to some conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U197	The debate is closed. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U198	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that the 30th proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U199	Please call me! We will vote for 30. - Member Alda Gobzema's proposal! Please vote mode! -17, against -53, refrains - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U200	31. - the proposal by Members Jura Pūce, Ainara Latkovska, Jura Jušas and Ilze Indricsone, which is supported by the Commission. During the Commission's debate, this proposal was referred to as Members' quotas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U201	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U202	Very respectful head of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, I thank the rapporteur, Mr Bondara, for reminding everyone that the proposal 31 opens Members' quotas. I have also won in one, so to say, in the covenants where I have been reconciled with my colleague that, as we approach the coalition... so-called parliamentary quotas, the coalition will shorten the time of the debate, which has also taken place, precisely before the quota proposals of the coalition Members, despite the fact that the honourable Members are on the third day of the so-called budget debate. In this budget debate, 99 per cent... only members of the opposition, members of the coalition remain silent, refuse to justify their proposals, including this proposal. Although it has been tabled by the Members of the position, no Member of the position is ready to justify this proposal, which proposes allocating EUR 80 000 to the same Foundation for the Integration of Society. Ladies and gentlemen, EUR 80,000 is enough to recruit for almost one year three nurses. Three nurses. If we were to recruit three nurses, such as at Daugavpils Hospital, for one year, instead of giving money to the Society Integration Fund, this would help save lives for some people. I call for this Member's quota not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U203	It's time for the next break. The debate on proposal 31 will continue after a break. I would like to inform you that the break is 15 minutes, so by noon 15.15. Only registration of the presence of Members. It's been a success. Colleagues, break by 15.15 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U204	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. So we are continuing the debate on proposal 31. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U205	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! First of all, I would like to say a great deal of thanks to Richard Cole, Artus Neimin, Ritvar Janson and especially to Mr Feldman. I think he's definitely getting closer to giving him an honorary article, perhaps he's already earned it. Indeed, I would like to thank these Members from the coalition, who are involved in the debate on the interpretation of the proposals. In this case, colleagues, I call, however, on the authors of the 31st proposal, who are very clear - i.e. Juris Pūce, Ainars Latkovskis, Juris Juris Jušaks and Indricsons - to at least one Saeima sitting to apply and explain to the Members of the Saeima, to all those who follow this sitting, even more about what the Society Integration Fund will do with this money. What is your noble goal? Why should this money be allocated to this fund? Why are they too little with the many millions mentioned by Vjačeslav Dombrovskis during the election year? What exactly happened is why they need this amount so vitally? I remember at the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission... Indeed, thank you to Mrs Indicice - he took and explained, this explanation was quite logical, and it would be only normal if all the other Members also heard why this money was intended for any purpose. In some way, too... I don't know, Mr. Latkovsky or Mr. Jušas... someone could dispel the concerns about whether or not there is this parliamentary quota. The President of the Commission called it, so I do not want to believe that this is the case.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U206	Thank you. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U207	Madam President, Colleagues and colleagues! Read for which money is provided in this parliamentary quota (Pūce, Latkovsky, Jušas and Indriksone): voluntary methodical materials development, voluntary training and also promotional activities. I understand that the manager of the fund is mainly teaching education and that it is related to teaching Latvian language, including minorities, but not so much, under the leadership of the SIF at the moment, methodological materials should be created, given that voluntary work is, however, an individual's desire... the individual desire of each person to do this free job from a free mind. Indeed, even volunteering will have to follow methodological guidance, methodological advice based on methodological material, and training is still needed to be voluntary and volunteer! Quota grantors Pūce, Latkovsky, Jušas and Indriksone - Members - but get away, this is voluntary work! It would have been better to support a working group of MEPs, which forms part of the Law on Volunteering, where it would be at least clear how meaningful state aid volunteering is, given that health... We don't have enough people at the moment and we don't have one doctor's assistant to pay out... for these 80 thousand euros would give 16 doctors’ assistants at the University of Latvia Medical College, for whom Mr. Pavļuta did not find money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U208	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U209	Colleagues! The implementation of democracy, so to speak, is progressing. From the beginning, the speaking time for the opposition has been reduced before, of course, the members of the opposition do not participate in and have no access to information about the budget, the discussion of priorities, the discussions between the government and the cooperation partners, and now, by reducing the time for the debate, we are also prevented from discussing the proposals or asking questions, respectively. What I want to say. I would like to say that I will not support this proposal, because it is an obvious quota. If, in the past, the quotas were divided at least in a proportionate way, including and allowing some part of the quotas to be distributed among the members of the opposition, then now, by converting the title by saying that it is a political decision of the politicians in power, the quotas in the political forces budget are called "fair redistribution". I am strongly against any quotas which, in fact, show the inefficient work of the relevant ministries and the fact that the ministries and those responsible do not see the problems that actually exist, so that throughout this process - the reallocation of money - the positions in the Saeima at second reading are also taking part. Without a thorough discussion, without an evaluation, but simply two million are redistributed to where the individual financial resources... As a result of resource quotas, it is decided to move them forward. I do not believe that this is a quality work of the Saeima, nor do I believe that this is the way to address serious problems in the economy, society or economy. I will therefore not support the quotas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U210	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U211	To the previous speakers, I would like to remind you that nobody here is prevented from speaking and can apply for a debate and also debate. Mrs Mourniece, I would like to bring together both of my times of debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U212	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U213	Thank you. Colleagues, I have consistently been against such money allocations by Members, consistently more than... seven years, and this time too, I will remain with my own - I will not support the joint proposals of Members or political groups, which come from the funds of unforeseen events, which are being given in a variety of... I must say honestly that these quota proposals are not as “toxic” as they were on 23 November 2016, when we sat up to four in the morning and adopted the budget. I can divide these quotas in a way that we put it in blocks. One thing is, let's... human beings. And there's more. In particular, we know that it goes to people: it goes to children with disabilities, it goes to teachers, it goes to soldiers, it goes to actors, it goes to cancer patients. And such offers are here. Then there are various types of construction. These are roads in all municipalities, bicycles, cars, apologies, parking, so-called, parking, then there are museums, of course... museums, religious organizations and various repairs. I cannot support all this because I think it is wrong. In my opinion, it is wrong with regard to other organisations, it is demonising in principle in some way... to a healthy, equal competition, because you can just call or write an e-mail to a Member and he places such a proposal in this budget, and the money is being put in this society. I am not saying that this is not necessary, I am saying that it is not the right budgetary process. It shows that... this is also 31. - the SIF proposal, which has several million... They need 80,000... Was it really up to the Members to decide here whether this could be done by the Cabinet of Ministers from unforeseen circumstances? The other proposals are... I am not going to debate and speak to everyone; I am saying my opinion that I will not support this matter in this budget. So, colleagues... Well, unfortunately, these quotas have once again appeared. It's not - once again - as drasticly "toxic" as it used to be, we don't give money to cheese books anymore. This is about the fact that... As I said, this...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U214	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U215	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that the 31st proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U216	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 31. - a proposal from Members Pouce, Latkovsky, Jušas and Indricksons! Please, let's vote! It's not about 52, it's two, it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U217	32. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U218	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U219	33. - a proposal from Members Raivja Dzintara, Jura Puces, Jura Juša, Ainara Latkovska and Ata Zakatistova. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U220	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U221	Dear colleagues, Here too, I think it is a very good proposal. Why not support the Latvian National Warriors Society? I think it would be really very good, but it would be a good thing... in this case, perhaps Raivis Dzintars could apply and explain in the debate why such a proposal exists. How did they get to this proposal? I have taken part in a debate where your party's colleagues in the public space are discussing this, I think, very well explained, and this would also be the place where it should be explained. I could also explain any other proposal that has been tabled in this budget review, because - I will repeat - I had the opportunity and I found time to join, as far as I could, the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, and to discuss this issue, and listen to these views. As a Member of the Saeima, with the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, I did not have the opportunity to hear the arguments put forward by the applicants on these proposals. The only exception was Mrs Indricksones, who really justified the previous one, and then there was silence. Simply - votes which, in my opinion, are unacceptable in a democratic society... These proposals, in particular, a whole series of proposals, are really welcome, they are necessary, but the discussion does not take place on them, so I call on the applicants - and I see that Mr Dzintara has applied for, thank you for that) to explain. Also explain... other applicants: other proposals to dispel concerns that this process is opaque and that it is not easy to understand how we have come to these proposals. Thank you, and I call on you to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U222	Name to Member Raiv Dzintar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U223	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I will take the opportunity for Mr Valaiņa to address me personally, and I will call on the Saeima to vote on every proposal in substance. At a time when we are calling something justified or unjustified as quotas, it is, of course, a coercion. The proposal in question. I believe that it is a matter of honour for all of us: to support the allocation of additional funds to the Latvian National Warriors Society. The name of the Latvian National Warriors Society, I think many Members are also associated with the historical personality Nikolai Romanovski, the Latvian Legionist, who has led this organization for many years. Later, after his death, he was taken over by Edgar Skreja, a Legionist of the 19th Division, and with the help of these two men, an object such as the Cemetery of the Lestene Brothers has been created. At present, Edgar Skrey has 96 years of age and is still active in the military community. Younger soldiers are, let us say, engaged in more practical work, but the symbol of this organization is still Edgars Skreja, and along with him there are other 95-96-year-old legioners who organise memorial events, cultural events, educational events. These people have been discriminated against for the most part of their lives, have actually suffered injustice during the occupation period and also during the free state. If we now have the opportunity in any way to help them, then at least the National Union does not care if someone calls it quotas or otherwise. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U224	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U225	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Here the discussion, I think, is not about whether it is necessary to support in this particular case Latvian... No, sorry, Latvian National Warriors Association or - as in the next proposal - the Latvian Officers Association. This is a method. The question is why this type of support is not provided, for example, through the Ministry of Defence? Why is such a question not decided within the framework of “one law: one justice for all”? The State shall establish common criteria, rules to which, how and in what way it provides support, and this shall be done in a transparent manner, by laying down the rules by which decisions are taken by the Government and then by taking a decision in a transparent manner, not as is the case with these parliamentary quotas, to put it in a transparent manner. Therefore, in my opinion, this vote is not in favour of helping or not helping - in particular, as in this proposal - the Latvian National Wars Association or - as in the next proposal - the Latvian Officers' Association, but as a principle, how to do so legally, if it is still a coalition of the rule of law... either in this rather dubious form of parliamentary quotas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U226	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U227	Colleagues and listeners, spectators, voters! We need to look at the context with individual proposals - redeploy an additional two million of the budget's money in the special, otherwise named... but in fact, the actual quotas of Members are, in my opinion,... an unlawful mechanism. The State Audit Office indicated in its opinions that parliamentary quotas are not allowed, because it distorts the budgetary planning process. It also, by its very nature, creates mistrust in the budgetary planning process, in its transparency and also in the protection and respect of the common public interest. Therefore, regardless of the purpose for which the quota is used, it is an important process, a procedure for making it understandable and for providing it with the financial resources of a particular bank, as appropriate. We know that the Ministry of Culture is under the supervision of the National Association, we know that the Society Integration Fund is redistributing millions, many millions, we know that the Ministry of Defence also has a budgeted and planned sufficiently serious increase to meet the financial needs of the Ministry of Defence. And here suddenly, for second reading, such proposals appear, which are enough and distributed around... for each of the political forces in the coalition, EUR 400 000, which is obviously the quota of Members. They are unethical and illegal. That is why I will not support any of the quotas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U228	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U229	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues and colleagues! Now it is pleasant, and I hope the press, no matter to whom it reflects the statements made by Members of the opposition or position... The press should be aware and the media should be aware that there is a reduced time just before Members' quotas. But the story is probably not about shortening time, but about how and why additional money is shared, and also for whom. We have today debated the Society Integration Fund, which, to a certain extent, is a support body for non-governmental organisations. Then why would it not be possible for the SIF to do so and to support those societies that you want to support in particular at the moment, through parliamentary quotas, knowing what is next year or what is going on next year. In any case, both the Latvian National Wars Association and the Latvian Officers' Association mentioned in the next proposal would be much more happy if, first of all, they would receive this funding on a regular basis, second, in competition with other non-governmental societies, and not in this way in particular. On the contrary, it would be an honor if such funding, stable every year, had been budgeted by the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of Culture. This would honor both applicants, quota applicants and also honor soldiers, and then any patriot in Latvia would support this allocation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U230	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U231	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, First of all, I would like to say that reducing the time of the debate before the quotas of MEPs, the quotas of the coalition Members, is insane. If we are talking about the Latvian National Wars Association, then I certainly cannot vote against such a proposal, despite the fact that it is in the form of quotas at the moment on the eve of the national holiday, but I believe that this way to divide one society, yes, a very important society, despite other non-governmental organisations in general, societies, which, among other things, really contribute to the feeling of patriotism in our country, especially our young people, and mention this issue often with seniors and our soldiers, including people who have fought and defended our country in many and various military situations, when it has been necessary, also gave their lives and lost their friends and loved ones... And now, on the eve of public holidays, I think that this proposal should be supported, and I really also draw attention to the fact that the way we get into a situation where we give an organisation... but we are leaving a very large number of organisations today without consideration, which could possibly also be spent very adequately, to the benefit of our people as a whole. Therefore, colleagues, a way, when there is no really evaluation and competition, and objective criteria that are understandable to everyone, and only by political affiliation, is being given some money, is wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U232	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman. ( Pause) Mr. Feldman, we can't hear you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U233	I'm sorry. I wanted to say that the budgetary process as a whole is very complicated and various adjustments are also being made already after the Cabinet has returned it to the Saeima. Among other things, we have seen that there are proposals of all kinds, there are proposals from the Commission, which have not even been evaluated in the Cabinet, there are proposals from Members, which have already been discussed in advance, for example, on the ceiling for the charges for land registers, which, for no reason, call for such a debate. But it is from Members, who even SASKĀJA does not see in her ranks, about the Latvian National Wars Association, about the creation of events of the centenary is the most debate. I also, of course, have questions why, for example, this issue was not addressed in the Ministry of Defence budget. That question, on my part, is quite so legitimate, because at least the new conservative management sector does not have a field of protection. Of course, it should be, but if it turns out that there is no such thing in the budget, it has been missed for some reason, then it must be put. And it must be done to the Members of the Saeima who respect their history in some way. If it's not placed somewhere next year for some reason... And that's the question... then it will have to be adjusted again and placed. And that's it every year. And that's what we're gonna do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U234	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U235	Dear colleagues, Here, after all those speeches, there would be a special place for, for example, the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence to tell us whether such a request, such as such a letter, was received at the Ministry of Defence - a request for assistance for those 10 thousand... whether it was received, and what or why it was decided to reject it at the Ministry of Defence, because there are two options here, colleagues - either for some reason such a letter, such a request was not made at the Ministry of Defence, or whether it was made and apparently the Ministry of Defence has either neglected it or has considered and taken a decision to reject it. So why is it that today, here, colleagues from the National Union and others come up with this proposal as Members? It would be good to hear an explanation.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U236	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U237	First of all, I thank Mr Dzintara for his clarification. It is a good example for other colleagues, as maybe in the future... when we look at these proposals and hope that this will be the case. But in this case really this... We discussed this with Mr Bergmanis, former Minister of Defence, during which this issue was already addressed in the Ministry of Defence's own budget. Undoubtedly, in our view too, this is a very important topic, a very important issue... what Members have addressed at the moment, but on the approach, on the principle of why it is not a basic basis in the budget, questions remain. And if we are talking about good governance, the principles of good governance, especially the many such Members who are particularly concerned about this and who are particularly important, are in the Development/About Group. ... There's something quiet right now. I call for this proposal to be supported, but for the other proposals it will be another discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U238	I closed the debate. For the Commission, please... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U239	I would like to say that the 33rd proposal was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U240	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 33. - the proposal from Members Dzintara, Pouce, Juša, Latkovska and Zakatistov! Please, let's vote! No, 58, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U241	34. The proposal has also been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U242	Members want to have a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U243	Dear colleagues, On this proposal, too, we really see the objective. So, organization of events of the centenary of the Latvian Association of Officers. In our view, such a proposal should have already been included in the basic budget of the Ministry of Defence. And this issue was not supposed to appear as a motion from Members, which resulted from the so-called Members' quotas. Well, if that's why... I am calling for support for this particular proposal, but the approach, as it has reached the Members' table, is not the right one in my view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U244	Name to Member Raiv Dzintar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U245	Hello again, colleagues! I'm not going to get a lot of involved. The debate is obviously reoccurred, but I would like to remind Mr Tatar that the policy does not consist of four years. Mr Tawar said that the way in which the funds are allocated is bad. I would like to remind you that the same form was used at the time when the Greens/Farmers' Union led the government when it was the Prime Minister of the Greens/Farmers' Union. And then the National Association provided proposals and received support, including support from the Latvian National Warriors Association, including support from the Latvian Workers' Association. In our view, politicians must be involved in the process of drawing up the budget as their values throughout the adoption of the budget - whether it takes place in the Cabinet, or whether it takes place in the Saeima. And it is clear that everything you want to support will never be supported, but each stage must be used to reach its maximum. And that's what we do. Mrs Papules mentioned competition. It seems to me that men from 95-96 years old are required to take part in competitions, to compete... I think they have already participated in their competition. They have already done their own. And if we talk about the specific proposal, about supporting the Latvian Association of Officers for centenary events, then it is about publishing special editions of the centenary magazine Kadets. The collection and publication of historical memories of the members of the Latvian Association of Officers, the creation of a memorial tree alley and the inspection of places of burial of the members of the Latvian Association of Officers, the production and installation of memorial plates. I very much call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U246	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U247	Colleagues! I will support this proposal, just like the previous proposal, on this eve of the national holiday. I have to reflect on the leader of the National Union, Mr Raivis Dzintars, on this tradition with parliamentary quotas. I would like to remind you that it is at the time of the previous government, following the initiative of the Greens/Earthers Union, that the National Association and the New Unity... We agreed, gentlemen, that this long-standing procedure - Members' quotas - which started before several governments - should end. That with these proposals on taxpayers' funds we go through the Cabinet of Ministers rationally, we weigh it through the criteria, and if a non-governmental organisation has problems drawing up documents, writing an application, we can help any of these organisations, these old men. We're anybody - Raivis Dzintars or Edgars Tavars or Ināra Mūrniece. We have the opportunity to help these people. Our duties do not prevent us from helping non-governmental organisations free of charge. Therefore, my fellow Members, I think that if we stick to the principle of "a man and a word", then "a man and a word" remains both in 2018 and in 2021.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U248	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U249	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues and colleagues! And Mr. Dzintari! You mentioned a very valuable phrase that Members must defend their values. But you forgot to say that all 100 Members, regardless of whether they are in position or in opposition. Therefore, members of the opposition, if the coalition has decided to play with the quotas of Members, should also have the right to defend their values equivalent to those of 50 to 54, who are currently playing with an additional two million, which would certainly be useful both for those you are giving and those waiting on the line, especially in the area of health. Values are the same for all Members. Members of the opposition must also have the same rights as you are in the position to be correct. Secondly. Clean-up of graves and memorial sites or the creation of new plates is not an obligation for soldiers, old soldiers. It is a duty of the state of Latvia. And such things must be included in the Latvian state budget, not in the 96-year-olds. You hear and give you extra funding suddenly - this is not a good attitude towards former soldiers, former Latvian soldiers. Once again, it must be in the state budget - in the budget of the Ministry of Culture or in the budget of the Ministry of Defence - and not in the quotas of Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U250	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U251	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I must admit that my colleague Raivis Dzintars has quite rightly pointed out that, in this particular case, to ask of these people who, yes, have already participated in their competitions... Very well said... Participation in any competition based on MK rules or something like that... But, Mr. Dzintari, the question remains: why? Why has the Ministry of Defence failed to do what that Ministry had to do? I think that it would be very useful for the Minister of Defence to take the floor and explain what has happened then, because we can only interpret that there has been a mistake. Was that a mistake in communication or attitude? Good question. And now you are proposing, you and the other Members who are tabling this proposal, to correct this error. But then I think it's in all our interests that this mistake not be repeated in the coming years... and, in this regard, to hear the Ministry of Defence explaining how it was - in the overall budget, which is, if I am not mistaken, somewhere around EUR 700 million a year, there were not ten plus... 30 thousand Latvian veterans. Thank you. Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U252	This coalition came with a story that there is a new order, there will now be a new policy, no quota, no coalition councils, and something else for us... good management... He didn't promise, and so on. And at the moment, I do not understand why Mr Dzintara is rejecting something for the previous government, the previous government, which, by its very nature, put an end to this practice. And you were also in the same government... There, just as the New Unity was present, there was no “Developing for!” which promised good governance, a transparent policy... And you know what else you didn't say there. At the end of the day, we are returning to quotas, and this only shows that you are unable to organise your work. Do not be able to bring important things into the general budget and Members should not deal with quotas for anyone... the implementation of the options. You are now returning this order, rejecting it for years, and it will take years to put it in order again so that it works properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U253	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U254	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that the 34th proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U255	Please call me! To be put to the vote on 34. - the proposal from Members Dzintara, Pouce, Juša, Latkovska and Zakatistov! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U256	35. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U257	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 35. - The Cabinet's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, 66, against and refrains. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U258	36. The Commission's proposal is supported. And it is a reallocation from unforeseen resources to the Ministry of Economics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U259	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U260	President of the Saeima. Colleagues! I see here that Mr Znotiņš has applied to explain what is meant by this. Surprisingly, this framework programme of the Ministry of Economic Affairs has not already been incorporated. So support in the activity of the Latvian Association of New Enterprises, collection of statistical data on new enterprises. We have a huge section in the Ministry of Economics regarding statistics, various forms of collection and other issues. Now a very wide restaurant is there, and at the moment we see that 20 thousand Latvian Association of Young Enterprises is needed for activity. Colleagues, this is a very interesting proposal that will bring this added value... And, most importantly, you can understand why this one, how to name it... The Ministry of Economics has not had the wish and opportunity to do so within the existing budget. And there is a huge resource below the Ministry of Economics, dealing with these things, carrying out various types of statistics... an entire government there. Why this does not happen, hopefully Mr Znotiņš will explain, and thank you for your involvement in the debate in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U261	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U262	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I will tell you in general about proposals 36, 37, 38 and 39 - why these proposals have arisen and why they are necessary - because I think many of you have heard and appreciate the development of the ecosystem of Latvian start-ups. Despite the minimal involvement from the country, we have grown companies such as Printful, Printfy, Giraffe360 and others that have been able to attract private investors, mostly foreign private investors, but also local, hundreds of millions of euros, which are mainly invested in the salaries of people, the wages of qualified people, and also create great added value, which overall contributes to the well-being of the Latvian people and really promotes... Most of these products, which these companies produce, also go for export... therefore, Latvia's competitiveness, exportability and so on. So why these specific proposals, why this money has not been found, and also what Mr Valaiņš said about this particular proposal. Unfortunately, there is no such support, let us say, for the development of the eco-system of start-ups in the Ministry of Economics budget, so it is a pleasure that Members have noticed, and this has been corrected here. And let's say, about the data, if you look at the data from the Ministry of Economics at the moment that they are operating in relation to the ecosystem of Latvian start-ups, then it's a research done in 2019, which is in principle a period before. So the data collected for 2018 and so on are not these hundreds of millions of investments that have entered exactly the last year, and so on. Please combine the times of the debate!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U263	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U264	Yes, as a result, these proposals include support for key sector bodies so that we grow its roots for the ecosystem of start-ups, so that we can come up with our printfoil, printfighters, flyers and so on. And there is also support here, for example, for conferences bringing together international investors. For example, the TechChill conference, which is in principle the only one of its kind in Latvia and gathers every time two thousand international entrepreneurs and investors travelling to Latvia, who get acquainted with companies here, are investing in Latvian companies and so on. These proposals also include support for the education of investors, local investors, so that they can understand what the ecosystem of start-ups is and how to invest in them. And, in general, I just want to say that I hope that in the future, too, this will be dealt with in the basic budget of the Ministry of Economics as a basic funding, i.e. for the development of a new business ecosystem every year...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U265	Thank you. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U266	Thank you. Please combine the times!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U267	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U268	Thank you. I mean... on this proposal in particular. Yes, Mr. Znotiņš specializes in lobbying the interests of the Latvian Association of Young Enterprises; he provides representation in the Saeima both with financial support and with information... start-ups, but I have to understand each other's case. For example, this funding heading for 20 000, which we are now debating, is intended for the collection of statistics and data on start-ups. Development and maintenance of the business start-ups database. Resources are needed for the development of the database and maintenance of the database. Colleagues, do you know that we have a Central Statistical Office in which the number of people employed, the number of officials and officials is one of the biggest, although, by nature, this body should be using technology that has long been modernised and its work - effective? Unfortunately, however, the Central Statistical Office does not compile statistics on these data. Then I have a question: who is responsible for ensuring that the Central Statistical Office does not provide for the processing, preparation and analysis of the data of the start-ups? Is this difficult: to ensure that such statistics are compiled through elementary administrative management measures? I do not believe that there is. This could be ensured within existing resources. Another thing that comes up here. The database will help the public administration to get information about Latvian start-ups and attract investors, as well as in working with the media and promoting the image of the Latvian eco-business system. Colleagues! For us, 500 thousand euros is already allocated to the Ministry of Economics this year for the promotion, development and research of the image, but the competition ended without results because the Procurement Monitoring Office found violations. So how many times will we study, analyse? How many bodies will they do this? How much is the budget spent? Why do some additional units, additional funding are needed, why cannot this be done within the existing framework? Why do we need EUR 500 000 to purge the study and then order another study? How long will it last? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U269	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U270	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Now we have to ask the same questions as every single Member's quota. At least I'm happy... I very much appreciate that those Members who are obviously, so to say, the authors of these quotas choose to speak and explain to us and to the general public what reasons have been given for making such a proposal... and, of course, not only to submit but also to agree within the coalition that this proposal should be supported. With regard to this specific proposal, which is intended to allocate EUR 20 000 to Latvian taxpayers' money so that the Latvian Association of Young Enterprises can collect, create - and not only create but also maintain - a new business database, the first question is, of course, as follows: if we believe that the creation of such a database is a good and supportive case (let us assume that this is the case), then why do we not submit it to the Central Statistical Office, whose maintenance we spend EUR 11 million each year? Why do we not believe it for those who are professionals in public administration? If we continue to fund them, it means that we regard them as professionals. So why do we trust the association itself?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U271	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U272	Colleagues! I thank Mr Znotiņš for his explanation, but it is after listening to this explanation that I do have the same reflections as Mr Dombrovskis. I think this money... The aim is good, but it does not need to have money in the budget. On the contrary, it is necessary to give the Ministry of Economics a very clear and concrete task to do so, to do so once it is a political idea, and there is nothing wrong with Mr Znotiņš being in favour of these issues. I, too, believe in some ways that start-ups should support how well the country can do this. And if such statistics are needed, it is not necessary for any single association; the state needs such statistics, and it needs to be given the task. That is why I cannot support this particular proposal, and I call on my colleagues, too, not to support it, but to give the Ministry of Economic Affairs a very clear task - in the context of the 11 million budget, however, to find an opportunity to address this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U273	The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U274	Colleagues! These are just two million Members' quotas... of the funding needed to hold a coalition together. And it is so strange that the Ministry of Economics does not have 10 thousand studies, but it was reported in March this year that the Ministry of Economics plans to spend 120,000 on the advertising campaign. And the campaign's goal is as simple as shopping safely. Teach people how to shop. In addition, the Ministry of Economics decided not to conduct a tender procedure but itself addressed six advertising agencies, of which only one was applied, which was found to be sufficiently good to carry out this advertising campaign. And here, too, you can talk about the procurement procedure and its transparency... And, of course, it's all very easy to realize. And if there's 120 thousand euros for the advertising campaign and even 10 thousand of them won't be set aside to cover such a very important need... that you have to go through the Members' quotas... That is why I cannot support this either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U275	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U276	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that 36 proposals have been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U277	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 36. - the proposal by Members Jušas, Dzintara, Latkovska, Puces and Zakatistov! Please, let's vote! For -63, for -6 and for -1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U278	37. - a proposal from Members Jušas, Dzintars, Latkovska, Puces and Zakatistov, on which Vjačeslav Dombrovskis asked why he could not arrange for this conference to be supported by the Ministry. This proposal is supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U279	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U280	Thank you. Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Well, this is also a question on the ground - why cannot it be supported by the ministry? So TechChill... supports the organisation of the TechChill 2022 conference. It is not the case that state-owned companies have not supported this conference so far, but there is also the support of state-owned companies. These conferences are also... of which... made... And in this respect, 10 thousand euros... There is the Investment and Development Agency of Latvia - not with the smallest budget... If it is a priority, why cannot it be supported systemically? In my opinion, this is not the case that these organisers would not be able to receive and apply for such support themselves. Maybe it's so symbolic as well... Well, when the state, see, also supports such... At least 10 thousand... support such measures, but this measure is final... There are others who take part, organise events of the same type in Latvia, also fight in some way for funding, and there should be equal opportunities here for organising such events, not so that we are there specifically from the budget itself... We're already saying, right now... placing particular emphasis on the fact that... Well, it's not that the state subsidized... they are not already taking part in these measures. Therefore, colleagues, this proposal also awaits clarification from the applicants, and we hope that this will be the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U281	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U282	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues and colleagues! Yes, clarification would probably be necessary, especially if you read, to which 10,000 are currently intended. We can see that it is not just for the organisation of the conference, but for... In parentheses say that this is the real content - it is the attraction of the audience of investors. Would that mean that 10,000 would have to be spent to attract those people who would attend the conference at all? Probably not. Explanatory notes would therefore be necessary. But if we look at the three proposals put forward by Mr Znotiņš (EUR 45 thousand), I just want to remind you that at this moment, when health care is a priority and there is a shortage of people working in hospitals and health and education institutions... And we can see that the family doctor, too, could soon start missing... Knowing their stress, the preparation of doctors’ assistants is important, it would help doctors and reduce the lack of resources in hospitals and... Well, at this point - rather in the practice of doctors; then this money would have been very pragmaticly used to prepare nine doctors' assistants. And if we look at the context of quotas, there would be already 25 medical assistants who have received education and could work in health care and help to overcome the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U283	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U284	Colleagues, I will try to answer the questions and tell you again. So, whether this is the only conference. Yes, at the moment, it could be said that in the area of start-up, this is the only conference that remains. In the past, there was also a Digital Freedom Festival, but precisely because of the lack of funding, such a conference is no longer happening. There's now one left in Latvia - TechChill. And, as I said, last time I said, comes every time (listed!) more than two thousand foreign entrepreneurs and investors. And yes, Mrs Papule, we also need a budget to address those investors who are not yet aware of such a conference. To make them come to Riga to invest their money in Latvian companies and thus help to develop. If we do not do so, then the state budget will not be able to earn money to pay higher salaries for doctors, higher salaries for teachers and so on. Yes, of course, there are these positions... but somehow the money must be earned, and these specific proposals I make are aimed at how to earn money, how to earn money for the state, the state's entrepreneurs and then leave it in the budget so that other needs can be covered. So... Every time we talk to the organizers, both these and other conferences, and the same Digital Freedom Festival, there is this uncertainty. And what Mr. Valaiņš said is that some organizations, capital companies, are already supporting... Yeah, they do, but it's never known until the last moment. The organisers are under stress and panic as to whether they will be able to pay their bills, because these proposals are never adopted in time and this support is not... accepted. And so... That's why I too... I mentioned the first time... I very much hope that such funding for the development of the start-ups sector will be included in the basic budget of the Ministry of Economics and will be stable every time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U285	Thank you. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U286	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I ask you to combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U287	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U288	Thank you. Colleagues! Mr. Znotins! Please understand me correctly. My opposition to this specific and previous proposals is not meaningful... If all you say is - it is true - then these proposals as such are welcome. But my reservations are about the method. I am ready to support those proposals where... I am convinced that it has indeed been either an error on the part of the administration, without supporting it, either some negligence or, in the case of some other error... But since the public administration is silent, I am forced to ask such questions again. This is what I looked at your proposal. This is a conference that will attract you, as you write, how much? - two thousand international guests. The fact that the Ministry of Economics either did not support it or lay down this proposal is evidence of criminal negligence only by the Ministry of Economics, or I would even say so. Because two thousand foreign guests... If we think about how many days that conference is... Even if it is for one day, how much money they will leave in Latvian hotels, restaurants and others! If that's all... if you can get two thousand people, foreign guests, that's, even when you're abstracting from the conference theme... About 10 thousand get two thousand foreign guests, each of whom will probably spend more than a hundred euros in a day - that is, I am sure is a very good deal. If the Ministry of Economics does not support something like that, then, as I said, it is criminal negligence on the part of the Ministry of Economics. In addition, we are talking about a conference that is in the digital area, or IT. Since we are spending several tens of million euros on digital transformation, if not hundreds, then... do not support such a conference - it also shows huge negligence on the part of the Ministry of Economics. But then, please tell me... Who has the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs here? Tell me what exactly happened why Members are now forced into this...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U289	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U290	Unfortunately, as we can see, the time allowed is not enough to allow a real qualitative debate on these proposals. I would also like to point out that the measure, which takes place from 27 to 29 April, is, by its very nature, to be supported. I completely join in the above; I am also somewhat surprised at why the government in this case... This is about 10 thousand euros for an event that really... Well, we don't know if there will be two thousand people or... how many of them will be online connected to this conference, but in any case, even purely... No value added, but... Direct revenues could even be - from these participants, from hotels and from everything else - for our economy; the result would be to return a lot, much more to taxes. Indirect benefits are still much more potential. But where is the problem? The problem is that the proposal concerns... and, more generally, on this issue... this money was directed to the Ministry of Economics - the introduction of external economic policy... this so-called program, a subprogramme that... in fact, it is a great mistake because, by its very nature, such measures should rather have been organised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which at the same time would also look at what we are talking internationally and what will or will not be left to our economy. We can organise many different events, organise economic missions, invite potential investors and introduce our start-ups (and not only start-ups, but also investment opportunities in Latvia!) in numerous and different fora. We've also gone... And the representatives of the ministries - on missions to China... By the way, at one time - also to Belarus, to the Great Stone, where there were investments from both Germany and China and from many other countries in the world. So that - there are things that are now open to us that are not geo-politically closed, so we need to look at these issues in conjunction with our foreign policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U291	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U292	Colleagues, I'll just tell you... I will provide additional information so that other colleagues are also informed. This year, the Latvian Institute of Investment and Development has been added to the Latvian Investment and Development Agency - together with four headquarters, together with funding. And it is this formation that is functionally designed to ensure the development of the image of Latvia. The funding for these four posts, officials, is much higher than, for example, the 10 000 required for the organisation of a conference of start-ups. At the same time, the LIAA itself as a restaurant has many different innovations... the department which is also responsible for innovation policy, for the development of business policy - and so on, and so on. It follows that the institution under the authority of the Ministry of Finance is not properly fulfilling its duties, that officials do not see problems, and that now there is an attempt to deal with the issue in pieces with the quotas of Members. Is this kind of approach in addressing serious issues to be supported? I don't think so. Please combine the time of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U293	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U294	Thank you. It is also necessary to understand that Latvia's performance in innovation ranking in the European Union does not show excellent results or achievements, because it has deteriorated over the year, as the European Commission published a review of innovation results in 2021. In 2020, Latvia in the EU innovation ranking of 27 countries ranked in 23rd, but this year Latvia has already fallen to 25th. In 2020, Latvia was ranked among the countries that are known as moderate innovators, but in the latest ranking Latvia has reached among those countries that are considered to be innovators. And you, fellow Members, are now planning to solve this problem with 10 thousand Members' quotas if the problem is, in fact, the absence of a systemic approach in the restaurant under the supervision of the Ministry of Economic Affairs? The problems must be dealt with systemically and qualitatively, not by piece or by piece. And Members' quotas - that is not the instrument that will help us to develop innovation now. I agree with Mrs Papule, who said: if we do not have a whole citizen, there will be no investment in Latvia. You can organise as many conferences and research as you want, but no investor will invest his or her money in the country that dies. Forgive me, I will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U295	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U296	Colleagues, very briefly about this conference. It is not that the State is not in favour of this conference. I would like to say that the state is in favour. In particular, if we are talking about the 2022 conference - as I said, the Investment and Development Agency of Latvia is one of the partners... most likely also financial supporters, as well as Riga City Council. And between companies, capital companies, - “Latvian Mobile Phone”, where the country is also a shareholder. The question is, why do we need an additional 10 000? I have the feeling that these organisations not only support this measure with 10 thousand. There may be even more. Tickets - from 50 to 200 euros... But, of course, this is a very good thing. I invite every colleague to attend. Mr Znotiņš: for his honesty I will support this proposal because he has acknowledged that it is his proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U297	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U298	Madam President, Well, it's clear that... If you read the application, then... In brackets there is an indication that 10,000 are planned to attract investors. It is not about organisation, but about attracting investors, and it seems to me that the debateer has also mentioned it. Then I have an encouragement. Perhaps you can use the Member's quota allocated to volunteer training and the development of methodological materials? Perhaps these people, who are going to attract investors, can go through volunteer training, become volunteers, probably certified or otherwise certified, and address investors very skillfully? And then you could say... the Members' quota would then be used more efficiently. At this point in time, Mr Znotiņš, your sub-committee needs to be taken by young people, which seems to be a good thing.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U299	The name of Member Eric Pucen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U300	Hello, dear colleagues! Well, I would say this: it's a deliberate crime from the National Alliance, which in its huge budget... The Ministry of Economy has not been able to find these 10,000. Well, if many entrepreneurs come here, they may bring even more investors here. Well, where does the Ministry of Economics look? As we can see, Mr Znotiņš said very well, and perhaps Mr Znotiņš has to become Parliamentary Secretary in the Ministry of Economics, because we see that all of us from the National Association have wanted a stone. And for the allowances of Members. I remember very well that one of the previous speakers was the first to run to the cooperation meeting with a fox... the same person will now understand, who was at the first parliamentary quota, spoke... And there are many Members' quotas in this budget. And it is very interesting that there are coalition Members who have said they do not support Members' quotas and who are now sitting and not voting but unable to convince their colleagues not to vote in favour of Members' quotas. Well, if this proposal is so good and brings the investors here, maybe it may be considered that it could also be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U301	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U302	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that the 37rd proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U303	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 37. - the proposal by Members Jušas, Dzintara, Latkovska, Puces and Zakatistov! Please, let's vote! No, 66, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U304	38. - the proposal by Members Jušas, Dzintara, Latkovska, Puces and Zakatistov. The Commission is supported. Request to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U305	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U306	Colleagues! This proposal also aims to re-allocate funding to the Ministry of Economics’ budget sub-programme ‘Implementing external economic policy’ in order to find financial support for TechHub Riga, a mentor programme for start-ups, and to develop the environment for start-ups. As I have already mentioned, Latvia's Investment and Development Agency has a very large budget, its composition as well as appropriate funding for the implementation of its external economic policy. Let the Latvian Investment and Development Agency then abandon the state image of the research, which is obviously useless... way of wasting money, and investing this half a million, this money, specifically in the development of certain start-ups. And that will also... bring added value. I believe that such measures must be systemic, prudent and that the resources must be within the framework of a restaurant under the Ministry of Economics - LIAA. I therefore do not support quotas, but I believe that resources should be provided and sought within the LIAA itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U307	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U308	Colleagues! I can only agree that this support must be systematic. If it were systematic support, it would probably lead to much better results. There would be some clarity, as in Lithuania and Estonia, where several million are devoted to the development of the ecosystem of start-ups every year. So this systematic approach should probably be. What I want to say about this, and also about the next proposal, is an essential part of the ecosystem, namely the education of local investors, because we know that most Latvian entrepreneurs have earned their money in various types of businesses, but they have almost never been linked to technology and start-up business. Such entrepreneurs who... Now we have our first principle... which earn money with this kind of business and invest further, we already see, and the same Printify, the founders of Printful have already invested in several future start-ups to develop their environment. I also want to move those other entrepreneurs who, for example, come from other sectors, from some production or from another area. Really understand how start-ups work, what is the way to invest. You know... explain to these entrepreneurs that it is normal that start-ups, for example, do not bring immediate profits and take some time, but, if they succeed, their profits may be many times higher than those of other companies. Targeted interpretative work is needed, and with these proposals too... Both the Latvian Association of Business Angels and TechHub... This educational work is planned to be carried out systematically and regularly so that more local investors can really move, invest and see the potential in this environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U309	The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U310	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. I am asking for the time of my debate to be brought together.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U311	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U312	Thank you. There are very short times of debate, so it is, of course, very difficult to speak in such a short time, but I will try to do it, however. When I was an economic minister, however, we found an opportunity to support this type of activity from the Ministry's budget. And the basic principle I followed was the following. At the moment when these start-ups come up... Often 90 percent of those who are trying to move their ideas forward naturally still die, but 10 percent, who still make up this successful story, are huge leverage for all of this. Often people who work on their own ideas in these start-up associations end up focusing on the idea of another, more successful, colleague, developing it by working with each other. And so we see such fairly fast-growing companies. Companies at a time of rapid growth - with high added value - also generate value added tax. Now that we are debating the state budget... And that's what we heard from experts... Often experts have mentioned the need to invest as much as possible in the context of potential future profits. The development of start-ups is indeed linked, above all, to the possible additional employment of people, the creation of high value-added enterprises, the increase in tax revenues and, consequently, to the prosperity of our country. In addition, we can be proud of a number of companies that do not occur in the same way; they only arise when several people work together - precisely in the context of start-ups. So we can't be snooping if I can say so. Indeed, the proposal is to support this proposal, my fellow Members, without dividing it: the position and the opposition. What is more, now that we have really done a pitiful and pitiful act by raising the Prime Minister's salary, another official's salary. On the other hand, this proposal, which is not really very fiscally ambitious, is something we... Still think of supporting or not. Please, colleagues, support, otherwise we are double-fold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U313	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U314	President-in-Office. Colleagues! I also think of this proposal that, of course, it should have been in the general budget. In this budget, however, in general, funding has also been found... 11 million extra... Business incubators that I think are like... one of the components of this field, where... how should it be done... and quite successfully also works. Well, at least I think so. If we look at... where this funding is very important, but these proposals are very, very small amounts. But we're talking about such a high amount of matter! Now we call the companies Printify and... Well, these are our future unicorns. And they're not the only unicorns, they're the other unicorns, and if they walk around the VEF block, they're going to find more than one thing that's like going on the way to it. I think, however... We are talking, we are calling on these high-level matter when it comes to these proposals - that this will give you the final impression and that there will now be one. I rather perceive them as symbolic proposals that will, by their very nature, have little effect in this common... and there should be public policy here, and these proposals are definitely not in place, they are rather as a task for the government, what should be done, because with such amounts... I doubt that we can change something great in this area. If we're talking about potential... with billions of capital... large companies, I think not. We already have a whole series of things that have been put into this budget. This proposal, like the previous one, for fairness, for the fact that Mr Znotiņš admits that it is his proposals, I call for support if, once it has been found in the budget, there are funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U315	Name to Member Uldis Budric.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U316	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I would like to emphasise that we can still calculate how each euro invested - namely the euro invested in supporting this sector - brings back to the whole economy and the country. In addition, when looking at this topic, it is not possible to mention the regulation of stock options, where... We can say thank you very much to Rainis Znotiņš for updating... that out of these habs, I'm talking about TechHub, our own companies, the same Printify, all the others. These are the companies that can introduce the so-called Skype effect in Latvia, the start-up systems. These people are investing further and maintaining and continuing their ecosystem. However, I would like to mention the IT sub-committee, namely the meeting of the Commission on Sustainable Development, the Information Technology and Innovative Business Sub-committee, which invited people from start-ups and the ecosystem, as well as the Ministry of Economics. Now it has become clear that new companies and this ecosystem have never been a priority for the Ministry of Economics. How slow and bad to work and the puppet was the law on startups! Disproportionately high fees for capital investment funds... and so on, and so on. However... Yesterday's criticism was that it was necessary to indicate where to find and earn. Today there is a proposal to at least put emphasis on one of the priorities on which the Ministry of Economics should look. And I also agree with the Rhine and also with colleagues from the opposition: these proposals must be systematic... Systematic and Economic Ministry needs to change priorities slightly. That is why I am calling for support for both this proposal and the next one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U317	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U318	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Here too - the question is not about content, but the question is - why are so obvious things not supported and financed by the Ministry of Economics programme? For the Ministry of Economics, the budget for next year is EUR 203 million. The Ministry of Economics will spend two million euros on what is called an economic development programme. The Ministry of Economics will spend EUR 54 million on what is called a state aid programme. But when we talk about the same TechHub, not so long ago, literally a few days ago, we have read news that the government... with one hand, which is, as I can say, the hand of the Ministry of Culture, throw away TechHub... Well, not really throw away, but doing something that TechHub himself goes out of the premises they rented from the Ministry of Culture, and now with the other hand... Even now, it is not the government itself that allocates, but it is funded by TechHub in the form of parliamentary quotas. Well, colleagues, there's a salty barrack in that decision making! The question really is that... Mr. Budrik said quite rightly now... and that is a very big question: why the Ministry of Economics is not obviously a great priority for competitiveness in this area, in the field of IT. As we are reading today's news, the main message is that the Ministry of Economics talks about Christmas markets.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U319	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U320	Yes, I too, like Vjačeslav Dombrovskis, would like, by the way, to talk about what we read in the news. We read that TechHub Riga Foundation has to leave its premises because it has not received the expected support from the Ministry of Culture and the Cabinet of Ministers. And, of course, we can talk about some logical, rational decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to support this foundation at all! Here, in this proposal, this amount is also relatively small: on the budgetary side, a small amount. This is EUR 15 000 - a foundation that is the basis for our potential unicorns - billion worth of companies, innovative companies that can shoot. They can... make such decisions... Such companies may not be one year, two, three, five, but at one time there may be several, two, three, and bring incomparably enormous benefits to the Latvian economy. That is what I have talked about, among other things, yesterday - about the proposals of the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which were really more focused on those small businesses, the everyday ones who work, who may not have such support. This proposal deals with a small amount. The proposal is certainly welcome. And it is absolutely clear to me why such proposals do not come from the Cabinet of Ministers - because there is some obvious political intrigue or political jealousy: who has a relative there... I think you know best. But the result? Latvia's economy, Latvian economy and everything related to it suffer from this. I am therefore definitely in favour of this specific proposal. I believe that this support should have been greater. I would have hoped that... have been a normal evaluation from the Cabinet of Ministers, an honest assessment of which foundations we help, where we can... Please bring my debates together.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U321	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U322	... where and what foundations we can help to ensure that potential start-ups, different types of start-ups, are supported in Latvia, evaluated, given them a real... Either it's a mentor, or... any kind of help for them to develop, so that we can beam all this and find those of our diamonds - small diamonds that are really grounded and developed, and to support, as necessary, as developed countries do. Let us look at Finland, where such similar organisations are developing under the auspices of large universities - in the initial period, until they become many million worthy companies. Therefore, colleagues, I also strongly support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U323	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U324	Dear Members, I think we're feeling here as hostages. It is felt at least by those who have not participated in all those budgetary negotiations and in the drafting of these proposals. Well, there's a feeling... I feel like I'm in a kind of screws. First. On the previous proposals that we had - on the Latvian National Warriors Association, on the events of the centenary of the Latvian Association of Officers... I'm interested in why the Ministry of Defence... and that would be its direct obligation... Why has it not shot, as Mr. Tatar said? Why has this not been done, and why are such proposals now coming? And how does it look from the side after that? When you explain it, then right away... The ignorance makes it careful, and people fear the ignorance. When you explain it, it's quite different. That is exactly what happens to these proposals, which are - for all of them... TechHub and the Ministry of Economy. Why has the Ministry of Economics not shot, so say, by this? Why not? Why has the Investment and Development Agency of Latvia not done this? In my opinion, this is their primary task - to deal with such things. And then I have a question. If a former minister, Nemiro, says that he has supported it, it was already inside that ministry, the present... In other words, public policy in the Ministry of Economic Affairs has changed and has now been removed. And now, Members, we are thirsty like in the warfield... Now we, as a war-hospital, are thirsting for this budget, where these things must be inside, because they really must be inside. This TechHub, all these start-ups - this is our present and our future. But why do you have to deal with it... with 10 thousand euros... 15 thousand euros there, these are the figures that... are truly people and development-oriented. Why is this happening here at the second reading of the draft budget? That is wrong. It is wrong that we now have to talk about soldiers, veterans, start-ups, teachers of the year, and so on. We wanted to...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U325	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U326	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that the 38th proposal... right to you, colleagues, it seems... The commission was supported because it is good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U327	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 38. - the proposal by Members Jušas, Dzintara, Latkovska, Puces and Zakatistov! Please, let's vote! No, 69, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported. Please enable a section on the procedure. Dear colleagues, Members Tavars, Bergmanis, Augulis, Jalinska, Dūklavs, Krauze, Valainis, Vucanas, Kučinskis, Sprūde and Many have submitted a proposal to determine and... Therefore, they will also continue to determine the timing of the debate: five minutes, speaking for the first time, and two minutes, speaking for the second time... on the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2022, 2023 and 2024 and... Draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2022, 2023 and 2024. Well, yes, this is the proposal. Member Edgars Tavars has applied to speak on this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U328	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Now, in fact, we see why the time for the debate was shortened just before.... not at the time of Gobzem's speech, but just before Members' quotas. In fact, at this point, we started to light up all the things why many of these quotas are not included in the Cabinet... Decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers. Highlight this quota for true... the situation and inform the public and inform each other and perhaps convince each other of good proposals - we can only do this if we can debate quality. Reduce Members' speaking time just before we talk about quotas for coalition groups - it is very unfair to the Saeima, to our colleagues and, as we hear, also to coalition colleagues who cannot speak. Please combine the times of the debate. I didn't have such a need for the whole budget... also, at the time when we were talking about accompanying draft laws, about their proposals - to ask for a combination of the times of the debate. This time we cannot normally speak out, tell our colleagues to understand. We also heard nothing like... What Artus Neimins talked about... that during the debate we are coming to many, possibly other information than we have read in the press. In cases on which I was prepared not to vote in the past, I am now prepared to support certain positions because it is necessary because I am in the Cabinet of Ministers... we see certain specific problems with some political forces, and this is what the public is suffering. It is not the position or the opposition that is suffering from you reducing the time for the debate. Society, Latvia's development suffers from this; we also saw this in the matter of these new companies. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for a firm return to the normal examination of the agenda, to the normal time for the debate, that is, five minutes, speaking for the first time, and, if necessary, two minutes, on the second time, so that we can make a qualitative assessment of our country... The most important law of 2022 - the state budget. And in this case, we are also talking about the medium-term budget, which is about the years to come. Therefore, colleagues, request: we return to the normal time of the debate so that we can have a proper debate, including on parliamentary quotas, which are plus minus... This does not mean that we will reject them all. As we can see, we can also support many, both the position and the opposition, so that we can work qualitatively, so that we have fair information against each other, so that Parliament provides absolutely fair and democratic information to our society. Therefore, my fellow Members, we are returning to the normal time and order of the debate. Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U329	Thank you to the speaker. Colleagues, we must vote on this proposal. I call on you not to wonder when I will read this proposal. Perhaps it makes a mistake, but the speaker also... whether the proposer did not correct it either... I am sorry, Mr Valaiņa, you wanted to speak against this proposal?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U330	Yes, I will speak against this proposal. ( Pause) Can I speak against this proposal?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U331	You are the proposer and therefore call for this proposal, I understand, also to move forward and to support it. Are you going to talk 'no'?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U332	‘Pret’.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U333	Okay. Then it is another strangeness in relation to this proposal. ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U334	Given that there is some kind of strangeness around this proposal, according to Mrs Mūrniece, perhaps there is, and that could be one of the reasons why this proposal should not be supported either. But, as my colleague, Mr Tatar, has tried to convince all the other colleagues, I can only join in this speech by Mr Tadar, as Mr Tadar said, that there is a need for a debate on the substance, so that we can discuss these issues, which are linked to these specific proposals, which already constitute the accompanying law, these texts, but certain figures. What exactly did politicians want to change precisely in this numerical section? As we can see, a number of Members, whether they come from a coalition or opposition, cannot be able to speak within the time decided by the Saeima. I mean, this time is a little bit like not enough. Next... When I look at the draft budget, I think that we are not even close to those more important issues. In these three days we have talked about accompanying laws, but we have not yet started to talk, we have only a little, a little touch on the doctors, someone may have mentioned some nurses, but in essence about the medical pay, the hospital budgets, the field of education, the seniors, how this budget is going to be divided, we are not even close to it, we have not even even started to debate it. Symbolically, this time for reducing the debate came just before Members' quotas. And it's interesting, maybe really fellow Members really don't have anything to say about this, but those other issues that are just coming in need of a serious debate in the Saeima, because they were not debated by the Saeima Commission. Therefore, we should not be surprised that we are asking for this extension of the debate. This is absolutely normal, because if these issues were to be debated within the committee responsible, these issues would not require such a long debate at the parliamentary sitting. In this case, however, during the previous government period, the committee responsible was, in substance, debated. At the moment, the hat leaves Mr Bondara, he gave everyone the floor, and he gave the floor to everyone who wanted to. Only those who expressed themselves, they already asked questions, came with proposals, they called for the words of the ministries, the ministries of the sectors, I did it myself, only they were not there. They weren't there already. They were not there even, but other commissions did not really have a debate, because the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is responsible, but you can speak in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, but you could not expect a coherent response to your statements. That is not what I am saying, it is also what others are saying. Independent experts who have followed this process point to this. But, colleagues, I have applied to speak against, even though I am the rapporteur for this proposal. Therefore, colleagues, if you do not want to hear the substantive debate on health, on medical salaries, on the salaries of educational staff, on our seniors, on pensions, if you do not want to hear the substance of this debate and if you do not have enough motivation to defend your proposals, please vote against the motion put forward by these Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U335	Thank you, colleagues. So one Member has spoken 'for', one Member has spoken 'no'. Once again, I will ask you not to be surprised, because it seems to me that the applicants may have made a little mistake, but do not be surprised, at the same time I have to read this proposal exactly as it has been submitted. Dear colleagues, So Members are asking for a period of debate: five minutes, speaking for the first time, and two minutes, speaking for the second time... on the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2022, 2023 and 2024 and... Draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2022, 2023 and 2024. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the proposal to set a period of debate of five minutes for the first time and two minutes for the second time... on the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2022, 2023 and 2024 and... Draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2022, 2023 and 2024. Please vote mode! It's not about - 32, it's against - 52, it's not. The proposal is therefore not supported. And so we're staying at the time of the debate: for the first time, I say two minutes, and for the second time one minute. Mr Bondara, we shall continue to work on the next proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U336	No break?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U337	It won't be.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U338	Okay. Well, let's work. 39. - The proposal by Jura Juša, Raivja Dzintara, Ainara Latkovska, Jura Puces and Ata Zakaistova. Supported by the Commission. In the Commission Vjačeslav Dombrovskis asked whether this society had approached the Ministry of Economics, or... As we can see, support in this budget is being requested here. Request to support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U339	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U340	Madam President, Colleagues and colleagues! In view of the increase in the budget, which, of course, increases our overall deficit, it is obvious that the Ministry of Economics has at least the fourth largest allocation of 47,7 million, and without supporting applicants' pride with success, but in support of the fact that really new businesses should be supported as a movement to the Ministry of Economics, there is indeed a question (and I think that the answer could be given here): could the Ministry of Economics, out of its 47,7 million, which has been given extra, really could not find funding to support the movement of new businesses accordingly? Together, these 60 thousand recognised by Mr Znotiņš would then, even within the parliamentary quotas, be given for the preparation of medical assistants, and they would be 12 medical assistants who, together with the parliamentary quotas I have spoken about, would already provide funding for the preparation of 27 medical assistants, which would really help solve health problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U341	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U342	Colleagues, this proposal, 39, also calls for money to be allocated to the development of a start-up ecosystem. I agree with those colleagues who said earlier that together these four proposals... the amounts in these four proposals are not large; they are, however, I must say to this... Well, let's say, this money is also very important for this sector, because most of these people, in parallel to their work, where they work day and night to make their businesses more successful, voluntarily work in the Latvian Association of Young Enterprises or in another association and volunteer... time without any consideration. Therefore, I have thought more of these proposals, of course, as a support for which the representatives of this ecosystem are very pleased, but the main aim of these proposals is to really draw the attention of both Members of the Saeima and the representatives of the relevant ministries to the fact that there is great potential here, this is a way in which the country of Latvia can stay richer, how its citizens can stay richer, how we can promote our exporter and also achieve many other good things. That is why I am calling for this to be borne in mind and for this funding to be diverted from the relevant ministries in the future, so that the development of start-ups is indeed more visible, louder, with better results and ultimately more valuable for the whole Latvian people, so that we can pay very good salaries to doctors so that we can pay very good wages to teachers and other public sector workers who need it. So I am also calling for this support. Thank you, colleagues, for listening.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U343	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U344	President-in-Office. Colleagues! I have a question for Mr. Znotiņš. Listening to your arguments, of course, it is absolutely clear that the author of these proposals is you, together with the Latvian Association of Young Enterprises and other non-governmental organisations working on this issue. That is why I ask you why you did not sign these proposals yourself? Why are you not the proposer yourself, but you have to hide in a way behind Ainara Latkovsky, Juris Pouces? Why such an approach in this budget that at least raises questions to me. And also raises questions for other colleagues who are trying to tell them that they are some group proposals, all groups proposals. They are not all factions, they are very concrete... Member Reinis Znotiņš speaks on a question he has always addressed... It is no surprise, strange, that it is not included in the general budget of the Ministry of Economics. It may also be a stone in your own place that you have failed to persuade the Minister for Economic Affairs to make policies so that these things are at the very core and we can already talk about the basic budget of the Ministry of Economics, which could perhaps be larger or more. Well, that's a problem. But we see in this situation that there is an obvious author of the proposal, but formally, as presented in this proposal, Latkovsky, Pūce, Zakaitistov, Dzintars and Jušas acted. Well, I still understand Jurash, but those other colleagues I don't understand what they're doing when they put these... just postmen, nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U345	The name to Member Rainis Znotiņš for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U346	In response to Mr Valaiņa's question, I wanted to thank the coalition Members, the group leaders who saw meaning in these proposals and who also supported them, as well as the other coalition colleagues who saw it as a meaningful use of money, and have supported these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U347	The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U348	Colleagues! Maybe we're a little... Let's not deceive each other. It was not about meaningful proposals here that suddenly everyone would like to support the coalition. It was just a quota system. Every coalition party that currently represents this government had a certain amount of money allocated, plus, which is not yet spoken of, no one has spoken about, nor has the journalist said, in these quotas, which we will vote on next, there are also the so-called people in favour of the Stability Group, or Kariņš, who are receiving, writing the quota. And these quotas can be found under signatures, where Zakaistov is, we only need to look; we will certainly get there. Of course, these are all the people who have supported Karini... I have not yet found what each of them has received, how many quotas there are, but at least for now I have found one person... But I have a question about what the Ministry of Economics has done, especially this year? I have also stressed that this municipality wave was already expected and expected in the autumn. And the Ministry of Economics has done nothing to make entrepreneurs feel safe and to know what support mechanisms they would have to receive right now... On November 15, when the lockdown was lifted and many businessmen were closed for a month. How, then, will they continue to live? Likewise, there is no answer to the question of how people will receive their wages at the moment? I ask for the time of the debate to be combined.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U349	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U350	There are many different issues, and also what the Ministry of Economics consumes... Cannot ask... just like myself, I have called this Ministry of Economics' information phone, precisely on LIAA, and I ask about the epidemiological restrictions on entrepreneurs, green areas that can work, what the restrictions are. Even the LIAA was unable to answer many questions. It is only a few hours later that it was called upon to consult the Ministry of Economics. That's the chaos that's happening there right now. It is not a secret, and this can be seen as well: when the Minister for Economic Affairs is asked a painful question, he is, of course, on the business side, on the people's side, but it ends by saying that the next cooperation meeting will discuss it, and these issues are simply rejected. The theme of Topa is now the markets, or it will or will not happen at Christmas, but I think that the main problem we need to talk about right now is support for entrepreneurs, employees and electricity prices, which is very important, because each one of us will feel this price increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U351	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U352	I would like to say to Mr Znotiņš that you may not understand the situation. I think you could say thank you to these colleagues even if you had put forward a proposal to support the same initiative, just instead of these associations to mention the association of producers and traders in Jelgava... to ensure the functioning of this association... is a very talented association. In my opinion, very strong people in this organization are huge added value, members of this organization not only make up Jelgava, but also the economy of Latvia as a whole. And they would also deserve some financial support for their activities, but the only reason they don't have, but for these, is that you are in a coalition, but these organisations, let us say, are not political friends at the moment in a coalition. That is the only reason why these proposals are supported, but other proposals are not supported. Unfortunately, these are quotas and nothing else. That is why they are also being supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U353	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U354	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that the 39th proposal was supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U355	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 39. - the proposal by Members Jušas, Dzintara, Latkovska, Puces and Zakatistov! Please, let's vote! For - 70, for - 4, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U356	40. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U357	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U358	41. - also a proposal from the Cabinet of Ministers. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U359	Members want to vote on proposal 41. Please call me! We will vote for 41. - A proposal from the Cabinet! Please, let's vote! No, 69, against and refrains. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U360	42. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U361	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 42. - The Cabinet's proposal! Please, let's vote! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U362	43. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U363	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 43. - The Cabinet's proposal! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U364	44. - The proposal of MEPs Papule and Pucen. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U365	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen. ( Pause) Mr. Girgen, we don't see you and we can't hear you. ( Pause)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U366	I'm so sorry... Colleagues, this proposal provides for additional funding for the Ministry of the Interior and... directly to provide additional funding for the increase in police salaries. It is no secret that the Ministry of the Interior currently employs more than 15 thousand employees, who are responsible for our security. In recent years, especially in these last two years, when the crisis in this community has taken place, one of the most important - even priority - sectors is the area of health, which has been left in a state of hunger for several years. And now there is every effort to recover what has been overdue by investing large financial resources. However, there is no secret - nor in the area of home affairs at the moment are those easier times. We can look at... At present, too, this crisis of migrants, where Poland is more affected, of course, but we need to be vigilant at any moment. And one moment can come when we're also about the same border guards... The border guards may even have this equipment, the security is not in the same best position. And the remuneration system for fire-fighters, police, border guards is not at the level that we can demand the performance of quality works. I will first call for the time to be extended, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U367	The debate time is combined.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U368	And for all of us... with all the possibilities, try to help this sector, which has also been recognised by the President of Latvia, Kariņš, but these words have not been followed by significant additional funding, which should be provided by this Ministry. I can now take Estonia as an example: Estonia has a total budget of EUR 634 million, while Latvia has just over 400 million. We all know that Latvia has a much larger population than Estonia, but our budget is many times smaller. Therefore, one of these proposals from me is to re-allocate funding from the cultural field, because in the field of culture (looking at the common European background, how much funding is allocated), Latvia ranks first in Europe with this funding, which is invested from the total edition... and also from gross domestic product. I therefore call on you to support my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U369	Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U370	Good afternoon! You really don't understand... I ask you to combine the two times.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U371	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U372	This proposal does not really understand - what its meaning is. Meeting the cultural workers with the police? Implement the great principle of subtracting one and giving the other? The opposition has talked so much about the fact that pointless money has been put into irons, buton, then it would have been looking for programs to find this money without taking away certain employees. And then I have to explain this refinanced cultural funding. If it is counted together in the budget - both state and local government funding, European Union funding and other international funds - then it may seem very huge, but if we look at this state budget funding, I will immediately tell you what the huge wages are in this particular programme, from which it appears that the real author of the proposal, Mr Ģirgens, is going to draw off these cultural workers. So the cultural heritage programme - wages, even increasing this allocation... the average salary is EUR 1431. Well, then you can figure out whether it's a lot or a little. Then I have time, I understand?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U373	You still have a minute.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U374	Yeah. Then take account of the fact that the total additional allocation that has been granted from EUR 1237 to EUR 1431, on paper, should also be withdrawn in the implementation of this proposal. And then the question is: which of these institutions are the applicants going to take away - is the National Library of Latvia or the Library of the Blind of Latvia? Because someone will then have to take away and leave this salary supplement. What will that be? Latvian National History Museum, Riga's History...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U375	Thank you. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U376	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Mr Janson, I appreciate your willingness to speak and, above all, to stand up for the interests of the Ministry of Culture. I understand your indignation very well, but in principle I cannot agree with you in the part where you are calling for no division, not to take away one to give the other, because that, Mr Janson, is exactly what the state and the government are doing and what this government has done, including. Or, for example, if we are talking about the whole part of the budget of EUR 12 billion on which it was built... Is it not built on the fact that it has been deducted from Latvian citizens, taxpayers, in the form of taxes? This has not been done quite voluntarily, Mr Janson. Criminality is provided for tax evasion. And also during the budget process, decisions are made which taxes are raised. So when it was... For example, a year ago, this government decided to increase taxes... I ask you to combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U377	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U378	... to increase taxes on the self-employed, including cultural people, I do not remember whether there would be any major objection on your part when the money was taken away from these people. Only a year ago, this government decided to withdraw money from municipalities, and it is very likely that this money has now been redeployed by the Ministry of Culture. Then, so to say, welcome to the real world! This is happening all the time, Mr. Janson! So here, if we're talking about the Ministry of Culture's budget... The Ministry of Culture now has a budget of 220 million. Is that a little bit of it? A lot? That, of course, depends on our point of reference. For someone it will look not enough for someone if we compare it to sport, for example, then sports funding, now I get it from my head... It is certainly very far from EUR 220 million per year. Sport funding is closer to EUR 20-30 million a year, Mr Janson. And there was a time, by the way, when sports funding (very long) was about on the same level as cultural funding. So we need to make decisions about the priority, about what is...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U379	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U380	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that the 44th proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U381	Please call me! To be put to the vote on 44. - The proposal of the MEPs Papule and Pucen! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U382	45. - the proposal of colleagues Papule and Pucence. Also for redistribution from the Ministry of Culture to the Ministry of the Interior. And the Commission is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U383	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U384	I will call for the time to be joined up.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U385	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U386	I will try to prove a little by the facts and data that the field of culture is now refinanced to us in Latvia. I can mention, though, that every year, almost automatically, 10 per cent of the previous budget is allocated extra. That's at least 10 percent. And this year, another 30 million are allocated, which cannot be proud of even the Ministry of the Interior. And if we look at the next few years, even the Ministry of the Interior will reduce funding, but even more... So 2.8 per cent is funding for cultural services from total public expenditure in 2018. These data were available for 2018. So in terms of money, it is less than EUR 316 million, together with municipal funding. The fact that Latvia has been a stable leader not only in 2018, but also in the past is reflected in Eurostat data. In Latvia, expenditure on culture in the general budget ranges from 2.5 to 3.2 per cent of total expenditure. In the European Union, it is only 0.9 to 1 percent. If cultural expenditure is seen as part of GDP, we are in second place with 1.1 percent of Hungary, which has 1.3 percent, while in the European Union it is about 0.4 percent of GDP. So, as Vjačeslav Dombrovskis said, 221 million euros are already being allocated this year. And here, it is still important to compare what its priorities are in Europe as a whole. So much less, for example, is devoted to social protection in Latvia; on average, 40 percent of public expenditure is allocated for this purpose in the European Union, while Latvia has 10 percent less here. And we're in one of the last places in healthcare, too. In 2018, investments accounted for 10.4 per cent of all public and municipal expenditure, or about five per cent less than the EU average. I therefore wanted to tell you that we need to understand what our priorities are: the area of health, the area of home affairs or the field of culture. We will always feel that wages are too low, but that is why a minister is meant, whose task is to understand these priorities and directions where the ministry should operate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U387	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U388	Colleagues! I... Even though... Indeed, it would not be the person who would support the reallocation of resources from the cultural sector, because indeed this sector also suffered very significantly from restrictions. Additional tax burdens have also been imposed on royalties working in this area, which also makes their income levels less competitive and less competitive. But there is one important thing here, because colleagues also offer to provide funding to the voluntary fire-fighters' association. I'm sorry... the Society wrote letters and turned to all the Members of the Saeima, but heard them by colleagues from the “Republic”, which is very welcome. Unfortunately, the Ministry of the Interior did not hear this association and did not understand its needs and importance. I think that quite a lot of people die in fires and fires. And I think that it is precisely funding (in order also to ensure competitive funding for the voluntary fire-fighters' society) that could save lives. And then the question arises: do we really have a priority... because I would personally direct resources to address these problems - namely to meet the needs of the voluntary fire-fighter's Society - from the renovation of the Saeima building, which is planned to be around EUR 34 million, because... What is, after all, more important and more important: the lives of people, saving them from the fires and the risks associated directly with this disaster, or the comfort of the Saeima Members at an elevated level and making such a major investment in infrastructure, including the infrastructure of the Saeima, which, unfortunately, has not ensured a decent quality of life for the population? That is why I will support the proposal of these colleagues, despite...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U389	Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U390	Dear Members, Honourable Members! It has to be said in the defence of the cultural sector that, compared to the countries of Western Europe, which were also mentioned in statistics, there has not been any development of this kind of mecenaticism of the cultural sector in Latvia. It's a baby's nappies and will not develop in the near future. And in view of this fact, when culture has been severely affected by bans, then there is only logical state support for culture and, as Mr. Girgens has already called on the Minister to take care of wages, so our Minister is also doing so, not, for example, taking care of voluntary fire-fighters' salaries... but in this case, when returning to the specific proposal, it is proposed to take money for the “Art and Literature” programme. Please combine both times...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U391	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U392	So this programme provides a contemporary art creative process in Latvia... and “promoting access to professional art for all Latvians, as well as ensuring the international movement of professional art in Latvia” – this is the essence of this. It should be borne in mind that this programme has already been reduced by three million and 509 thousand euros for next year. Well, I would also ask, for example, their true signatories, Mr. Pucens, to explain to their voters in Kurzeme why the Liepaja Symphony Orchestra should take away the salary. Does music make it difficult, is it bad to play, or does the head hurt in the morning, listening to such music?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U393	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U394	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that the 45th proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U395	Please call me! We'll vote for 45. - the proposal put forward by Members Papule and Pucen! Please, let's vote! It's not about 19, it's against 52, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U396	46. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U397	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U398	47. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U399	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 47. - The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 68, against and refrains - not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U400	48. - The proposal of MEPs Papule and Pucen. Distributed from the Ministry of Culture in favour of the Ministry of the Interior... This is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U401	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 48. - The proposal of the MEPs Papule and Pucen! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 20, it's against - 51, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U402	49. - An offer from the MEPs Evija Papule and Erika Pucen. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U403	Please, call! We will vote for 49. - The proposal of the MEPs Papule and Pucen! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U404	50. - Also the proposal from Members Evija Papule and Erika Pucen. It is planned to re-allocate funding from the Ministry of Culture to the Ministry of the Interior. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U405	Please call me! Let's vote for 50. - The proposal of the MEPs Papule and Pucen! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U406	51. - also the proposal from MEPs Papule and Pucen. It is planned to re-allocate from the Ministry of Culture to the Ministry of the Interior... This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U407	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U408	Yes, Vjačeslav Dombrovskis, you are President of the party and for this proposal, 51, which your party members have submitted, can you explain to me? I simply do not understand - either there is a desire to destroy Latvian culture, because this is already an entire proposal from your party members that promotes it... Well, if they were in principle supported... Do not give God to prevent culture in Latvia... Wouldn't be at all! So, what is this about, Mr. Dombrovskis? I... Thank you for your application. Explain, please, because I think this is a clear counter-state in this way - from such means to the Ministry of the Interior. I thought you understood my idea... What do I mean. Thank you. Vjačeslav, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U409	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U410	President-in-Office (Speak defect.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U411	Wait a minute, wait a minute! There are technical problems here. Just a minute. Headphones inside your computer? Let's try again? ( Internouncing call.) Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U412	Or (A sound defect.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-17-PT13-2324-U413	No, colleagues, there are technical problems. No, no, there are technical difficulties. Colleagues, so our technicians are asking for a break of 10 to 15 minutes. But Members of Puce, Bauman, Zamur, Stein and Liepkalns are asking to declare a break at the parliamentary extraordinary sitting of 15 November this year, continuing on 17 November this year - so to announce a break by 9 a.m. 22 November this year. So, I understand, we still need a time of 10 to 15 minutes, and then we could work for a very short time. Colleagues, we have to vote on this! So we will be voting on a break until 9 a.m. on 22 November this year, when we will continue to work on the draft budget. Please call me! Let us vote for a break until 9 a.m. on November 22, this year! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 74, it's against - 5, it's not. Ladies and gentlemen, so let us continue on Monday at 9.00 on 22 November this year. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. Good evening! ( Interruption)
