ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2178-U1	Dear colleagues, Let us begin the fourth remote emergency sitting on 7 January 2021. On the agenda for the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, trust or distrust. Draft decision on the expression of trust to the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavluts. Name to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2178-U2	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Dear Members, Honourable Members! Today I have come to you to support Mr Pavlut's approval of the next Minister for Health. To my colleagues... Development/About! I called for a young, energetic person with whom we could all join forces to defeat our opponent, the Covid-19 pandemic, and to bring our country out of this crisis. Daniel Paviluts is a person with good political experience, both in the Saeima and in the government. I met him about 10 years ago – when he was an economic minister, but I was a Member of the European Parliament and we worked together on various energy issues of that time. Today I have met him to talk specifically about the challenges that we have in the healthcare system, and specifically about this pandemic. And I can say that what I heard from Mr Pavļuta is very much in line with what I think: that we, as a country, have to look for how to be more proactive, and that, in fact, its main priority at the moment is to adopt and implement one clear vaccination plan, where we put the maximum emphasis on a faster pace and, of course, very much clarity for society, as all this will happen. It is very important that the Minister can not only communicate and cooperate well with his ministry, with the industry, but also speak very clearly, defend and explain his views to the general public. When I know Mr Pavļuta, I think that this really is one very suitable and good candidate. I think that he is in every way fully ready to start this work and he will not start from scratch, he will start with a great deal of experience. For those who could ask whether the Minister for Health... whether it is necessary for the Saeima to direct the candidate, who is not himself a medical professional or a particular health professional, I would say that it should be remembered now and at all that the minister is a political figure that leads the ministry from a political point of view. Any ministry, including the Ministry of Health, is full of very good and qualified specialists, but the Minister's task is to guide these specialists so that they work on clear goals set by the Minister. And I think that is exactly what Mr Pavļuta has. I think that he will be able to work well with his ministry, and I am also convinced that he will be able to work very well outside, explaining to the public what he is doing, explaining to people the need for vaccination, the non-dangerousness of vaccination, and helping us, as the next Minister of Health, to bring our country out of this pandemic together. So, colleagues, I call on you to support Mr Pavlut for the Minister for Health and to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2178-U3	Thank you to the Prime Minister. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2178-U4	Dear colleagues, If public support is not received in elections, then it is very naive to wait afterwards. Therefore, I am not surprised that Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš has signed an order to release Ilze Viņķele, Minister of Health, and has called on the Party Association for Development/About! to appoint a new candidate for the post of Minister for Health, whose approval will have to be decided by the Saeima today. However, the Prime Minister's actions show, in my opinion, a shift of responsibility on one side. Ilze Viņķele is another bone left by the people to distract attention from much more important things. Mr Kariņš' accusations show that he himself does not effectively coordinate the work of the government. This is also reflected in the discussions in the government, to put it mildly. A complex approach is still lacking to address the crisis. The various prohibitions and restrictions must be rationally justified and understandable to people. The Prime Minister did not look particularly convincing when he announced Ms Viņķele's resignation. This is essential because we all need a government that speaks an open, direct and honest language. But now, despite the lack of knowledge in the field of health, a member of the Saeima, Daniel Pavulut, is being directed to the office of Minister for Health. I believe that this is a step of despair from the party association Development/About! parties showing a lack of specialists in this political power. I would also like to remind you, by the way, that Development/About! He promised to double the salaries of nurses before the elections. Good luck! However, it would be better to support a professional and competent person who has a sense of mind, who is a medicine and how to manage the sector properly. But unfortunately 13. This does not happen in the family. Unfortunately, the sermon, when it was necessary to abandon the principle of political inserts and to place in office a knowledgeable professional, was not used. Where and what has Mr Pavļuta achieved precisely in the medical sector so that he can be considered to be eligible for ministerial post? When will the industries in Latvia be managed by professionals? I am not sure that Mr. Pavļuta will be the authority of the medical profession. It makes sense to change ministers if the system itself does not change. I express my deepest sympathy to all the craftsman Daniel Pavilut. We're not together right now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2178-U5	Name to Member Daniel Pavilut.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2178-U6	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues and colleagues! To be honest, I have a similar feeling tonight, as if I were going to go to war. There's a terrible situation in our country. Today, 36 people have died, 1374 young people with Covid-19 infection. We are so far at the worst point of the pandemic. The doctors are in the epicenter of the pandemic. Thank you to doctors, doctors' assistants, sisters, all those who, despite the great burden, often fight for us all on the verge of exhaustion – each one of us. Medicals need and will be given the support of myself and, I am sure, of all our politicians. I will meet medical organisations, social and government partners in the near future in order to approve a constant course of health policy and to continue this joint work in the fight against the pandemic. The dialogue with the sector will be my daily. It is an integral part of crisis management, as well as communication, public consultation about what we know, and public communication about what we do not know yet. My deepest conviction is that we need to move towards truly accessible healthcare for all people. Health care must not be subject to either wealth or the ability to communicate in good time with a friend on public health services that are not available in good time. Health care must be available regardless of income or location. The pandemic has only exacerbated this situation. Covid–19 has deepened inequality in Latvian society. From this evening, from tomorrow, my first and main priority in the work of the Minister of Health will be to increase the pace of vaccination and ensure people's participation so that, at the rate of vaccination, we will be able to vaccinate all the people of Latvia who want it as soon as possible. Everyone needs to be aware – vaccination is our light at the end of the tunnel (Sound break.) ... the usual day. This is the moment I want to say a huge thank you to Ilze Viņķelis. I think she was an excellent health minister and she has done an incredible job. I will continue the work of Ilze, and her course, based on expert knowledge and scientific knowledge, will not change. This is a difficult and decisive moment for the country. Let us be responsible, and together we will get out of the pandemic stronger. I want Latvia to swim as a smart, modern and just state and people to regain confidence in the ability of politicians to manage the state. I'm aware that before it gets better, it'll probably get worse. I want to work together – together with Prime Minister Kariņš, his government, ministries, parliamentary position and opposition – against all of you. We're all gonna get over together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2178-U7	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2178-U8	Good evening, Latvian people! Good evening, colleagues! I have just listened to the speech of the future Minister, Daniel Pavilut, and seeing that the Minister almost started to cry and promised to introduce it, in fact to continue with the beginnings of Viņķele, that is, it is quite clear that I will vote against it. But the main thing I want to emphasise is this – we have a crisis, we have the biggest crisis in history. Everyone recognises it, also Kariņš admits it, as well as Paviluts admits it. And what are we doing? We are today putting a musician as a minister in health care, where the biggest crisis is. Or then Development/About! Is there no doctor in the lot? Or are these doctors too incompetent? I can't understand now. Why will a musician be better than a doctor Skride? Why, for example, will the musician be better than Dr. Duritis? That's the first thing. The second thing that just surprises me today. Instead of today from the same party, Development/About! parties where Viņķele was, Pavluts in his speech (for 15 minutes he had time) would tell the public clearly and clearly what the vaccination plan is – so that every Astrid in Jēkabpils and Kuldīga would understand – we say that only something will be evaluated. Where is the plan, the future Minister? It needs to be known to the general public, and it has already been known in the days of Viņķelis. If you want to carry out your duties, I can explain to you how you do it in other countries – as in Estonia, as in Israel, as in Austria, for example. It happens that in every village, every parish, in every parish, everyone knows a specific date and a specific moment when people are invited to vaccination if you already say that vaccination is the only means. It does so in these countries. Number one. So the only real plan that is what you had to do was to say on what date the whole public will find out that we will receive a message, a letter, an email with an invitation. When will it be? A year later? Two? Three? Ten? While you're going to decide there and kick your tears... That's what our neighbour does. It does so in a country where millions of people are vaccinated from day to day. Not buying too few vaccines on which you are putting all the high expectations. You have hope, not me, but you, those in power. That's another thing. I do not, of course, believe that the Pavlut is able to pull out the health sector, because, even as an economic minister, we know how Pavlut went on with the abolition of the OIC, how many permits were issued or cancelled at that time, and what is the result of such a minister at that time. That will not work, dear friends! And in this particular context, I have to tell you all the following: you need to know two things. First: There is no plan in Latvia – neither how to vaccinate its population, nor how to return to normal life. There is a bureaucratic paper that says it would be great to vaccinate, but our Cabinet of Ministers has no plan in general and the new Minister has no plan to do it in real terms. That, by the way, is not just my view of radical Gobzem. Even the establishment, or power, now recognizes it... Viņķele and Karin's colleagues. This means that you, the public, hoped that the situation in the country would normalize this year. But it won't happen! You must forget that. If you were hoping to resume your business, recover lost income, normally educate your children by visiting your loved ones, then know that this will not happen in 2021. I'm telling you that honestly. Listen to this and say thank you both to Viņķelis and Kariņš, and you can say thank you also to Mr Pavļuta. If you are accustomed, dear viewer, your anger goes out by shouting or striking dishes (and I think it is the right moment at the moment), then this is the moment when it should be done, and when you are calmed down, this Parliament will have to be released. The other thing. There is no better plan in Latvia at the moment. I have read the Kariņš plan and can assure you that it is fully in line with the functioning of the bureaucratic apparatus in Latvia and how Latvian officials see the world and the order of things from their offices. Pavilut has also come out of office. He thinks exactly the same way. I mean, how does this happen? This happens as follows: money will be distributed, something will be purchased, then family doctors will handle something themselves. This is, after all, their task and their job. ‘ It is not our competence!” - so they think... power thinks so. And exactly the same way, for example, thinks in education. ‘ Let us come up with different rules for epidemiological security, and teachers are not our competence to figure out how to comply with them." So they could all think, because it's the thinking system that is built. We have heard a speech from the potential minister. Did you hear any specific dates there? A concrete plan that can be understood by society as a whole? He's from the same party as Viņķelis. He has to be clear about... education. He has doctors in the party who could very clearly give advice on how to do all of this in 15 minutes... Could have five more... To present to the general public, in 20 minutes, a clear plan of what will be done. This was not done from the parliamentary tribunal. It was like... tearing off of tears. Again, it is surprising that he did not get up and miss the doctors. This usually happens when nothing can be accepted. It is therefore clear that there will be no better plan. It's not there and it won't be! What will be the document on such a level as salad scheme research with cut cucumber or decorticated beer, on which yesterday the whole society laughed, nirdza, I would like to say – nirdza... about which half a million were thrown out... In my opinion, it is time to change it, dear society! And the time to change it is now! We live now! We are no longer living, and we cannot afford to live up to the promises of the future, as we will and how we will. We need to live now and we need to tackle the problem now with a concrete plan. And your, company, plan at this particular moment can only be one – you have to release the parliament... Now, without fear of what will be, because these will not be done. Then, the next thing you have to do – don't vote on these again. I hope you don't have the memory that's holding a hundredth of a second. I wish the Parisians success and success also to the public relations specialist who has not led anything more than four people in his life, and I can extend my compassion to the health workers and the people of Latvia. During the crisis, our health care system, which is on the brink of collapse, will be led by a musician, not a medicalian. That's great! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2178-U9	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2178-U10	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Two things on behalf of the Greens/Farmers Union. The first thing I would like to say is that I thank the government for... and coalition... to a certain extent that they responded promptly. Now that is what we, as the Union of Greens/farmers, have also called for the immediate direction of the Minister for Health. But this story will not be about Mr. Pavļuta or his experience or some other personal qualities, but about the situation, as presented today, at this moment, the potential Minister of Health. The Prime Minister made it clear and clear that he also publicly told the whole people that the fight against the community is now one of his priorities. The Prime Minister arranged four minutes to tell you how well and personally he knows Daniel Pavilut, how good he is, but here is no story about Daniel Pavilut. Here is a story about the problem in the country that we have to find a solution together. There must be a clear plan of how we will get out of this crisis when vaccines are available, when all the risk groups start to be vaccinated, because what we hear is that by the end of January, only those who work with the community will probably be vaccinated. Will there be 60-80 percent by the end of summer or July by August? And what is now from various e-mails that wander around... It is not a plan, colleagues, it is a certain strategy, but it is not a concrete plan, and unfortunately nothing as a potential new Minister for Health, Mr Pavļuta, spoke for three minutes and 24 seconds and told me how terrible this community is and how to fight it. We see this, we see both the sick and the dead every day, but what we expect is a concrete plan. When will there be vaccines on dates, how much has it been ordered? Which groups will receive vaccination at what point? Which points? Who's gonna do it? If not, who does it, what is the plan to attract specialists from the private sector or from abroad? What are the ideas, what are the proposals? The fact that we're now at the community's epicentre... We can't yet know... Perhaps this community epicenter is still standing in front and may be much, much worse. So, colleagues, well... And even more – when you hear that the new Minister for Health says that he will continue the previous Minister... We saw and understood very well that Mr. Karin asked for the demission, not for any other reason, but only for the coalition's dissent or disagreement. There's no room for disgust or disagreement here, colleagues. If we continue, as is the case, it is clear that nothing will change and will not be better left, so the Board and the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union have adopted... not to participate in this farce today and not to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2178-U11	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2178-U12	Dear colleagues, Mr Pavļuta as one of the ministers, former ministers, who used to sign the documents without reading and then wonder what he had signed... We remember, there was the Waste Management Act, and then, of course, probably we do not understand what he told us today – that he will continue the work undertaken by Mrs. Viņķele, the course started. In fact, it is true that Mr Pavļuta's words might suggest that he will also continue to call on the State Council for Immunisation to vaccine manufacturers, that he will continue to buy a variety of useless personal protective equipment, masks which, probably because of the use of which doctors continue to infect themselves, that he will actually continue this course that has begun, which has resulted, as we see, in full chaos. What I want to say... I very often hear from the representatives of this party mention death statistics, and I would like to remind the future potential Minister for Health (also in his speech he mentioned again the people who died today) that the death of people is not part of your behaviour. They must not be part of your behavior. They must not be one of your PR measures so you once again want to buy something. You can't trade this death, use human death statistics to just say a nice speech. Yeah, we've got so many people out of nothing today. The death of these people is a tragedy, firstly, for their families and secondly for the state. And you don't have any right to appeal to these deaths every time you don't have a laziness to do it, just to try to convince another person who may not have wanted to put a mask or vaccinate. You do not have the right, because you have not even thought for any time that, first of all, when you try to enter the office of Minister for Health, you should apologize to the general public for what your predecessor has worked for, for the deaths you are currently trading and playing with, for the deaths of doctors, you should apologize as well, for the fact that they are likely to have used the wrong personal means of protection purchased. But you do not have the courage to do so, you only have to say a speech before the computer once again and hope for the vote of your colleagues. I would, of course, regrettably not be able to trust you as a Minister for Health. I call for no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2178-U13	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2178-U14	Dear Latvian society! You see, at this time, that our country is governed... they are not even mediocre, they are invincible. The Prime Minister had an hour to speak in the debate in the Saeima. He told us in four minutes, as Mr Tatar rightly said, that he knew Pavilut well, not within an hour as a real leader, as a real head of state would say by points that will be done. Points of limitation on epidemiological safety: Snakes may not buy foils or tights and children’s gloves. What does it bring? And if children's gloves can't be bought, the number of patients is not higher. But we do not have a prime minister capable of taking responsibility for the health sector. He is not at all capable of taking responsibility for any sector. He says Pabrik has to go now, Pabrik is afraid there, refused. The Prime Minister does not understand because he does not know what the vaccination plan is. Prime Minister doesn't know! Who should know then, if not the Prime Minister? Nor does he know, he will only appreciate, meet and listen to experts – now! He had to be ready today. After this sitting we all had to get, including to me, even if I don't want to... receive a text message or an e-mail, on which date there will be and with which vaccine... where I have to appear in the office at which I have to appear. Dear Heads of State in all countries where they do so! How long you're gonna talk that empty talk to serious faces without saying anything. This isn't time for nothing. It can be spoken in a time of peace. Now there are no times of peace, now there is the biggest crisis in the history of the country – one that has never been. Mr. Karins, show me, please, that you are a real leader, that you can... that you can finally do something consistent and say something to the public so that they can be clear about how we will live in 2021! Tell me why you are making a musician, not a doctor, not the best doctor in Latvia. Mr. Karins, don't be afraid, get up in the party! You can talk again for an hour. Be a leader, overcome your presumptuousness! Because of your incapacity, those people die. Because of your incapacity, people are unemployed, and all these restrictions are due to your incapacity. Because of your inability, we have Pfizer vaccines, as they may be hundreds of thousands less than in Lithuania and Estonia, because there was obviously no okkat, I allow, so we don't have that vaccine, so it's probably, so we expected to bring something else, because every time there's something that can be mixed up. And that's what I said in the morning: I guess the only thing you know is to steal. But do you have a job? The whole society laughs at you, because it can no longer endure it, can no longer endure your indecision, your chaos, only yell can it. What no longer believes? Even yours no longer believe. Even there you are fluttering among yourselves, your supporters are even fluttering among themselves, which are your biggest supporters, who have always built you in the sun. Even those! Even your journalists, who always stop you there, even now they already understand that there is a madness in the country. And in general, Mr. Karins, you would have the same time, the time... If you can't, you can't do it fairly and tell me you can't do it. The public would, by the way, respect this more than the empty speeches you are talking about. That would be the word of honor! You already don't talk to the people, you don't know how it is. I call again on Karini and Pavluta – to stand up in the conference today during the Saeima sitting and tell us what plan, concrete plan, is understandable to the general public. You lead the country, and you have to take personal responsibility, not empty talk. Personal responsibility for a plan that is not and never will be. Get up and say it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2178-U15	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2178-U16	Good evening, everybody! Reflecting on the debate, first of all, on what Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš said about the fact that the given candidate has good experience in government, political experience in government and the Saeima. Such compliments or such expressions about a minister's candidate make me anxious because it is obvious to say how... to express as some positive, big plus, the contribution that there is political experience in the government and the Saeima, in this government and in this Saeima, it rather sounds like an attempt to put a little cynical around which a great victory could then be defeated. The following are all the more... These claims, as one... Another argument is that there has been a joint effort on energy projects. Now we know exactly what the joint work you did – that's OIC – and what it all ended with. Why do you need to call all of this in this situation? Perhaps you are using a rhetoric like this right now, at the very beginning, for this candidate for your minister, because you also see no other explanation for this choice of your political partner, for which there is a general lack of understanding and even indignation about why, without any competence, such a candidate for such a minister in the healthcare sector is being directed. Perhaps you are aware that he is being directed not to care for the healthcare sector, but to enable this political power to prepare for yourself a possible future candidate for the Prime Minister, who will replace you. And so you're already choosing such a rhetoric to show – it's just not going to happen. Perhaps such a man... And what really concerns me when I listen to this everything – however, I did not hear about the specific things that this candidate minister is willing to do. I have not heard from you either, Mr Kariņš, which are the specific settings that you are making this minister have to do. You just made this strange rhetoric about good political experience in the government and the Saeima, about the joint work on energy projects. But what exactly do you expect from this candidate minister as a Minister for Health? And then the question arises: why, too, this political power drives such a minister's candidate. Perhaps one more reason is why there is no important competence in the healthcare sector either, that the main thing will be to samend these purchases, which are now rapidly taking place to us all the time under the cover of this emergency, because it really would have been in your speech too... It would have been valuable for you to explain to the Saeima what the real reasons for requesting the previous Minister's resignation are. You mentioned the vaccination plan. And here too, a very interesting question arises where you, as Prime Minister, should definitely have a course of things and know, and also give your opinion. That is, about these strangenesss in relation to this vaccination plan with these purchases. We are not talking about mask purchases, which were obviously very strange, where you made very strange decisions for one particular businessman – to make purchases according to a special procedure, bypassing the requirements of the law, forcing this contract to be concluded with forged documents for a product with a abnormally high price, which later turned out not to be... was found not to be in use and not to be in conformity with quality. But we're talking... Now it is also interesting if we look at these vaccination plans, at these purchasing choices. Why has Latvia chosen to buy a vaccine (the main amount of vaccine) from other suppliers, unlike all other countries? In principle, almost all vaccines are purchased from suppliers, others are not so enthusiastic to buy this vaccine because, as we know, this vaccine... It is not yet known when it will be approved. So it's about these AstraZeneca vaccines, where we've placed the main emphasis, and the rest are simply its formality, it looks like more forms after bought. The reasonable question arises: why, at the same amount of information (I assume that we had the same information as all other countries), Latvia has made generally different conclusions on these purchases than all other countries. We may have had some secret information about these vaccines. But it may be that the reason is completely different. If we look at the minutes of the State Council of Immunisation, which may also contain... in which, as I understand, I want it... The organ that has decided on these purchases... then there's no reason why this firm's representative, AstraZeneca, has participated. In view of the context with which we have gone through all the mask purchases that have proved very peculiar and strange, in my opinion, it would be very important for our security services to check this information, including what has already been raised now, now on social networks, for one of the reasons for the depression simply to be that they are not divided, say, the benefits of these specific purchases between political parties so that everyone is satisfied. It would be very important for our security services to check this information, starting with the decision that has been taken, the meetings that have been held, the views that have been expressed, the reasons why such a decision on procurement has been made. Because here we are talking about the fact that such a decision can cost the lives of many and many people. I therefore call and call on our security services, our law enforcement bodies, to check this process, because this is very important. It is very important not only because it can cause many deaths, but also because it is very important that our Latvian society does not lose its full trust in Latvia as a legal and democratic state... in which, in fact, the power no longer belongs to the people of Latvia, but to the political cartel of power, which simply does what it wants, without any responsibility and without any conscience, even to the deaths of people... Because really, Mr. Kariņš – it is your government, which is now responsible for the deaths of many people, for the irresponsibility with which... and the failure with which you have come up to deal with this coyd crisis. You asked me not only to criticise you but also to help you with advice. And so one very valuable advice for the future... One case is the vaccination plan. The one who... If we are talking about healthcare, but even more importantly in the current situation, it is not just fear... big eyes to see only the existing problems and not be able to solve them, but think about the next steps. Why is it so important to do this? So – what is happening at the moment? This crisis will come to an end sooner or later. We're... We will leave it and a new source of development will start in our country. The whole of Europe is already preparing for this. How do you know... and society as a whole is probably in the course of things, that there are several billions of this rebirth... Economic recovery money is also intended for Latvia from European funds. It is very important that we begin to prepare a plan in good time, how we will then continue to function as a country in these new circumstances, because the world is fundamentally changing, the economic, technological principles on which the economy will rest. Just sit... to the way we've been and... We will go out and continue to do something further with what we have – it will mean to destroy our country, to destroy Latvia as a place where the people of Latvia can be located. It is really very realistic. So if we're talking about this vaccination plan, which you didn't prepare, it's going to carry a hundred... The lives of thousands of people, maybe... life, if you don't prepare now a plan for how we will absorb this European money, these billions that are being given to us in this common start that will start (and it will be a real trap, it will be a real grip on survival, without compromises, will dissolve blood in a direct and transmissive sense between countries, each will fight for its place in this new order)... If we haven't done our homework there in time, we won't have thought in time how to learn this money efficiently and correctly, in the sense that we're going to be feed to others in all this, deciding ourselves to corruption. No exaggerations. Sometime in ancient times (that was when you were caught up with your success story) I tried to explain to you that this success story actually... to what this success story will lead to Latvia. It was almost 10... 10 years ago. Then you didn't listen to it, you arrogantly thought that you had the right key to this success story, that it was enough for us to look fiscally beautiful, observe fiscal discipline – and the rich investors will come, and we will have an island of happiness here. I have tried to explain to you that it will not work like that and it will be quite the opposite. That was exactly what I explained to you. And then, almost 10 years ago, I gave you the key that needs to be done by Latvia so that we really become a success story. And this key – it was... Investments in innovation, making Latvia more productive... Latvia's economies were more productive, and we had to do it ourselves. How to do that, I can tell you if you, Mr Karin, are really in the interest of that. I can come to you – no matter how... Tell me what needs to be done. Now I am warning you in good time what needs to be done – we need to prepare for this new breakthrough, we need to draw up this new plan, the economic development plan. And it can't be as stupid as I hear right now that we're getting that money... how we get it, we put it in, we make some new parking places there, and we build some new buildings. No, no! Perhaps in this way you can easily learn this money, get successful transactions with the construction cartel (the political cartel with the construction cartel will be able to conclude such transactions successfully), and you will be happy for it, but it will absolutely not be the solution for our country, our society. And so prepare this plan, otherwise it will happen that we will soon, after a while, have to talk again about the resignation of another minister. And there, I am afraid, we will not be able to find any other new minister, much less meaningful, who could understand at all. So, Mr. Karins, this is very serious. Appreciate it and start acting on time! Ask your ministers to prepare it! These are the billions that, if properly invested, we can help our economies or simply make ourselves one big, beautiful casket, where some will, of course, feel well for some time, but the rest will suffer and will be destined for destruction. I do not want to allow this, then I will be harsh and I will make you accountable in good time. It will be similar to the OIC. Therefore, Mr. Karins, come to this very responsiblely. And may God stand before us all in this new situation! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2178-U17	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2178-U18	Highly honored Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues of the opposition who address Mr. Kariņš! I see that... At least in my system, Mr Kariņš has already left our nice system and is no longer taking part in this debate. But when it comes to expressing confidence to the candidate for the Minister for Health, Mr Pavļuta, I would like first of all to join what Mr Tatar said, that it is welcome that so quickly. And indeed, we also called for it to be put forward as quickly as possible, because the situation which was still in place today was quite absurd for us today, as a minister who has publicly given up these duties. And it is good that we have a candidate for the Minister at the moment. But listening to these speeches, first of all the Prime Minister's speech, I heard only one thing that the Prime Minister expects. In my opinion, it was the ability to communicate with society in a beautiful way. And it's not a story about work, about work abilities, but more... It is only about how well the potential minister will be able to communicate with society, which is also in some sense necessary, but it is these organisational issues that I think would be more important. The second thing about Mr Pavluta's speech. At the moment you mention that you will continue with the work that Mrs. Viņķele has begun, I remain concerned at the time, because if we do these works, we were all now and are still witnessing how much we expected these vaccines, and these vaccines are the only opportunity now, how we can, by their very nature, deal with these effects of the virus... causer... vaccinations in particular... and how we were ready. And I'm talking today, day by day, at the motivation of the demand, about looking at vaccines for two days instead of vaccinating, just showing how hard we're actually, how really we're still today – today! - We're not ready... where hospitals now have capacities that are not being filled at full speed to vaccinate people, where the private sector is not involved from the first day that could be done, just because the Minister has chosen a very wrong tactic, and I think that is precisely why she has also experienced depression. We see different positions from the outsider and from the head of the government, and in this situation this is not acceptable, and the public should be clear, so I think that in Latvia it is only a matter of time when we, as an opposition, will encourage the formation of an investigative commission – whether it is a parliamentary committee or an expert commission, as was the case in Sweden – in order to evaluate and have clarity, which are the steps that have led us to the fact that several dozen people die in Latvia today. And this is a direct result of the failure of the government, individual ministers. I think so, and so tell me that, based on the experts' opinions, let us move on... In my opinion, it is necessary to look at the experts whose opinions we are based on here so much. Whether these are experts whose opinions, based on fact, we bought a staggering fence that we made medicals wear on the face, who by nature do not protect and protect these people from the spread of the virus. Different analyses then showed that these masks are exactly the same as, well, they do not want to be compared – masks cut from the pallet would simply be the same. But it paid a lot of numbers, and it was taxpayers' money. At this point, I think that the question is how to protect citizens qualitatively from the spread of the virus and how... So much talk about the plan. I think... and I mentioned it once today and I am ready to repeat it – I think the plan is not even the most important. The main objective is, and I regret Mr Pavļuta's objectives... I heard only that he was ready to work. Well, it is gratifying that you are ready to work, but for every job, as everyone here is very popular to say, there are work results and measurable indicators. In this case, only one measure can be measurable, and the measure is the time when all those who need it will be vaccinated, and all those in Latvia who want it themselves. In my view, this time should not exceed half a year. And then it's absolutely no matter whether it's a road map, whether it's a plan, or whether it's a page of panes on which it's written, the main thing, how it has been implemented and what steps it takes to make it work. Otherwise, everything we do is we fight the consequences, we invest billions of taxpayers. billions are currently being invested to combat the consequences for our economy. At the same time, there is savings, an absolutely incomprehensible process, which only leads to the message that Members will be vaccinated in May. What exactly is this... Are you there? How can this help to solve some type of crisis? How can this help people in some way – those who really need a vaccine, those who are waiting for the vaccine? How can this help them to respond? For a normal citizen, who is currently closed because of all these restrictions, now information about when he or she could vaccinate – next year. Next year, colleagues! I do not think that such an approach is acceptable. Look at the same example of Canada. Canada did not save such things. Maybe at the end of the day, they will then sell those vaccines to countries like Latvia, which simply has completely unwise access to this issue – see, these will be beneficial to us, they will not be beneficial to us... Most, absolutely the majority, of Latvia's population is concentrated around regional hospitals. No matter how much less than 80 or less than 100 degrees its vaccine should be stored, it could be distributed to a very large part of society through regional hospitals. And now start with some austerity policies based on experts – I think it's absolutely wrong. You should have bought the same as in Canada – all possible vaccines, as much as you can buy, and it's nothing that they're going to be able to vaccinate all Canadian people three or four times. The causes they will have managed much more successfully than we do. Colleagues, these are the main reasons why I cannot agree that the policy based on experts is absolutely correct in the facts of today. Where was this policy based on experts in summer? Currently, in Jelgava, when a child becomes ill, he is taken to the Riga Children's Hospital, because in Jelgava, the children's department is closed, where patients of the community are currently sleeping. But instead of repairing a whole unit of the community for patients already in summer, the Ministry of Health did not consider it a priority. It is too late at the moment; fires need to be extinguished at the moment. Colleagues, in these circumstances, I am hearing today a speech from a potential minister who speaks only about his starting work tomorrow... I think that already today the Minister must start work, not tomorrow, there must be a clear vision, not that he will draw up a plan, but for a specific purpose. The aim, when all people will be selected, when all those who need it and those who want it, will have received this service. This is a major task, not a plan and something else. There must be a clear objective for six months from today, as will be done. This is the indicator to be achieved, which could also assess whether or not the Minister has fulfilled its tasks. Today, I did not accept such a commitment and task, the laying of a stick, from the Prime Minister or from the Minister concerned. I just heard us fill the missing position of the Minister in the government. This is not acceptable to me in this situation. Colleagues, I will not take part in this vote. I call on the government to work more closely on the goals to be achieved and to really stop saving on things that should not be saved, because at the end of the day the Saeima will soon receive the next call to invest in airBaltic, even somewhere else. And it's hundreds of millions, billions that are spent while the causes do not work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2178-U19	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2178-U20	Thank you. Dear Chairman of the Saeima. I would like to start with three positive messages, however, today. The first positive news is that the coalition has listened and indeed both the Prime Minister and our colleagues in the Saeima have found, at a very high speed, a candidate for the Minister of Health. That is positive. It is for the first time, I think that the proposal made by the opposition so quickly - and therefore the call from the FAO - is taken into account. The second positive message I heard from my colleague Daniel Pavluta today, yes, he will work. It is also really very positive. The third positive news is about the Prime Minister. I realized today – friends, but it's good. Not like the Prime Minister said a moment ago: “Friends are bad!” Friends, it is good because I understand that Prime Minister and Daniel Pavlut are friends and that is why Daniel Pavlut is also a candidate for the post of Minister for Health. But if we talk about this plan and what is happening now, then I think that really our colleague, Daniel Pavilut, will have to do a lot of work, because I think that the plan for the government has not been just about vaccination. The plan for the government has not been at all to combat this pandemic. We all remember – when good press releases from the coalition and government appeared in October, that there are plans, several levels have been set – the green, the yellow, the orange and the red – all now know how to fight the pandemic. And what happened afterwards? Then I don’t understand how many shops to make hard, what to make hard, whether hairdressers can work, or whether manicure can work. Now, for example, for children's socks can't be bought, for children's compineson can't be bought, but for dogs, however, winter clothes can be bought. I think this shows that there has been absolutely no plan. Not only the vaccination plan, but the government has also worked very badly. If we look at what will happen in the future if such work continues, then I think very many people will not receive vaccines. We know that there are opponents of vaccines, not many of them in Latvia. But just as many, I think, hundreds of thousands of people are waiting for these vaccines. How do you imagine, for example, that such vaccination, as it has begun, to reach the target groups that you have set yourself as priorities, that is, the elderly? Consider: Where people live in the countryside, how far from the family doctors and, more so, how far from the centers... those who don't have a car? In fact, they are now having difficulty getting to a family doctor, or rather, they cannot get to a family doctor at all. To get to the family doctor, they have to have a cord test, and the cord test is often made somewhere far away, most likely in the region... not the district where he lives, but a larger district in the center where the hospital is located. And then he first needs to go twice or three times further, make a team test to return to his area and get to the family doctor. This means that there is no plan, no order and no system already. Therefore, for example, I also call on Daniel Pavlut and the whole coalition to reflect on whether, however, this vaccination should not be planned differently, or whether people in the countryside should come to the doctor with the entire freezing box inside the vaccine. So these are the things that... I think there are a lot of unanswered questions. So try, do it, and I... The main thing that I think you have to do better than ever. Because my colleague, Daniel Pavilut, is also... If I remember correctly, he was responsible for the return plan. A couple of million were spent on this plan if I remember correctly. Well, I do not see anything that remigration would be very successful at the moment. Now that the Communion crisis started, yes, one large part of our compatriots came back, but not because this plan was set up at the time – many, many years ago. They came back because there is nowhere to work abroad in the service sector, and in many other areas the conditions of employers have changed, and the markets have changed. So they came back. So I wish this time plans and also strategies, and all the documents you're making there, so that they don't stay on paper, but actually put into life and people understand what's written there. Let anyone take the document read when his turn comes and whether he will have to travel a hundred miles [100 km]. Even if he is an 85-year-old pensioner without a car – or will come to him. What will happen to the first, second group of disabled people who are not in these plans at all and who are also at risk? I call for these plans to be prepared in a clear, understandable way and for them to be presented and explained to all citizens as well. Therefore, this time indeed, I think, given the current situation, that there have been governments, well, chaotic activities so far – work rather than work – I also cannot support the approval of Daniel Pavluts as Minister of Health. Therefore, I will not vote at all, and then let us hope that any work will be done, that vaccination will be carried out and that the pandemic will be combated, not because of the spring and the summer and the pandemic themselves will disappear, but because the government will work and do its job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2178-U21	Name to Member Ilmar Duritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2178-U22	Good evening, very honourable Chairman of the Saeima! High honourable Members! Yes, well, our Group on Development/About! right at the beginning of the government... has assumed responsibility for health through government development. This was, of course, a very responsible decision. We understand that this is not an easy sector and that it was and is still a very poorly funded sector with many challenges. Nevertheless, our association, party association, and in particular the movement “Par!” has undertaken to manage this very, very important sector. I think the list of jobs done... Not I think, but I know that this list of works done is long and it is clear and realistic and visible, and can be proved in fact. Of course, none of the political forces... and we also did not predict that last year's Communion pandemic would start, that this virus would spread around the world and that the health sector would also have suddenly completely, completely different priorities – and that the fight against infection, stopping infection. Undoubtedly, it has also changed the overall activities, progress and focus of the Ministry of Health and the health sector specifically on this particular problem that has affected the whole world. Since spring, we have received a lot of instruction, advice, criticism and, indeed, constructive criticisms both at the sittings of the Saeima and in committee sittings, from the public and from experts. I really want to say, honourable colleagues, thank you for this, because this constructive criticism has helped and will help. I know that in the future it will also help to improve their work, and much of this advice, from this criticism, has been taken into account and is actually already functioning and taking place in life. Of course, listening to the debate this evening, I also hear a lot of destructive rhetoric, I hear the formation of conspiracy theories, and this has, of course, gone through the entire period of the pandemic. If we remember, then we had a lot of accusations about the fact that we wanted to impose restrictions, there were a lot of different accusations about why we restricted people's freedoms. Of course, when this disease was not so high, it was popular in society. Today, when the disease is very high (in spite of this, Latvia's statistics are not generally the worst in Europe, but about the average), we hear from our critics why we have introduced these restrictions so late and so on, and so on, because now this is a popular trend that everything is late, there are no plans! We're at the fucking porch. But, honourable colleagues, that is not true! Those people who have worked... I can confirm this, and I can assure you from the heart that those people who have worked on these plans and on saving the lives and health of the people of Latvia – they have invested their heart, their lives, their time, their free hours, and it is definitely painful for them to hear these conspiracy theories about some negotiated procurements, as if any lobbying of vaccine manufacturers, and so on. It is, of course, insulting, but today and in this situation it is not the time to insult – it is quite clear – it is the time to stop doing society, I would say, division and start working together. And we will. We have proved that we can do so. We will continue to do so. The proof of this work and this desire is... the new nomination by the Minister. And immediate nomination. I would like to say that this is a great, great challenge for Mr Pavluta. I am very pleased that a colleague has taken on and will take on this really, I would say, the most important position in the government, and I very much hope, colleagues, that we will not use destructive criticism, but let us face constructive criticism and help us get out of this crisis in general, because I am listening to the Saeima... Members of the Saeima are increasingly convinced that members of the Saeima are good speakers and critics, but they are hardly so good doers, because when they really have to do something, it is not always so good for everyone. I very much hope and wish to remind you once again that the purchase of vaccines and orders of vaccines in the European Union is a central issue because vaccines are lacking throughout the world. There's a question about that... the main question is whether we will have vaccines to be vaccinated. Believe me, when these vaccines will be enough and all those groups of the population we want to vaccinate... then its vaccination capacity will be many times, many times greater, because there is no system in Latvia to distribute vaccines, there is no medical doctor to carry out vaccination. We have many family medical practices. We have many polyclinic and different medical institutions, and as soon as these vaccines are available in Latvia in sufficient numbers, this vaccination will take place very quickly and intensively. I am sure and trust the doctors that they understand the importance of this vaccination and they will do it, they are already doing it today. I very much hope that no person will be vaccinated in Latvia, but very many people will want and will voluntarily be collected. I call, colleagues, to switch... and colleagues in the opposition as well... switch from this destructive moralisation and criticism, look at the work that we can do together, what we have already done and what we will do. And what we have to do is to do. It will be good, and we will forget this crisis. We will, of course, suffer losses because we are not unique, we are among other countries, and just as people die there, unfortunately people die. We just remember that, a few months ago, we had colleagues who said that there were no pandemics and no viruses at all; their rhetoric has now changed. At the end of my speech, I would like to say a great deal of thanks to those people working in the health sector and those who are constantly... and doesn't listen to this rhetoric, but just doing his job, just doing his job in the best conscience. I am convinced that Ilze Viņķele, as Minister for Health, did her job in the best conscience and in good faith, and I can really confirm this as her parliamentary secretary. I also did my work to the best of my conscience and integrity. And I am sure that Daniel Pavilot will be able to continue his work and his political experience, the capacity of the organiser and the ability to create a single team will be a success for all of us. Thank you. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2178-U23	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2178-U24	Dear colleagues, You can, of course, want the next Minister for Health to be a superman. Well, of course, from... outside policy, such a non-participant, professional superman. But if, my fellow Members, we have all invested and live in democracy, and if we all, Members of the Saeima, have ever sought voter support with our promises and so on, then it is precisely we must also be prepared to take political responsibility and do so when necessary. Otherwise, no supermen will ever appear in that Saeima if politicians hide behind the backs of non-political professionals. Here, colleagues, speaking of responsibility, I would like to say that this time the party for Development/About! I think it is even very responsible, even surprisingly responsible. Well, what, colleagues, could be easier on their part than to pull this whole process through when every day these regular thirteen... The 20 plus dead would, of course, be the responsibility of Prime Minister Kariņa and New Unity, so easily completing their political competitor. We must note that they chose not to go this route of political revenge, but really in record time... We got one minister yesterday... One minister left, today, in fact, we are likely to have a new minister soon. These are record speeds, colleagues, and this party has not just put forward a political candidate with which this government is full, but has put forward its leaders - not more, not less, but more. With this, my fellow Member, it is clear that if Daniel Pavilut does not succeed, if he fails, he will not solve the challenges, not just his political career, I think that his political party's political career is also dead. This, my fellow Members, is the courage and responsibility that needs to be assessed regardless of the party membership today. In particular, on Mr. Pavluta. I also know him long ago, well, much longer than Prime Minister Karin. I would like to say at least one thing that he has often been accused of for some reason today, as if creating an OIC. Colleagues, let us be right! As an economic minister after Mr Pavļuta, I can assure you that no one... No economic minister in that country has done more to fight the OIC like Daniel Pavlut. He was the only minister who paid for fighting OIK with his position. Therefore, honourable colleagues, if Daniel Pavilut fails, if he fails, then of course the very capable of this Saeima - and this Saeima is very capable, I think a much more capable opposition than the position - the opposition will break down both him, his party and the entire government. If he doesn't succeed, that's all, of course. But today, my fellow Members, I am calling for responsibility and courage to be assessed regardless of the party's membership and to wish Daniel Pavl's success. Whether he will succeed in doing so, colleagues depend not only on our well-being and health, but also on the whole of Latvia. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2178-U25	The name to Member Daniel Pavilut for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2178-U26	Colleagues! First of all, thank you to Vjačeslav Dombrovskis and also to my colleague Ilmārs Dūritis for his good words and more extensive explanations. Thank you also for the constructive criticisms and travel names. I did not speak for the first time in the debate or for the first time, because I really want to go to the Ministry of Health tonight and start work. As soon as this debate is over (and I hope that you will give me your support), I will go there and I will be awaited by the State Secretaries with a report on the most important thing this evening. I will speak in a longer debate in the Saeima when I will have done something in this post and in this responsible task. As far as priorities in the post are concerned, I marked them early this morning in the radio ether. I'll repeat them briefly. The community is, of course, a first and foremost priority, and the main challenge here is to speed up vaccination. The plan can be improved. It needs to be improved, it needs to be probably clearer and clearer, and it needs to be explained how the vaccination will be implemented. At the same time, the plan is just as good as it was in life. There's a colleague in Krausland absolutely right. The main task, therefore, is to carry out the vaccination. It is necessary to support hospitals in this overload by helping them survive by all the means at their disposal. And finally, to carry out a convincing, engaging communication. Communication aimed at restoring citizens' confidence in vaccination by combating disinformation. As regards other matters in the health sector, there is no shortage of work to be done. Yes, I am primarily the Covidean Minister of Time, the Crisis Manager, and yet there are many things that need to be resolved, regardless of the Covidean industry. First of all, the introduction of a new model for medical remuneration. So that the 183 million we have allocated in addition to this year's budget are used to make a useful contribution and reach the people they have to achieve. Improvement of the hospital network. For powerful, modern hospitals are available and reachable to Latvian citizens. Implementation of the mental health plan, which has been approved and which has been allocated money, and which will be so important in the post-war period, and many, many other things. I look forward to your support. Thank you to those who will vote in favour earlier, and I would be very happy to get to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2178-U27	I closed the debate. Let's vote! Please call me! We will be voting on the draft decision on 'On Expression of confidence to the Minister for Health Daniel Pavluts'! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Congratulations to the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavlut. So go work! The public expects good results. Colleagues, so the agenda of the sitting has been examined. There's also a record of Members. Thank you. I closed the fourth remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 7 January 2021.
