ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U1	Dear colleagues, The agenda for the second remote emergency session of 25 February 2021 will begin to be considered. Before we start to examine the agenda, I would like to inform you that we are planning breaks in the ordinary course of the sitting. So from 10.30 a.m. to 11 a.m. Let's start looking at the agenda. Reports by the Bureau on draft legislative acts submitted. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Financial Stability Fees” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On disposal of part of real estate at Rūsiņa iela 1, Riga, for public needs – construction of the European standard line “Rail Baltica” in the corridor of “Rail Baltica” via Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania” be submitted to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 941/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission with responsibility for the Commission. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Restoration and Resolution of Activities of Credit Institutions and Investment firms” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 943/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the Commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Settlement Finality in Payment and Settlement Systems of Financial Instruments” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Bureau of the Saeima proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Disease Management Act” submitted by Member Stepanenko, Dombrovskis, Švekova, Papule and Sprūde (No. 945/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U2	Yes, my fellow Members, I see that Member Juris Puce has cowardly asked for a vote without saying why he is doing so. I would also like to hear arguments. First of all, I would like to tell my fellow Members, honourable society, why this draft law has come and why this draft law has a slightly obsolete date. So first of all, we offer to commission the Cabinet of Ministers to resume the activities of all hairdressers and beauty service providers according to new requirements. Those providers of beauty and hairdressing services, who cannot meet these requirements because they are quite drastic, would have the right to continue receiving a stop-free allowance, at least in some way, so that they can draw ends together, because we know that many of these providers are unable to do so. You simply cannot, because the benefit they receive cannot cover all the losses that are now... which they are suffering right now. It is no secret that neither the rental market has been weakened in this situation, nor any bills are reduced, nor any penalties are abolished - all claims against these people continue. And that's why in this bill the date is 22 February, which has already passed. Here, honourable colleagues, honourable beauty professionals who are watching us can ask the Bureau a question. Perhaps more precisely, one member of the Bureau will not be called on their behalf, but perhaps one who does not really want the opposition's bill to get on the Saeima's agenda in time. The problem for us is that we cannot predict the behaviour of the Bureau; we cannot predict at what point the Bureau will put the draft laws that we have tabled on the agenda... when this should be the case, and when the Bureau is just going to have two more weeks to highlight these draft laws. So the situation is what it is. But, honourable colleagues, if you are going to vote against this bill simply because it contains 22 February, and because this bill has been promoted by some good members of the Bureau, without showing you on the Saeima's agenda, then, believe me, this date can be corrected. This date may be corrected at any time at second reading. What makes this bill different from the Cabinet of Ministers' order is the task of allowing absolutely all specialists in this sector to resume work - absolutely all! - according to what discussions are currently taking place in the Cabinet, because, once again, such orders of the Cabinet create a very grateful ground for unjustified restriction of competition. As we know, beauty professionals and hairdressers are among the most disciplined adherents of these regulations. If we have information from various epidemiologists who have dreamed somewhere that these sectors, as if in the workplace or providing services illegally, may become ill, then, first of all, it is the responsibility of the decision-makers, say, to make these decisions. Secondly, as we know, the Centre for Disease Prevention and Control has declared that it does not separate, do not, say, certain activities... after disease, as appropriate. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call on you to support this draft law - to oblige the Cabinet of Ministers to allow the whole sector to work... not differentiate and take this decision as soon as possible. Thank you. I call on you to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U3	Mr. Aldis Gobzems has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U4	I call for the vote to be taken against all those who are not professionals in beauty, who are not Latvian business, who are not in favour of freeing the economy. I am in favour of freeing the economy. If the Prime Minister was me today, not Kariņš, then people in Latvia should not walk in masks, which is like a patch bought in the pharmacy on a knife cut wounds, which requires a seam, but is applied a patch. There would be no pointless vaccination office. Of course, there would be no compulsory vaccination, but those who want to be vaccinated would receive the vaccine, not the call itself, and would look for a row. It would be clear and clear Prime Minister's decisions and the Prime Minister's agenda so that society as a whole would know that. There would be no restrictions on beauty, no restrictions on trade, no restrictions on glowing with a tyre from a mountain, no restrictions in spring plus 10 degrees... And there would be no idea how to start a ban on cross-country skiing in July and consider a ban on ice fishing in August. Children would go to school. And it would be talked about thinking of others, not about 30 classes of children, unventilated eight hours, where you can't leave the room, but powerfully it would start working on a completely different matter. And this completely different thing is reducing classes, reducing the number of children - more time out, ventilation and everything else. This should be powerful for the heads of departments of the Ministry of Education and Science and for all others. It would be an obligation to reduce the public sector, because we no longer have money in the Treasury. It would be an obligation to invest in medicine, strengthening the capacity of the healthcare system, because the only way we can overcome this crisis is not, as I said, to barcake, but to free up the economy. It's just like the war. You can't barricate and think that war will pass and that everything will pass by itself. No, you have to go to war. You have to consider getting sick, and you have to consider that someone will die too. And the only thing you can do - clear and bold to the public to say: yes, there will be a part of a society that will be much harder to suffer, and what we will do will be to strengthen the capacity of the health system, increase the number of beds. If you need to, buy your doctor and buy expensive medicines. Let us make sure that our mortality rates are not higher... death... rather than testing, but mortality rates are not higher than in Estonia, Sweden or any other country. That is the direction, because the only way to get us out of this crisis is to overload society. We have missed all other means. We must allow society to shout. We need to free up the economy, we cannot afford another year or three years of regime in which we in the Saeima are making decisions about chamber smoke. We need a decisive Prime Minister, and such a decisive Prime Minister would certainly be me. Such a decisive prime minister is not Kariņš and there will not be any other ruling coalition, because no one else has offered logical, adequate solutions, only scaring with waves. But it won't help, and it's never gonna help. That's why we're falling behind in all the figures, even though in summer you were flushed by the brain that we're champions, how we can do everything. We didn't prepare for autumn. I ask you to vote against those who vote against Latvian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U5	Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” (No. 945/Lp13) transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! For - 34, for - 50, for - 5. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. Dear colleagues, There has been a record of the presence of Members. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U6	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! We keep sitting after the break. We are looking at the agenda for today's sitting. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the Member Vjačeslava Dombrovskis, Julia Stepanenko, Viktora Valaiņa, Evija Papule, Karina Sprūde and Lubova's draft law "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax" be referred to the Committee on Budgetary and Financial Taxation, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Mr Zakatistov, are you going to talk about or against?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U7	I will say 'no'.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U8	The name to the Member is Att Zakaitistov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U9	Hello, colleagues! This proposal consists of two parts. One is that zero per cent of VAT, and the other is its idea of reduced, fixed-term VAT in general in the community. That's what you're talking about. Well, it's simpler, because the so-called VAT Directive of 2006, which is... 112, well, we are not allowed to reduce VAT to zero. And here too could end, but I would like to look at the substance of the issue of fixed-term VAT together and in the hospitality sector as such. I will form my argument in four parts. Let us first try to understand whether Latvia's situation is in some way unique for the hospitality sector. Then I will be happy to list what benefits are provided at all, and then I will give an assessment of the overall reduced VAT rate for tax professionals. And at the very end of the day, we must go back to the UK's sad decision not to continue applying reduced VAT in the hospitality sector. I found such a printed... In Internet Media Euractiv. com is a special edition that compares all the countries of the European Union... the situation in the hospitality sector, and I'll just give you the facts. So 18 of the 27 Member States of the European Union are closed. There are severe restrictions where they work. France (and these are... surveys with industry associations and governments). France is therefore working with the industry to ensure that sustainability criteria are taken into account in opening up the sector. Vaccination issues will not give priority to opening up the sector, as restaurants do not need to become vaccination police officers. In Germany, in the short term, the government is focusing on reducing disease rather than opening up plans. The government has denied special privileges to immuniseds. In Belgium, the date of opening of the sector is unknown. The Minister for Economics reveals that the issue is still being politically assessed, but at a time when the majority will be immunised, the issue needs to be reviewed. Austria. The government has not yet set the date for opening the sector... and so on. Spain. The sector will not be offered direct support, but indirect support mechanisms to defer taxes and rents. The industry is located in a perfect storm. What I am trying to say is that we are in no way unique, and the uncertainty about issues about the future of the sector is in the nature of a pandemic, not in any way in the Latvian Government's inability. For benefits. We have 23 different benefits. And we don't have anything to be ashamed of. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme or measures coming under this item, and any other expenditure on I could call it, but it's time for the dicts to run fast. That is the third argument that I would like to say that the overall reduced VAT assessment by experts (which has been provided by KPMG researcher Sandor Arena) is that, in terms of corporate resource management, accounting processes and in cooperation with the revenue services... it is difficult for the company and there are widespread risks of conflict with the revenue services. The flow of documents must be carried out manually and the quality of the documents becomes questionable. From a human point of view, such action may not be desirable. And finally, we have to go back to the sad decision of the United Kingdom. As is well known, the United Kingdom has decided to reduce VAT from 20 to 5 percent in the Cobra. After an extension of the deadline on 26 January this year, the UK Minister for Finance stated that the Government no longer had plans to extend the reduced VAT treatment and he was rather laconic. So Jesse Norman (and I quote him): “Tax discounts and aid costs a significant amount. The government is continuing to monitor and review tax collection and is not currently planning to extend this aid." In the Ministry of Finance, we calculated how much this zero support for the VAT hospitality sector would cost, which is 77 million. I think Jessie Norman's latonism is also applicable to us. So the government continues to follow and review tax collection and is not currently planning to introduce reduced VAT in the hospitality sector. Please vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U10	Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis will speak about it. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U11	Good morning, dear colleagues! Mr. Zakatistov, I have already planned to compliment you in some way on the fact that you have prepared... after hearing your application. Somehow prepared for this bill, but then, hearing everything you say... To 80 percent, Mr Zakatistov, what did it have to do with this particular draft? You are not a tax professional, and we know that, of course, very well. But let's go in a row, Mr. Zakatistov! First. Zero interest rates are banned in the times of peace, Mr. Zakatistov! Now we have a pandemic time, and I think... I have no great doubt that if the government were to argue on its position with the European Commission, the European Commission, as proposed in this draft law, it would be acceptable for the duration of the pandemic to do so. But if you have a zero-interest problem, then the budget... in time, proposals were also put forward to set a reduced VAT rate that is allowed - at five per cent - but also against it was the Ministry of Finance, or not, Mr Zakatistova? Second point: You say it's not necessary because - how much did you say? We have 23 benefits. Well, Mr Zakatistova, you are Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. I'm just... If you haven't noticed, you... Even Latvijas Banka gives you very harsh words about your inability to plan and deliver those benefits in a targeted way to businesses. We have just decided by the government to pay a child benefit - EUR 500 for all, for all families - precisely because the Ministry of Finance has shown its absolute inability to implement the policy of paying out the allocated benefits. So, well, from you it says that we have 23 benefits... Perhaps you have 23 benefits somewhere on paper, but how much does it actually get to people and businesses, Mr. Zakatistov? Well, this is a very, very good question. Third. Mr Zakatistov, you are telling us here that, here, it will cost EUR 77 million. I will remind you, Mr Zakatistov, that we are talking about two sectors - catering and hotels, which are the hardest, absolutely clear, are the worst hit in this crisis. Together, by the way, with air transport. Then let us look at the policies pursued by its governments, including the Ministry of Finance. So we have air services where there was no problem with providing aid amounting to EUR 250 million... no problem, Mr. Zakatistov! So 77 million for public catering, hotels that employ far more people than air transport - you have a problem. Let's go. Agriculture. When, how much benefit, how much help does agriculture receive? At the very beginning of the crisis, we talked about support for several tens of millions of euros. And just now, the agricultural sector, in order to combat the consequences of the pandemic, was granted, if I am not mistaken, if I remember correctly, more than EUR 40 million. For a sector which, at all... has virtually not been affected during this pandemic period at all. And then for those who have lost up to 90 percent of their turnover, you say: no, aid of EUR 77 million - that's too much! And it's not just help. Mr Zakatistov, if you had some or at least a minimum education in the economy, at least some course you would have been taken by the officials of the Ministry of Finance, then you would know that there is a law of demand, which means that if we reduce such a tax, the price will fall, while the reduced price will lead to a higher demand, with a higher turnover. I understand that it is, perhaps, only available to tax professionals, but not to you, Mr Zakatistov, and unfortunately the Ministry of Finance does not understand that either. I therefore call for support, however, for this draft law to be passed on to the Commission so that we can discuss it with professionals, if any. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U12	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission presented by Member Vjačeslava Dombrovskis, Jūlia Stepanenko, Viktora Valaiņa, Evija Papule, Karina Sprūde and Lubova to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible! Please, let's vote! On - 35, against - 48, refraining from - 11. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Disease Prevention Law” presented by the Member Jūlia Stepanenko, Evija Papule, Lubova Švekova, Karina Sprūde and Viktoras Valaiņš (No. 947/Lp13) to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the Commission responsible. ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak about” Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U13	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that it will be almost a month since, by unanimous decision of the Saeima, 93 Members voted in favour of the task of the Cabinet of Ministers, as soon as the epidemiological situation permits, to resume the activities of children and young people. We see that nothing has changed during this month - so this announcement by the Saeima has been sent to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Cabinet has not taken this call into account. Especially cynical... You can see that the Cabinet of Ministers is calling... has not even studied this health protocol. There has been no task for the Ministry of Health to work with the Ministry of Education and Science and to get to work. This was our order of the Saeima, the Saeima task of the Cabinet of Ministers - to work, to co-operate with the ministries and to resolve this issue together. Furthermore, it should also be taken into account that on-site training, both outdoors and indoors (promoted by the whole Saeima in a joint vote), should be resumed in accordance with the health safety protocol, which lays down very strict criteria, very strict attention from the coach as regards children's contact, hygiene requirements and indoor requirements. At such very strict conditions, these lessons could have been resumed for a long time, my fellow Members, for a long time. We see that there is no desire to start working on something in this situation, there is no wish. Moreover, what we have also pointed out is that these sports are different. We have a hockey, we have swimming, we have basketball, we have other sports that can be organised as well both outdoors and indoors. And if we're talking about a hockey, then you can also see that the baby hockey classes are actually done outside, they can't be guaranteed anymore because the weather is already unfavorable to keep ice. So children will urgently need to return to hockey halls, indoors, where they are now... they are subject to a ban. As well as tennis has already been talked about, I think several times. Hence, the prohibition of tennis in the large tennis hall is absolutely pointless, since contact with such an area as some epidemiologists may have imagined does not exist. All these things that we have been talking about for a month, for more than a month, are mentioned both in the commissions and in the sittings of the Saeima! - but nothing is heard. And the fact that the government actually ignores the decision of the Saeima and does not account for any of its actions towards the implementation of this decision shows, of course, once again that the government exists somewhere on its own planet and does not go into the public's request or what the Saeima said. I'll remind you once again, maybe those who read again and wonder... dates... watch dates. February 22 was the date we set for that stage... the start-up phase in which the government should reinitiate progressive sports activities for children and young people. And why February 22? We are back again to the wonderful Saeima Bureau, which has replaced the draft law presented by these Members so far that this date will have to be adjusted to a different date. But nothing, we keep working. We will also continue to submit draft laws, but this draft law is the current proof that the Saeima Presidium chooses, on a voluntary basis, not to place the draft laws submitted by the opposition on the Saeima's agenda. Therefore, honourable colleagues, despite this date... We shift that date to the next Monday as a task for the government to resume sports activities without delay. I call on you to vote in favour of this draft law and to allow you to finally resume sports activities in accordance with a reasonable health protocol. Stop, please torture children and young people. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U14	“Pret” has applied to speak to Krišjānis Feldmans. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U15	Good morning, colleagues! Yes, well, thank you to the opposition for supporting the Ministry of Education and Science, which is fighting for sport in Latvia, for being able to play sports wisely indoors, out. Thank you also for your support to Sandis Riekstins, who is following this issue very actively, and so on 2 March there will be a Sub-Commission for Sport, where representatives of the Ministry of Health will be invited, who will also be able to explain them, say... Well, Oppose there... for example, to put forward arguments against sport, if they so wish, why the incentives of the Ministry of Education and Science have not yet been supported. I invite everyone to attend that sub-committee meeting, to listen, to listen and to draw conclusions, as they say. In this case, of course, once again, thanks to the support, as you say, I would perhaps also ask you to familiarize yourself with the arguments that are the opposites of sport, and then maybe there will be less to write all kinds of draft laws, draft decisions, less to do with an empty one... simulation of operation. And also in this case, of course, taking into account... hasn't been that wish, or it has been its wish to hurry up before the Sports Sub-Commission meeting with some empty votes... I call on you, of course, to reject and concentrate on constructive work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U16	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Disease Prevention Law” presented by Member Jūlia Stepanenko, Evija Papule, Lubova Švekova, Karina Sprūde and Viktoras Valaiņš (No. 947/Lp13) transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! On - 36, against - 41, refraining from - 4. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes the Member Viktors Valaiņa, Māra Kučinska, Ulda Augulis, Janina Jalinska, Jānis Dūklavs, Jānis Vucanas, Armands Krauzes, Gundars Dauges, Edgars Tatars and Raimonds Bergmanis’ draft law “Amendments to Covid-19’s law on the management of the spread of infection” (No. 948/Lp13) transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the Commission responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U17	Yes, hello, colleagues! Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! This question. We invite the Saeima to support the amendments tabled by our colleagues, which, in essence, provide for a lump sum allowance of EUR 200 for all persons who are granted a state old-age pension, disability pension, survivor's pension or social security benefit under the Law on State Pensions, and persons who cannot qualify for the state old-age pension. We call on all these persons to receive a lump sum allowance of EUR 200, just as we all unanimously have already voted in favour of children... for this allowance of EUR 500. We see that there is a very active political debate on this issue, and we also agreed and drafted this bill together with the Latvian Pensioners Federation. I would like to mention a few things that are important to understand. In the public space, too, I had heard a variety of opinions about why pensioners should help if they already have pensions and their lives have not changed. I'd like to say there's a lot of stuff, though... Much has changed and has also affected the life of pensioners. The first and the most important thing that lies at the heart of all is that it is healthcare, because, at the moment, pensioners cannot normally get to specialists or different procedures, and, of course, the health situation is getting worse objectively. And if the health situation deteriorates, then there is of course the cost of health care - that is medicine and that kind of expenditure. Colleagues! We would call for support for this draft law to be passed on to the Commission and, in this way, to begin the debate in the Saeima in substance, and to come to the best solution. Of course, it has been heard that a differentiated approach would also be necessary, but a differentiated approach involves quite a large amount of bureaucracy. These models, the questions on how to give seniors support, could we look at the Commission and the Commission, too, at the best possible solution. We are now calling for this matter to be referred to the competent parliamentary commission. This offer is without prejudice to large pension beneficiaries. The impact on the national budget ranges from 111 to 115 million euros for this proposal. Of course, this should be coordinated with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Welfare. In our view, children - this is the first step. This is the second step, for which very much is broken today between political parties in the government. In my opinion, this discussion should be open, transparent and should take place within the Saeima Commission, with the participation of a wide range of invited people. Our seniors, for the reasons outlined above, are in a very unpunished situation at the moment, so this support is vital. Once again, we have developed this proposal together with the Latvian Pensioners Federation, and they have full support for it. We would call for this matter to be referred to the Commission so that, further to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Welfare can agree on the best ways to look at this issue further, knowing that it has a great budgetary impact, but also knowing that no one is giving the seniors the medicine for free at this time. They need to buy medicines, health care is currently not available to their full, normal levels, and this crisis has had a significant impact on their lives as well. I call for support for this draft law being passed on to the Commission. I think colleagues had a long time to get acquainted with the proposed version. We are not hasty, we have submitted something in good time, so today we are calling for support to be given to the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U18	Mr Maris Možvillo has applied for a speech. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U19	Hello, dear colleagues! Hello, chair of the sitting! Thank you to the Union of Greens/Farmers for this draft law in this pension support... support for pensioners and other groups. At the moment, the situation in the political group and also in the coalition... is in the position that we also support these groups and have already made a proposal on how to provide benefits to pensioners, people with disabilities and other groups. This means that the procedure described by the Greens/Farmers Union is already very close to the final stage, that we are supporting pensioners with EUR 200. In the coalition, we have already agreed on the amount, we have agreed on the type of aid. The Latvian Pensioners Federation and all participating federations, as well as the Latvian Municipal Union, have coordinated our plan. Consequently, support will be provided and I call for this draft law not to be supported, because we are already very close to the decision and will return to the Saeima with a ready decision that will have to be voted on by our colleagues. Once again, I call for this draft law not to be supported, because we are already very close to the solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U20	One Member has spoken about the proposed law, one against and one against. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Viktors Valaiņa, Māra Kučinska, Ulda Augulis, Janina Jalinska, Jānis Dūklavs, Jānis Vucenas, Armands Krauze, Gundars Dauges, Edgars Tatars and Raimonds Bergmanis' draft law “Amendments to Covid-19's law on the management of the spread of infection” (No. 948/Lp13) transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! For - 34, for - 50, for - 9. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the Member Andrejs Klementyeva, Vital Orlova, Sergej Dolgopolova, Igors Pimenova and Jānis Urbanovičs be referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, according to the draft law on unemployment insurance. ‘ On” applied to speak Member Jānis Krišāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U21	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima sitting. Dear colleagues, Today, it is indeed time to think again about the draft law "Amendment to the Act on Unemployment Insurance" and the fact that we support these unemployed people for a period of more than four months and increase the amount of the allowance to EUR 250. And I'll see it. Today for a large part of the Latvian population, the material security of families continues to deteriorate and for many, very many have already reached a critical limit. There is no job, as many services sectors are idle or are already bankrupt, there are practically no vacancies. And this is particularly true in Latgale. In the spring of this year, more than 72,000 unemployed were registered, now some 85,000, and last January there were only 58,000. At the same time, the number of vacancies has also decreased significantly - almost half - and already this year, as I have heard, the number of unemployed has increased by 10 thousand. This means that the material situation in the unemployed’s families is getting worse during the emergency, because no one has abolished credit payments, real estate tax payments, kindergartens, public utilities and other payments, not to mention the fact that a child must pay an electricity and internet bill in order to learn at a distance. Otherwise the service is disabled. If you have ended up with Covid-19 complications in the hospital, you also have to pay the patient's co-payment there. I am afraid to even think about the purchase of food and household goods in these families so that basic human needs can be provided. I agree that the unemployed need to become more involved in temporary public works, which will be paid for by the municipality, but this is just one drop at sea and does not solve the problems of living for the whole family. If someone becomes ill and is unable to share in these activities, what? There's no work incapacity page, there's no work, there's no benefit anymore... What to do? Desperation and hopelessness are increasingly heard in negotiations with the population. People are blaming Members and the government that the state does not, or does not, give money to social protection so that the people feel somewhat protected. And it is not only sad, but even criminal to its constituents. Many people have listened to an interview with Robert Zīle, a Member of the European Parliament, on television, and there is a misunderstanding about why our Ministry of Finance is so lightly giving up money that Latvia will not have to repay at all. Why has Latvia submitted only 70 per cent of the available funds, which can be used to strengthen our economy as well as to ensure the social security of our citizens. Why do governments of other countries apply for 100 per cent or more of the plan, but Latvia is showing an unforgivable austerity regime and is desperate about its people? Of course, if the error is not corrected, then the money of the European Recovery Plan will pass away. I call for the use of all possible forms of financial leverage to help citizens overcome the crisis caused by the Comma pandemic. At the moment, I call for support to be given for the time and increase in the cost of unemployment benefits so as not to leave people without social support. Indeed, there is despair, aggression, and if a person has no means of subsistence and lacks food, think about what to do? Go robbing? So I want to finish with the Latvian People's Parun - do what you do, think about the end! I think this is a very important problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U22	Mr Maris Možvillo has applied for a speech. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U23	Good afternoon, colleagues! We have already talked to the previous draft law about the fact that the Ministry of Welfare is currently working to provide for the extension of unemployment benefits and support also for those groups who have no opportunity to alleviate their situation as a result of the communion crisis. Since, in this case, we are already very close to the solution, and in fact, in the very near future, a solution will be submitted to the Saeima to decide on the solution to this problem. So that I call for this not to be supported, so as not to delay the time and so that we are quickly on track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U24	One Member has spoken for, one against. Please call me! Please vote for the Member Andrejs Klementyeva, Vitaly Orlova, Sergej Dolgopolova, Igora Pimenova and Jānis Urbanovičs' draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Unemployment Insurance”” to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 33, against - 47, abstaining - 11. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. Dear colleagues, We shall continue to see the agenda for today's sitting. And there's the section "Provision of draft laws". See the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Ieva Krapāne. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U25	Hello! The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance” for the second reading. A total of six proposals have been received. 1. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It is of a technical nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U26	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U27	2. - a proposal from the Commission on Social Affairs and Labour. It is added that household income is measured not only in order to qualify for social assistance benefits but also in terms of the status of a poor or disadvantaged household. This proposal is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U28	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U29	3. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. The Commission was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U30	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U31	4. - a proposal from the Commission on Social Affairs and Labour. The Commission is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U32	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U33	5. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U34	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U35	And the last, the 6th, and also the Social and Labour Affairs Commission's proposal. This proposal clarifies the transitional provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U36	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U37	On behalf of the Commission, I therefore ask the Saeima to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U38	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance". Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U39	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 2 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U40	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 2 March this year. On the agenda - reports by the Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. Members Ivars Zariņš, Armands Krauze, Aldis Gobzems, Karina Srūde, Didzis Šmits, Valery Agešins, Boriss Cilevičs, Andrejs Clementyevs, Ivans Clementyevs, Vitalijs Orlovs, Gundars Dauge, Edgars Tavars, Inga Goldbergs, Regina Ločmele, Edgars Kucins, Jānis Krišāns, Igors Pimenovs, Arthur Rubiks, Jānis Tutins, Jānis Urbanovičs, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Ivans Ribokovs, Janīna Jalinskas, Andris Kazinovskis, Kaspars Girgens, Maris Kučinskis, Jānis Dūklavs, Viktors Valainis, Jānis Vucāns, Raimonds Bergmanis, Uldis Augulis, Jānis Ādasons, Nikolas and Sergejs Dolgolovs are the final members of this decision, that we will be able to this decision. There is no objection by Members. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U41	Hello, fellow Members, again! All those who have not yet been seen, all those who follow our sitting! Yes, so many, many can say that this decision has already reached their own point, not even here in the Saeima sitting, namely on the day on which we members of the opposition gathered their signatures, so that the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima would be convened specifically for this decision because, in the future, those sittings of the government must be open to the community, and literally, after a few hours, Krišjānis Kariņš came to the opening of the government sittings, that is, after a whole year, when those sittings were kept secret, this revelation suddenly came to Krišjānis Kariņš. Of course, this was, of course, related to this decision by the Saeima, which the opposition was about to direct that day to an extraordinary sitting. Many here could say that, well, the target has already been achieved. Yes, we have achieved our goal by far. These sittings are now held openly, but why would it be important for the Saeima to take such a decision? For, see, there is a principle difference, whether it is simply a promise given on Twitter or a decision of the Saeima. It has a completely different legal binding force. If it is a decision of the Saeima, then then further work by the government and the regulatory environment governing the work of the government will have to be established, so that this decision of the Saeima will be carried out, because... what's happening now. Not to mention that we know that politicians' decisions... As they have given the name, it can also take back – according to the principle of “how can you not be hungry?” . There are more ways to be finer and more sophisticated... refined ways to fail this promise, Krišjānis Kariņš. One such step is that an official of a ministry can submit classified information as if it were classified. As we know, our officials very much like classifying this information, any information, even one that has no connection at all to be secret, even often one that should be public - is specially classified. What, though, is happening in this situation? In this situation, the head of government, on the basis of the order book of the Cabinet of Ministers (which the Cabinet itself has issued), in my view, paragraph 183, can say - either, in this case, if classified information has been submitted, the sitting should be closed because it is stipulated by the order book of the Cabinet of Ministers. That is why it is so important that we take such a decision today and that we lay down this legislative framework - the task for the government to hold public meetings and to carry out the necessary... This would mean that they should also make the necessary amendments to the legislative framework in order to ensure that these meetings are held in an open manner. The need for open hearings is a clear necessity. I think everyone has had the opportunity to make sure that when these sittings were closed, that is, when the decisions came out of which the public did not understand at all what was hidden there, what was the basis for these decisions. Therefore, if these sittings are open, then the public will have the opportunity to follow the decisions of the government, to see how responsible and competent these decisions of the government were in the context of the Covid-19. Given that the government has not been able to explain to the public the validity of its decisions, it would have been possible for the public, following these decisions, to judge itself - whether they are justified or not, and what the reasons are. Realizing this justification, society would be... The government would have greater scope for public support for its decisions. On the other hand, if the public were to see that these decisions were unfounded and absurd, they would have greater legal possibilities to challenge these decisions and to force them to change. Well, for example, with the same beauty industry or wholesale. Where is this argument? Is it really the only way to protect the public from the risks of infection to impose such restrictions? Was it really impossible to make it differently, to make other solutions? Are there sufficient grounds for these restrictions imposed by the government now? Is that right? Do they make any sense or not? All this would result in a more successful and coherent dialogue between society and power. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call on us today to support this decision and to show that we, as representatives of the people of that country, want to see a more responsible government, a more responsible government decision-making process and a clear framework for it, a legal framework that the government would then have to do, and it would not be possible to circumvent it. Because I expect that, otherwise, we will soon see more than one case where (as I mentioned in the example) these government meetings will be bypassed and will not be made public. Colleagues! I therefore call for support for this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U42	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U43	Hello, colleagues! Society! For open meetings of the Cabinet of Ministers and what it gives or does not give. The entire society has become accustomed or demanded that the work of the Saeima is public and the work of the Cabinet of Ministers is public, but two things need to be separated. Thus, the essence of Parliament is a debate which logically must be public and be open to all parties. The Cabinet of Ministers, as an executive institution, is an institution that really makes very many very strange decisions and really very many decisions from the secret... Well, deciding from the secret where there is no reason, because it is quite clear that in Latvia the biggest state secret is that there is simply no state secret. The problem is, in fact, not in the decision-making procedure, but in the content of the decisions. Whether the meetings of the Cabinet of Ministers will be public or non-public - this does not change the quality of the decisions... the quality of the decisions taken. We see public government sittings, but do we see better quality decisions? No, I can't see. Consequently, the only thing that we see, but which has not been a secret in the past, is that Kariņš does not actually lead the government. It was clear to those who thought it was the same, without public government sittings. This instrument gives the unthinking public an opportunity to see it. But the quality of decisions does not change at all. What I think should be in a normal, developed, democratic country is that the decisions taken by the government are not secret but public. With very rare exceptions that concern really, I allow what defence-related issues, what military issues and so on. Everything else... There is no reason why government decisions are secret: they are presumptuous, false secrecy, creating false seriousness. So there must be public decisions, they must be explained publicly, but the decision-making process itself, as is the case in most... actually in the whole normal world... The Executive Body, the Management Board, the Government shall discuss its decisions by closed doors. Why? This is needed not to be a theatre, not to be populist ministerial statements, knowing that they will be shown in Panorama in the evening. That's the situation we need for the Prime Minister, who is a great Prime Minister... And I'm not talking here about Kariņš, but about a strong personality that doesn't fear making decisions, it's not afraid to swallow it and, if necessary, to sharpen its office members, if necessary, very sharper and also words that cannot be shown on TV. In no country, right here in Estonia, we do not see such a theatre, because it does not improve any quality. That is why I call on the public to just think about it. Now we have seen all this happening, and we have understood that our Heads of State are weak personalities, they do not control the process and the result has not changed. What should we do as a society? We, as a society, should demand not openness in what way this process is going on, the process of talking between ministers, but a high-quality Cabinet of Ministers... another Prime Minister, another government, very probably another Saeima. And we have to do it. This is the solution. Because we can put Pabrika instead, we can put Asheraden, we can put it, I don't know Gerhard, and those ministers will exchange portfolios, and they will be the same. There will be populist government sittings and there will be no result. We don't need a show in the country, we've had too much show. We need a result. We need a government that is capable of making decisions. We must therefore help to create such governments. So I'm not a big fan, I've never been to... the decision-making process. That is why, for example, there are all these coalition councils, cooperation councils and so on. Because in every case, dear people - and you need to understand it, and that is a fair answer - in every case you will also need to talk to disabled cameras, in such normal, human language, about some painful solutions. It's normal. Look at all the old democracies. Well, have you seen the American President discuss all his decisions publicly? Does the British Prime Minister - all the decisions he makes every day are being discussed publicly? Is Estonian Prime Minister? Is it Lithuanian? Whatever the country. We've taken everything with it -- publicly and so on, it's... Not that it makes a result, the personalities make a result. I understand the goal that we wanted to show the public that Karin is not the smart guy he has been showing here for a long time on television. We've shown it, and then? There is no result, and there will be no result. These open government meetings will not produce any results, at all, under any circumstances. In some cases, they will even interfere with making a firm decision, say, the Prime Minister will, by nature, be prevented from putting a couch in the table and putting the entire Cabinet in place so that there may be bold decisions. Our country needs bold decisions, not video rollers, where Karin does not know if he is Minister for Foreign Affairs Rinkēvičs or he is Minister for Finance... and that he doesn't know anything he's talking about. We don't need rollers in which we yell for our premiere. Well, we have reason to do this. But do we become richer as a country? That's why... Why is there no coalition council or cooperation council in other countries, and something like that? Because there is simply a normal job in the Cabinet. I know that perhaps this opinion is not popular, but I call on people to simply think and compare in a rational way what happens in other countries. This is not where I finally defend Karina. I believe that he is an absolutely inappropriate Prime Minister, he cannot run the Cabinet, he does not manage it either. He has no saying, as we see, and the ministers are voting on him and so on. In which country the Prime Minister can be voted... in a normal country? We see those shocking interviews with the head of the vaccination office, who doesn't even know which e-system, e-school or where you can see anything about vaccines... We'll find out in five days and so on... But for thinking people, everything is clear before that -- that those people are inappropriate in their places. But quality does not change. Did the vaccination process improve by showing on television a story where Kariņš talks with the head of the vaccination office? No, no. Pensioners call themselves, pensioners go, I don't know, there are to the Birth House, to the Children's Hospital, apply themselves in queues, there is something in Manavaccina.lv, where something has been applied for, but if you want to pick up, then you go and find everything. Next, all the decisions... We've even seen it today. Instead of Kariņš coming up in the debate and saying, "Listen, dear, we don't vote today, we're taking it out, we're not voting for a mountain cell not being able to get out of the mountain." It takes two minutes to connect to him... for this sitting. He can't do that. Such people cannot lead the country. And in the long run... I understand the opposition will have achieved its task in the short term, but in the long term we certainly do not need to make our country a show. We need to watch and evaluate the decisions made and how it responds to our society as a whole, and stop listening to the beautiful speeches, stop watching on television, because television, you see, always serves power. Always. And when I want to change, they start gradually, let's say, laughing at the premiere. We can see that Karin is starting to laugh at him. The situation has come exactly the same as that with Straujuma. So it's absolutely clear that the Karin government will fall... within a period of approximately one month. Well, absolutely... Well, if state television starts to laugh at the premiere, it's quite clear: the end of this government is very close. History... Just look at the history, analyze, dear people! I am not opposed to openness, I am in favour of the open decisions that the Prime Minister has an obligation to explain every decision, but the consultation process... You too, dear people, don't discuss every day. The consultation process itself... You're not talking about inviting the whole parish... All the aunts and Elves of the neighboring farm to discuss, let's say, your things, as you will do there. Can't - objectively! - make no good decision if you all the time... If you're a Prime Minister and you've always got your work on the table... daily work processes must be shown. You can't focus on your main task already. And so there is no such situation in any of the normal countries, but in the normal countries all the Prime Ministers come to the Saeima regularly... to the Parliament. Johnson is in Parliament every week. Karin is weekly in Parliament, explaining his decisions? In a normal state, the Prime Minister shall be accountable to Parliament. Are we accountable? No, no. The Prime Minister's accountability to the public? No, no. Let's just paint the eggs for Easter, I feel that way. Well, if Estonia accepts today as a full-blown, hard-blown, it is clear that immediately ours will run or tell us what, let us say yesterday, the President of Latvia... something like that. Everyone with super-negative ratings will talk about waves, but solutions will not talk about them. So, what's that kind of openness? Nothing. So, dear people, I say that changes in our country are possible, rather than replacing the Prime Minister from this government, ministers from this government... Changing them to places will not change anything. In our country, changes are only possible if thinking is changed. Yes, the elite is changed with the thinking of others. Only then will there be changes. The changes will only take place when I'm Prime Minister. As long as this government is in place, there will be no change. The objective will be as it is. It likes or does not like it. I can like it or not, but that is objectively so, because I think otherwise. Because you can't achieve a different result, thinking as you always thought, you have to think differently. It's on its own. I have to think differently from my heart. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U44	The name of Member Regina Lochmele. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U45	Hello, colleagues! The reason for this draft decision was that 34 Members of the Saeima, who have a conscience, have finally said that what is happening in the country during this pandemic, that the quality of decision-making and the context in which it takes place, namely absolute secrecy, are no longer possible. I am really very happy that among them 34 13. The Members of the Saeima who signed this draft decision also have people who could not quite be added to the opposition. These are Andris Kazinovskis and Kaspars Ģirgens. What a great deal for both Andris and Kaspars, thank you very much! And that's hope, it's hope that besides Andra Kazinovska and Kaspars Girgena there could be people who will sign under the draft decisions that are required by all Latvian citizens next time this parliamentary conscience is needed. Why was this draft decision necessary, despite the fact that it took several hours since this draft decision was signed, and Prime Minister Kariņš himself was forced to state publicly that, behold, there will be government sittings open yet? But why didn't he do it first? Why was it necessary to collect signatures - and this was what the position knew - in order to force the Prime Minister to make such a decision and publicly announce it? It is no secret that during a pandemic there has been a total crisis on the part of the government with regard to communication with the people. This is also reflected in the historically lower government confidence ratings. At present, the people’s satisfaction index with the government’s work is minus 43 percent. minus 43! 43 percent of Latvians are dissatisfied with the work of the government. Of course, there is a very big question as to whether this index would be larger if people really knew the whole argument why the government is taking that or another decision, because I was told by the ordinary people who were watching the first open government sitting - that it is now clear to them why there is such a barrack in the country. Indeed, they were surprised at the depth of their argumentation, the quality of their analysis, the quality of their work by members of the government on statistics, whether these statistics are available to them at all, and whether they are analysed by ministers. Indeed, they were surprised because they still hoped that decisions were made much more seriously. But there is no other way out to show people why such or other decisions are made. I appeal to every minister, to the Prime Minister. While you are in this government, despite (I have now checked again) that 97 Members are listening to this debate, this debate, there is no representative of the government, no minister, no parliamentary secretary, who would listen. Although decorations after having invited someone who could then refer this debate to the government. I will say no, because it is also very natural that the Saeima, which has a smaller decision at the moment of the pandemic than the government, works openly and anyone can follow our debate, learn new information, the same statistics, listen to arguments and decide whether the analysis on the basis of which the decision is made is really qualitative and scientifically sound. Now this is a chance for the government. And here, ministers, please be careful. Now the depth of your mind will be like a hand and any Latvian citizen will be able to see what is on its hand. 34 people in the Saeima will be able to continue submitting any draft decision that would expose the government's current crèches. We have 34 votes to initiate any draft decision. And the people now have every chance to make sure that the government listens to this Member with a conscience, or that it is still so blind that it does not listen to either the people or the Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U46	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U47	Honorary Head of the sitting! Colleagues! This draft decision is very symbolic in a way - it is symbolic in that, with this draft decision, we see that the government is still listening to the opposition and, when the opposition makes some proposals, it is nevertheless decided with some delay and does exactly what the opposition wishes. This is also a clear indication of the public hearings: when it came to the situation that the draft decision had already been submitted to the Saeima, the head of government - in principle there was no more where to look - decided to open these sittings. Why, though, did we find ourselves in such a situation? In my opinion, the answer to this is first of all in one of the first days of the government of Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš, when Mr Kariņš decided to abolish and no longer convene the meetings of the Committee of the Cabinet of Ministers, a format that is absolutely normal - in the government on issues of debate, openly, transparent, with representatives of society, to discuss issues of contentious nature, so that these issues would then be less debated at the government meeting and on those that are so complex, to keep work still in working groups or ministries. Now the situation is that the head of government, seeing how these decisions... these difficult decisions are decided at the government sitting, quite simply decided to make closed parts, and these closed parts were, of course, very difficult for society, even impossible to explain in a normal and understandable way why one or the other decision is made. Government decisions are bound up if you can say so. The community is concerned: one day decides one, the next day decides something else. And now too, when we see public sittings, we see who are populists who shoot out the first one on the tongue and then think how to get away from it all. Colleagues, this, in my opinion, shows the inability of this government. And this is also the moment that the President has been involved with his sharp statements that the government should take some responsibility... the ministers on the decision taken. I, too, have addressed the President of State in a way, asking him to cancel this Cabinet at all, because when we have these public sittings at the moment, we see clearly! - the extent to which this government is unable to manage the crisis management. It is absolutely incapable, lying in the waves of populism. Colleagues, that is what society as a whole is currently seeing. And that's the government... In my opinion, to work in the composition in which it is present - quite simply it is harmful to the development of the country as a whole. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for the holding of public sittings... this draft decision of the Saeima to support today and the members of the government to follow the opposition proposals more specifically, to follow closer together so that there is no time lag between the ideas that we have put forward when they finally come up with the government. Like today, there is a question of senior pensions. Colleagues, we want openness in decision-making. The issue of senior pensions is now... The issue of senior pensions is now being addressed behind closed doors. No member of society can follow how you get to these decisions. Colleagues in the Saeima could ensure this, so we called for it to be done in the Saeima. At the moment, the government, looking at this issue absolutely like this... Although there are public sittings of the government, this does not alter the fact that decisions are taken, viewed in some premises which have no connection with public administration. Colleagues, I call on this support and the government to listen more actively to the proposals of the opposition and to work in an open, transparent way so that the entire public can see the competence and incompetentness of ministers and that the public is putting pressure on this government more quickly, so that the President finally puts pressure not only on certain ministers but on the government as a whole, that this government has actually worked its time and that we need proper crisis managers rather than a government that is not able to manage such a crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U48	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivara Zariņa, Armanda Krauzes, Alda Gobzema, Karina Scraves, Didža Smita, Valeria Agešina, Boris Cileviča, Andreja Clementyeva, Ivana Klementyeva, Vital Orlova, Gundara Dauges, Edgars Tauka, Inga Goldberga, Regina Ločmels, Edgars Kucina, Jānis Krišāna, Igora Pimenova, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Tutina, Jānis Urbanoviča, Vladimira Nikonova, Ivana Ribakova, Janina Jalinska, Andra Kazinovska, Kaspars Girgena, Maris Kučinska, Jānis Dūklava, Viktora Valaiņa, Jānis Vucāna, Raimonds Bergmanis, Ulda Plantis, Jānis Adamsona, Nikolaja Cabanov and Sergeja Dolgopolova. Please, let's vote! About - 33, against - 52, abstaining - 4. The draft decision was rejected. On the agenda - draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 375 Latvian citizens “On the replacement of transport compensations of members of the Saeima by public transport tickets””. Do Members have reservations that we are looking at this draft decision at this sitting? Please open a section on the procedure. Members have no reservations. We can see this draft decision. Name of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application. Name to Member Vital Orlov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U49	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Dear Members, On January 18, 2021, the Saeima received a collective application of 10 375 Latvian citizens “On the replacement of transport compensations of members of the Saeima by public transport tickets”. On 17 February this year, the Parliament’s Mandate, Ethics and Application Commission examined the collective application and heard a representative of the initiative applicants who indicated that it would be important for Members to refuse private transport to mitigate climate change in the world. The representatives of the initiative also pointed out that replacing private transport by public transport would increase the motivation to improve the quality of inter-urban public transport, as well as saving public budget resources. After hearing the representative of the initiative, the Commission decided, with nine votes in favour, two against and three abstentions, to refer this Latvian citizens' initiative to the Legal Commission for further evaluation. On the basis of the fourth and fifth subparagraphs of Section 131.5 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, the Commission prepared a draft decision of the Saeima “On the way forward of the 10 375 Latvian citizens’ collective application on the replacement of transport compensations by public transport tickets”. Please support the prepared draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U50	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the future direction of the 10 375 Latvian citizens’ collective application “On the replacement of transport compensations for members of the Saeima with public transport tickets”! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft decision supported. On the agenda - draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 419 Latvian citizens “On the abolition of restrictions on sauna and other beauty services””. Do Members have reservations that we are looking at this draft decision at this sitting? Please open a section on the procedure. The speaker and... there are no objections. We can see this draft decision. On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications - Member Janīna Kursīte-Pakule. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U51	Dear colleagues, On 11 November last year, the Saeima received a collective application from 10 419 Latvian citizens entitled “On the abolition of restrictions on sauna and other beauty services”. On 9 December last year, the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications started a collective assessment of the application, in which the authors of the initiative call for the removal of restrictions on saunas and beauty services imposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, pointing to the negative impact of this decision. The Commission agreed to decide on the progress of the application, taking into account the dynamics of the epidemiological situation. The Commission continued to consider the collective submission at its meeting on 10 February this year. Members of the Commission heard from the Ministry of Health about its guidelines for the safe operation of beauty professionals, as well as the information provided by the Disease Prevention and Control Centre and the state of play of the disease. At its meeting on 17 February this year, the Commission heard representatives of the Ministry of Economics who informed about the current situation in the field of beauty services and developed the concept for the safe functioning of the industry so that legislation could be amended and restored. The Commission unanimously decided to guide the initiative for consideration at the Saeima and to instruct the Cabinet to assess the possibility of amending the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 6 November 2020. 655 (section 5.2), lifting the ban on the provision of sauna and other beauty services as soon as possible. Thus, on the basis of the fourth and fifth paragraphs of Section 131.5 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, the committee has prepared the draft decision of the Saeima “On the way forward of the 10 419 Latvian citizens’ collective application “On the abolition of restrictions on sauna and other beauty services”. I ask Members to support you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U52	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Tell me, please, will you have enough five minutes?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U53	Yeah, I'll have five minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U54	Thank you. Please, you have a name.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U55	Dear colleagues, Of course, by calling for support to be given to this draft decision, I would like to point out that, as is clear from practice, these draft decisions of the Saeima do not, unfortunately, reach the government in any way. We have prepared and supported a draft decision on sports activities. We have also prepared other draft decisions concerning the abolition of trade restrictions, which, by their very nature, all really went to the heart, but when we had to vote, we had to run into the bushes. This draft decision is, of course, necessary for the beauty industry, emphasising that all workers in the beauty industry deserve the right to resume their work, no matter how strange it may sound at all: people are currently fighting for rights, for the possibility of legally continuing their work. What we have found, also in contact with representatives of the beauty industry, is a really unimaginable difficult situation in which they have reached, especially given that, as I have already stressed, nothing is stopping, no bills are stopped, there is still an attempt to maintain their place of practice, there is still a need to work with suppliers, and there is still some way to keep our customers alive. This is an extremely difficult challenge for professionals in these sectors. In addition, it is very important to remember that compared to, for example, the catering business, which is also, of course, in a very difficult situation at the moment, specialists in this sector cannot in any way provide services remotely or by delivery at home or in any other way. This solution, of course, is not possible under certain circumstances... due to understandable circumstances, but in some cases, unfortunately, it may facilitate the provision of such services illegally, which we have also verified, both by watching people known to society, including members of the Saeima, and by contacting beauty professionals who... Some of them were forced to admit that they had information that some representatives of the ministries, some of the government, for example, were calling these people to their homes, and they were also continuing to maintain their beauty. This is very special, this is a very important case where we should allow people to work according to the safety protocol and end up pretending that... People who want to survive will do everything they can to survive, because in this sector, dear colleagues work primarily women, often women, who themselves bring up children... where it is the only means of subsistence. This draft decision is, of course, very soft in relation to the government, so there is no obligation to immediately open up everything to everyone, but I call for it to be supported. But I do not really believe that the government will listen to this call from the Saeima. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U56	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 419 Latvian citizens “On the abolition of restrictions on sauna and other beauty services”! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft decision is supported. Dear colleagues, It's time for a break. Registration of the presence of Members... has occurred. Intermediate... Interrupt until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U57	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The agenda for the second remote emergency session of the Saeima shall be continued on 25 February 2021. On the agenda - reports by the Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. The draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 215 Latvian citizens “Pay attention to psychotherapy prescribed by the doctor”. Applicant - Commission for Mandates, ethics and applications. Colleagues, does any Member object to the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this sitting? Please apply in section on procedure. No one's signed up. There is no objection by Members, so let us begin to examine the submitted draft decision of the Saeima. Member of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications Andris Skride. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U58	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Colleagues! Listeners! Thus, the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications has received this collective application of 10 215 Latvian citizens, and its fundamental necessity for the application is that there is really no medical psytherapist's advice currently paid from the state, if it is meant, for example, by a family doctor or a psychiatrist. We also listened to this from the applicants, and on 17 February, we also listened to the doctors psytherapists and psychologists. They also supported this initiative, and we all decided to move it forward together towards the Social and Labour Commission. On behalf of the Commission, I also ask Members of the Saeima to support what has been decided in the Committee on Mandate, Ethics and Application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U59	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 215 Latvian citizens to pay for the psychotherapy prescribed by the doctor”! Please vote mode! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The next item is the agenda for the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Members Aivars Geidāns, Anita Muižniece, Ēriks Pucens, Ieva Krapāne, Maris Možvillo, Edgars Kronbergs, Iveta Benhena-Bekena, Ivars Puga, Janīna Kursīte and Krišjānis Feldmans have submitted a draft decision “On the withdrawal of Aivars Geidans from the Legal Commission from the Saeima Member”. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft decision tabled by Member Geidans, Muiznieces, Pucena, Krapāne, Možville, Kronberg, Benhen-Beken, Pugas, Kursīte and Feldman “On Revocation of the Saeima Member Aivars Geidāns from the Legal Commission”! Please, let's vote! On - 74, against and refrains - not. Decision adopted. The next item is the draft decision tabled by Members Geidans, Muižnieces, Krapāne, Možvillo, Kronbergs, Benhen-Beken, Pugas, Pucena, Kursīte and Feldman on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Maris Možvillo from the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision submitted by Member Geidana, Muižniece, Krapāne, Možvillo, Kronberg, Benhen-Beken, Pugas, Pucena, Kursīte and Feldman “On the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Maris Možvillo from the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs”! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Next is the draft decision on the election of Aivars Geidans, a Member of the Saeima, to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs. The proposed Members Geidāns, Muizniece, Krapāne, Možvillo, Kronberg, Benhen-Beken, Puga, Pucens, Kursīte and Feldman. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Aivars Geidans, a Member of the Saeima, to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs! Applicants - Members Geidāns, Muizniece, Krapāne, Možvillo, Kronberg, Benhen-Beken, Puga, Pucens, Kursīte and Feldman. Please, let's vote! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The next item is the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member, Maris Možville, Kronberg, Pugas, Benhen-Beken, Nemir, Pucena and Kursīte, tabled by Members of the Parliament, “On the election of the Saeima Member, Maris Možville, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Maris Možvillo to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. The next item is the draft decision of the Saeima on the election of the Saeima Member Edgars Kronbergs to the Legal Commission. Applicants - Members Aivars Geidāns, Anita Muižniece, Ieva Krapāne, Maris Možvillo, Edgars Kronbergs, Iveta Benhen-Beken, Ivars Puga, Ēriks Pucens, Janīna Kursīte and Krišjānis Feldmans. Janina Kursīte and Krišjānis Feldman. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Edgars Kronbergs to the Legal Commission! Please, let's vote! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Next - draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Edgars Kronbergs to the Commission for Mandate, Ethics and Application. Applicants - Members Edgars Kronbergs, Anita Muižniece, Ēriks Pucens, Maris Možvillo, Ieva Krapāne, Iveta Benhena-Bekena, Ivars Puga, Aivars Geidāns, Janīna Kursīte and Krišjānis Feldmans. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Edgars Kronbergs to the Commission of Mandate, Ethics and Application. Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The next item is the treatment of parliamentary requests. ‘ Requests received by Members’. Members Igors Pimenovs, Valerijus Agešins, Ivans Clementyevs, Edgars Kucins, Boriss Cilevičs, Ivars Zariņš, Regina Ločmele, Arthurs Rubiks, Jānis Tutins and Vladimirs Nikonovs have submitted a request to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On notification of restrictions on rights established by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Saeima”. Igor Pimenov has asked for the floor on behalf of the applicant. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U60	Hello, honourable Members, honourable Members! On 5 February this year, the Cabinet of Ministers supported two decisions – amendments to the order on declaring an emergency situation and amendments to the regulations entitled “Elimic Security Measures to limit the spread of Covid-19 infection”. Those amendments removed the restrictions on the services to be provided in shops and included them in the order, making them even more stringent, requiring one visitor to be provided at the point of delivery of the commercial service at least 25 square metres from the public space area. While awaiting permission to enter stores, buyers were forced to stand at the store’s door in the queue, sometimes on the island, which is a source of indignation in society. In accordance with the law “On Emergency and Exceptional Status” the Cabinet of Ministers announced amendments to the order “On Promulgation of Emergency”. The amendments were discussed at the Saeima on 11 February and supported by a decision of the Saeima. On the other hand, amendments to the provisions of the Law on Epidemiological Security Measures to limit the spread of Covid-19 infection were not passed to the members for viewing and evaluation, since the Cabinet of Ministers had not been received, although according to the law on the management of the spread of Covid-19 infection, the Cabinet of Ministers informed the Saeima about the establishment of the intended restrictions, which affect the rights of persons and legitimate interests. According to the applicant, the Cabinet of Ministers allowed violation of the law. Although the Saeima had orally named amendments to the rules in its report, Members were, in fact, misled before the vote because of the fact that only one was seen from two documents. The essence of the request is to request Prime Minister Kariņš to inform the Saeima about the above mentioned amendments to the regulations, as provided for by the Covid-19 Law on the Management of communicable Diseases, and to obtain an opportunity to submit them to parliamentary debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U61	Thank you. Thus, the request to Prime Minister Artur Krišjānis Kariņš “On Notice of Rights Restrictions of the Cabinet of Ministers to the Saeima” is submitted to the Commission of Petitions. The next item is a request from Members Viktors Valaiņa, Evija Papules, Edgars Tatars, Ulda Augulis, Janis Dūklavs, Janina Jalinska, Janis Vucanas, Julia Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde and Gundars Dauges to the Minister of Health, Daniels Pavluts, On the list of “officials who are required to be vaccinated to ensure national security and continuity of state activities” and the decision to be taken on their vaccinations. Member Viktors Valainis has given the floor to the motivation. Please also apply electronically! Mr Tawar, you cannot replace Mr Valaiņa right now, because the request itself states that Mr Valaiņš will be motivated. He must also apply in the current electronic system. ( Pause) Mr. Valaiņš isn't on the system right now. On the basis of the Legal Bureau's consultation, we do not have the opportunity to give the floor to a different Member than the one who has indicated in the request that he wishes to give the reasons at the Saeima sitting. Consequently, this request to the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavļutas, ‘On the list of ‘officials who are required to be vaccinated to ensure continuity of national security and state activities’ and the decision to adopt their vaccinations’ is referred to the Appeals Commission. The next item is the request made by Members Ivars Zariņa, Boriss Cilevičs, Ivans Klementyeva, Jānis Tutina, Arthur Rubika, Valeria Agešina, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Jānis Krišāns, Igors Pimenova and Edgars Kucins to Prime Minister Arthurs Krišjānis Kariņš “On the inconsistency of your government activities with your government declaration and violation of the electricity market rules regarding OIC regulation”. So the motivation... In this request, Ivars Zarins has asked for a statement of reasons. Mr. Zarins, you have a name.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U62	Yes, I think the whole public still remembers well that, for the elections, the parties competed in the auction that they will do with the OIC. It went up to the fact that there were parties who offered to wind up OIK. These parties have established a government. New... And this government has also recorded in its declaration as one of its tasks that it will implement the elimination of the OIC. Unfortunately, more than two years have passed, but none of these promises has been made. It seems that the society had developed... Some of the society had an naive hope that this government would finally solve this great injustice that was created at the time... by the way, which was created exactly when the Minister for Economics was Krišjānis Kariņš, who is now the head of this government, and promises to fight against his own atmosphere. It doesn't smell at all. Not only the government declaration has not been fulfilled, but this power has gone even further than the previous one. So not only do they fail to keep their promises to cover the OIC, but they even commit violations of the law. That is, we adopted last year... Amendments to the Electricity Market Act were adopted at the beginning of last year. Although these amendments were well castrated in the past... The old draft law created by the previous parliamentary term, the existing government has not been able or willing to fulfil even this digged version of the law, in which there are still certain requirements that had to be fulfilled. Specifically. This new... These amendments provided for the preparation of a new overcompensation regime, which would include all the aid received and proportionate expenditure. This has not been done. These provisions had already to be adopted in August last year. Similarly, respect for the common technological principle... which is used in many frauds. This has not been done either. Specific provisions have been established to circumvent the law so that no recovery of the aid unlawfully paid to itself should be carried out. That is what this government is doing at the moment, which has promised, which has written in its declaration that it will deal with the OIC. And then we turn to Krišjānis Kariņš and ask, we want to find out what the reason is: is this government simply unable to fulfill its promises and to comply with the law or to deliberately avoid doing so? Because they are simply disgusting violations that are currently being committed. Thus, for more than half a year, the government has been breaking the law on the regulation of OICs and will not intend to do so. We hope that this request will be addressed in due time. I remind you, within two weeks, it must be on the commission. Keep your eyes on everyone!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U63	Thank you. Thus, the request of Prime Minister Artur Krišjānis Kariņš “On the inconsistency of your government activities with your government declaration and violation of the rules of the electricity market law regarding the regulation of the OIC” is submitted to the Request Commission. The next item is the opinion of the Petitions Commission. Vital Orlova, Andreja Klementyeva, Regina Ločmele, Janis Krišāna, Edgars Kucina, Jānis Urbanoviča, Igora Pimenova, Arthur Rubika, Ivana Klementyeva, Inga Goldberga's request to welfare minister Ramona Petraviča “On delay with implementation of Covid-19 mitigation measures in social care centres”. On behalf of the Commission, Ivars Puga, Member. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U64	Yeah, thank you. Welcome, colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen! The Panel examined Members Vital Orlova, Andreja Klementyeva, Regina Ločmele, Janis Krišāna, Edgars Kucina, Jānis Urbanoviča, Igora Pimenova, Arthur Rubika, Ivana Klementyeva, Inga Goldberg Minister for Welfare Ramona Petraviča “On delay in implementation of Covid-19 mitigation measures in social care centres” (No. 45/P13) and, by voting in favour, nine against and three abstentions, admitted that the request made by Members should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U65	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U66	Hello, chair of the sitting! Good afternoon, honourable colleagues! Despite the rejection of our request by the Petitions Commission, I nevertheless appeal to my fellow Members to support it. When looking at this issue at the Commission on Petitions, the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs, the Commission on Public Administration and Local Government, fellow Members saw that the problem existed. What the welfare minister needed to do to reduce the prevalence of the community in social care centres was not done. And only when demand appeared, the Minister for Welfare began to respond to events that were in social care centres. We Members can come up with questions to prepare the request, but we cannot come up with the figures presented by the Centre for Disease Prevention and Control and by the Ministry of Health on the number of patients, on the number of deaths. And it shows that the Minister for Welfare has not done everything necessary to reduce the prevalence of the community in social care centres. Request to support our request.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U67	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Pugas, would you like to add something else?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U68	No, there is nothing to add on behalf of the Commission, but I would remind you that Members' request was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U69	Please call me! We will vote for Member Vital Orlova, Andreja Klementyeva, Regina Ločmele, Jānis Krišāna, Edgars Kucina, Jānis Urbanoviča, Igora Pimenova, Arthur Rubika, Ivana Klementyeva, Inga Goldberg Minister for Welfare Ramonas Petravičs “On delay in implementation of Covid-19 mitigation measures in social care centres”! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The request is rejected. The next item of the agenda for the sitting of the Saeima - Examination of draft laws. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour, Member Evita Zālīte-Grosa. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U70	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs has examined and supported the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child” (No. 908/Lp13). The aim of the draft law is to broaden the concept of the Honorary Family, which began in 2012. It supports large families with special certificates and thus provides them with various types of relief. The draft law marks the next stage, including families taking care of the disabled, regardless of the total number of children growing up in the family. Two proposals have been received for the second reading. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. According to the explanatory memorandum of the draft law, the rules supported at first reading are clarified, provided that the seventh paragraph of Article 26 also applies to families with a disabled person under the age of 24 if the first or second disability group is designated. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U71	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U72	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Linked to proposal 1. Transitional provision for the entry into force of the new paragraph of Article 26. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U73	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U74	Colleagues, on behalf of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs, I am asking for support for this draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U75	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child” at second, final, final, reading! Please vote mode! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. The next item is the draft law amending the Invalidity Act, second reading. The draft law is declared urgent on behalf of the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour - Member Evita Zālīte–Grosa. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U76	Thank you. The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs has examined and supported the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Invalidity” (No. 909/Lp13). This draft law is closely related to the previous draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Children” because, in order to receive the Honorary Family Card, families taking care of children with disabilities also need an amendment to Article 3.1 of the Disability Law, providing for the right to process the information included in the disability information system. No proposals have been received for the second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, I call for support for the second, final reading of the draft law on Disability Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U77	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law on disability law! Please vote mode! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the law on the depths of the land, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ralph Nemiro. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U78	Dear President, So we are looking at the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Deeper Land””. One proposal has been received for the third reading. Let me briefly remind you of what the draft law is all about. The draft law is aimed at developing a framework that facilitates the exploration of complex subsoils. The proposal has been received from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Mr Ples, and provides for remuneration for restrictions on property rights to be closed down in writing. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U79	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U80	We have therefore examined all the proposals... It was just one. I ask colleagues to support the draft law at third, final, reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U81	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Deep of the Land”” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Next bill - “Law on the rental of residential premises”, third reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Uldis Budriķis. Please! Mr. Budrick, we can't hear you. Mr. Budrik, we see you, but we can't hear you!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U82	Could it be that now there's...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U83	It's okay now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Good afternoon, dear colleagues! 93 proposals were received to the third reading of the draft law on the rental of residential premises. And to get through them faster, let's start right now. The first three proposals concern the scope of the law. It should be noted here that the Commission decided that the law applies only to the use of residential premises used for permanent, long-term living - for housing needs - but does not apply to the use of temporary residential premises, for example, for leisure and tourism purposes. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U85	Members have requested a vote on this proposal from the Legal Bureau. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! For - 81, for - no, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U86	2. - The proposal by Miezaiņš, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. It is partly supported and included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U87	Members have requested a vote on the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Mr Janis Miezaiņš. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The proposal submitted by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics Jānis Miezaiņš! Please vote mode! For - 27, for - 35, for - 13. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U88	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U89	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U90	4. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau which proposes a different version of the subject of the rental contract. The Commission has assessed and maintained the more detailed version adopted at second reading, which is also the subject of the agreement. 4. - The legal bureau's proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U91	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U92	5. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which provides for a different version... for the entities of the rental contract. It is partly supported and included 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U93	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U94	6. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It complements the above-mentioned proposal of the Legal Bureau that the subject of the rental agreement may also be a person who owns an apartment... Right. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U95	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U96	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. I've been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U97	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U98	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U99	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U100	Proposal No 9 provides for a different approach to the content of rental contracts, divided into... in terms... For the purposes of civil law. The proposal has been partly supported and included in 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U101	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U102	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible covering both proposals 9, earlier, from the Legal Office, 11 and 12. And here I would like to add that it takes these proposals as the basis and divides them into essential... which must be complied with on a mandatory basis... What are, let's accept, time limits, rent, order of amendment... and those that may include... It also supplements the procedure by entering the rental contract in the land register or by notarily approving it. And if the renter in the future, let's assume, because of the lack of rent, he plans to go to court... applying the Civil Procedure Law... procedures for the uncontested settlement of commitments... This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U103	Members have requested a vote on this proposal, 10. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - Proposal submitted by the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government! Please vote mode! For - 72, for - no, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U104	11. There's my proposal, Member Ulda Budrik. Associated with the consent of tenants to the unconditional forced execution of their obligations. Partially supported, included 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U105	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U106	12. - The proposal by Miezaiņš, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. On the same subject, too, of uncontested forced execution. Partly supported and included 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U107	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U108	13. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau proposing a different version of an article explaining the rental. For the protocol: I would like to mention - to make it easier for the users - that the payments included in the second part, related to the use of living space, are, for example, management expenses, payments for services arising from the use of living space and ancillary premises (including electricity, the use of natural gas; water supply, sewerage services, the export of municipal waste), as well as payments for real estate tax, as well as payments for insurance. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U109	Members have requested a vote in favour of this proposal, 13. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! No, 73, against and refrains. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U110	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Related to a change in structure. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U111	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U112	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U113	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U114	16. - Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova... The proposal by Regina Lochmele. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U115	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U116	Hello, colleagues! I am very sorry that the Commission has not supported my proposal, because this proposal is vital for absolutely all Latvian citizens who could be, in the spirit of this law, both renters and tenants, if we are talking about living quarters. Let me tell you about the substance of the proposal. This law, the law on the rental of residential premises, will be a special law. Thus, the force of this law is greater than the norms of the Civil Law, which regulate the relationship between the tenant and the renter. This new law, on which we will vote today, contains a definition... on who are family members, if we are talking about tenants in the very sense of this, special, law. I would like to draw the attention of absolutely all the Members, the political groups... the attention of the political groups to the fact that, according to this rental law, the family members are only the spouse of the tenant, the minor children of the tenant and the spouse. Given that my proposal was voted on by the Commission, these children will count as family members only up to adulthood. The essence of my proposal was that the children of the tenant and his spouse should be considered family members up to the age of 24 while these children are studying at general, professional, higher or special educational establishments. Unfortunately, the Commission has not supported my proposal, and I think it is really tragic. Just because children who are placed in the order referred to in this paragraph will not lose their status as a family member when they reach adulthood... That would be if the Commission were to support my proposal. You now have the opportunity to vote in favour of my proposal and allow the children of the tenant or his spouse not only to age but at least to age 24 to count as family members. So if one of their parents dies and this parent is the tenant, they would retain the right to renewal of the lease so that they would not lose that right. My proposal is that it was the smallest of what could have been asked for. I would like to focus first of all on the Development/About Groups. and the attention of members of the Young Unity Group to the fact that, within the meaning of this rental law, family members are only these - legal spouses and minor children of the tenant and the spouse under 18 years of age. There is no option here to maintain the right to renewal of the lease in the event of the death of the tenant if the relationship is not registered and if it is a family that has no officially established status (in the sense of current legislation). We are all well aware that, at present, several working groups in the Saeima are dealing with the issue of what unions... human unions could be seen as a family. I repeat: in the sense of this new rental law, the family is only a formal marriage, so the spouse and children under 18 years of age. We still have all the discussions on the rental law before us, but I would very much ask you to vote... absolutely all... there is no meaning here - a position or opposition proposal... on the maintenance of the status of a child as a family member, not only up to the age of 18 but up to the age of 24, while the child is still in education. Please vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U117	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U118	Thank you. I would like to remind you that I am very well aware of the order book's demands that the Member should talk about the proposal. The roll of order, thank God, does not determine what kind of speech should be and how that speech should be constructed. That is why I will begin as in the Constitution - with a small preamble. I accept that the majority of the coalition Members have not read either this draft law or the proposals that have been tabled, the number of which is huge. For the third reading, there are 90 proposals for "capques", which shows that the draft law was not of good quality and therefore required great effort to improve it. I also admit that part of the coalition's Members do not know that they already exist today... Since 1993, the law “On the Rent of Accommodations” has been in operation. I also admit that the majority of members of the coalition do not know that, prior to the Second World War, rental relations in the housing sector existed and were highly developed in the Republic of Latvia, and were subject to... that's regulation... were subject to the requirements and norms of the Civil Law, so... This new law... the draft law is very restrictive and does not provide for a number of necessary things, but provides for many unnecessary things, such as, for example, what the Cabinet of Ministers could do - the establishment of the provisions of the treaty. But when we talk about this proposal, here again we are faced with a certain misunderstanding about what we are regulating, what we want to achieve. The provision contained in the proposal does not reflect all the situations that may arise in rental relations, especially those that have arisen now. What Regina said, obviously... It is absolutely right, because if we are talking about laws that protect children's rights, if we are talking about norms, let us say by what age its benefits for children, then, naturally, they are 24 years, not 18... or otherwise. Naturally! Mrs Ločmele is absolutely right when she said that the list that is in this norm is not exhaustive and that its situation is many... richer. In this case, I do not specifically understand why the Group on Development/Par! was not actively involved in the discussion of this proposal and quietly conceals what is happening in the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, because its debate... I remember, to be honest, very few examples in the Saeima's practice that it would have been so long and, to be honest, not particularly fruitful. We will talk about the way this draft law has been drafted, but this time I would like to say that Mrs Ločmel's proposal would be welcome, and I also call on the Saeima to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U119	The name of Member Regina Lochmele for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U120	Thank you to Mr Dolgopolova, who described this very important - absolutely important to all people of Latvia! - the context of the law. I would just like to add that, in front of us, proposals 21 and 22, with which I tried to extend the range of persons who would have the right to renewal of the rental contract in the event of the death of the tenant, to third parties who would be precisely those partners, brothers, sisters, midwives and other close relatives, the relatives of tenants and close persons whose family members are not formally counted on this person, in accordance with this law that we will vote on today. But proposals 21 and 22 are still ahead. And this, 16, is the minimum, with which we will protect a child between the ages of 18 and 24, the right to renewal of a rental contract in the event that one of the parents dies. I very much ask you to vote in favour of 16 because this is the minimum possible way in which we could protect at least our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U121	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U122	Hello! I will perhaps be very unpopular on this issue and will express my opinion - the opposite. Well, in 24 years, what kind of kid?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, At the age of 24, a woman is at the best of her birth to become a mother. A husband should learn to live with his mother, not at the age of 24, but to become independent. A full-year-old, enrolled in a university, becomes self-employed. Yes, starting from the beginning, the parents help, direct or something else... How long we're going to grow such infirm, like... By how many years? This is the main argument why, in my opinion, we need to raise people who want to build families at the age of 22-23, give birth to children... taking responsibility for your own life, as you once did. And let God give everyone in the family to have parents who can help, but let it be a sad thing that we will call a child when we reach the age of 24, that is wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U123	I closed the debate. We will vote in favour of 16. - Mrs Regina Lochmele's proposal! Please vote mode! About - 28, against - 45, abstaining - 11. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U124	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Before this vote, I wanted to speak on behalf of the Commission...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U125	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U126	... the circumstances in which the Commission chose to reject the proposal. That is, in essence, part of Article 14... Articles 14 and 14 cover all children, including up to 24 years of age. If the renters... There's such a thing attached... The third paragraph of Article 14 provides that not only children, but also other posted persons may be in the apartment if they have agreed in writing with the renter. Let's go. 17. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U127	Members are in favour. And thank you for explaining the 16th proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U128	18. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. On obligation of the renter not to prohibit the tenant from declaring his place of residence in the rented residential space. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U129	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U130	19. - a proposal from the Legal Office to exclude the first paragraph of Article 14. This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U131	Members have requested a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U132	Yeah, thank you. 20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a Commission proposal which aligns the terminology used by law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U133	Let's start... Yes, the debate has been withdrawn, but a vote has been requested. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 20. - Proposal submitted by the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government! Please vote mode! No, 75, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U134	Thank you. 21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal from Member Lochmele. Partly supported and included 23. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U135	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U136	Thank you to Uldis Budriks for explaining some of the norms in this law, but one fact was defaulted. Yes, this law allows the children of the tenant and his spouse, as well as other persons, to renew the lease, but provided that these persons have been allowed to settle in this room by the tenant. For example, if a rental contract is concluded in a given year and at this moment a person has not concluded any... has not established any relationship or has not yet been born a child... whether that child lived with another parent, for example... But after five years, the situation has changed, for example, your mother has had a stroke and you have taken your mother with you; your child has suddenly decided to live with you rather than with your other parent; you have a civil wife and she is used to living with you... Once the tenant has died, these persons no longer have the right to renew the lease on the same terms as it was concluded with the tenant. That's a story. There is a story about the fact that a new rental law lays down stricter rules for people who are not officially family members. Once again: within the meaning of this law, family members are only tenants, their spouse and children under the age of 18. That's a story. I very much ask you to support my proposal, 21, because it was only partially supported and only partially incorporated into the proposal 23 supported by the Commission. And in general, with regard to family members, this new rental law has more contradictions, as was pointed out by the Saeima's Legal Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U137	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U138	Thank you. We are continuing the same negotiations that have already been launched on the other issues. By the way, in commenting on the 19th proposal, which was not supported by the vote... The proposal by the Legal Bureau, to be honest, is very precise and very correct. And the rejection of this shows once again that those Members who voted against the proposal from the Legal Bureau have not even read the draft law at all. This proposal made a request for the exclusion of the provision relating to the payment of security... for something else, and this was in no way related to the requirements of the relevant article. In this case, too. Yes, part of the proposal by Regina Lochmele has been supported, but it is not fully supported because here... There are indeed huge problems in this whole law. And it's not the only problem that regulates family relationships for rent, because it's... I would still call it when we talk about specific articles, about concrete proposals... In this case, I would like to call for support for Mrs Lochmele's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U139	The debate is closed. Mr. Budrik, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U140	Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission. Partially supported, included 23. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U141	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 21. - Mrs Regina Lochmele's proposal! Please vote mode! On - 23, against - 45, refraining from - 11. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U142	22. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It has been partly supported and included 23. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U143	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U144	To convince you to vote in favour of this proposal, I will simply read it. I had asked to state the third paragraph of Article 14 of the draft law in the following wording: “In the event of the death of the tenant, a person who has been placed in the rented residential area in compliance with the provisions of Article 12 of this Law shall, within three months, have the right to renew the residential rental contract without altering the provisions of the previous residential rental contract, including the term of the contract.” So this is about the same rights I am talking about. Once again... voting 'no' to my proposal, because it was only partly supported... The proposal supported by the Commission narrows the range of people who are entitled to full renewal of this type of contract... While there is a debate in the country about who the family is, I would like to point out once again that it is a special law whose norms will be higher than any other rule that is currently recorded in the Civil Law or even if it is recorded in the Constitution... until this new rental law is contested in the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U145	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U146	Colleagues! Honorary Head of the sitting! Good afternoon! I am in favour of this proposal... I would like to draw attention to what the Legal Office of the Saeima has wanted to say. I fully share the position of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima in this regard and I believe that this proposal has not been partly supported. What does the second reading rule provide? The norm supported at second reading provides that, in the event of the death of the tenant, the members of the tenant’s family have the right to renew the tenant’s lease agreement within three months without changing the terms of the previous tenant’s lease agreement, however, for a period not exceeding 10 years. What the Legal Office of the Saeima offers (and I also believe it!) - that this agreement should be renewed in full. If this contract... and if there are these long contracts that are longer than 10 years... there have been any conditions between the two parties why such an agreement has been concluded at all... If these two parties have agreed, for example, that the rental agreement is for 25 years... and there's no small number of such contracts... 25 years... and this rental contract may also have been paid a certain amount of money when it is concluded... and there are contracts like this when they pay some amount of money immediately and then rent it for a smaller amount of money... contract... 25 years... In this case, if such a contract is concluded, then... following the next proposal, which is already a Commission proposal and where it is said that it is partly supported... is expected to be if the tenant... five years... In this 25-year-old example... If a tenant dies five years later and his wife or children want to continue this lease, the law requires them to be fully entitled... right, they can continue this. But here it is very clear that the term of rental should not exceed 10 years for this renewed contract. I think that's not acceptable. Now is the third reading, it is the last moment that we can correct this inconsistency with the law, and it would be very right if we did so. I believe that the proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima has not been partly supported; it has been rejected because the very essence is at the very end, where the Legal Bureau of the Saeima has also indicated... including the duration of the contract, including the terms of the contract... not to mention this maximum time limit. This maximum period of 10 years is in no way justified by any logical considerations in this case. This is not about the denationalised... here is about absolutely any rental contract that you or someone else would have concluded for a longer period of time. And if the contractor dies, then in this case this succession does not take place to the full extent of the contract. In principle, this contract loses its meaning, its value and does not analyse the conditions under which it was concluded at all. If we are talking about these old contracts for someone who was 90 years old, there were the conditions for these contracts to be 90, 100 years old. And this contract also has value... a contract of 90, 100 years. In this case... or this Saeima... with this proposal, the value of this contract is substantially reduced - substantially reduced! - and no kind of compensation in this situation is received by the public. Colleagues, this proposal is very important. I call for this proposal from the Saeima's Legal Office to be supported and for it to be rejected by the committee responsible. The rapporteur might perhaps explain what kind of compensation... or how they reached the age of 10 years. Colleagues, I think this is one of the draft laws... one of the risks of a breach of conspiracy. I will draw attention to this, as the Legal Office of the Saeima has drawn attention to. We have talked about this before. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U147	I closed the debate. Mr. Budrik, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U148	On behalf of the Commission, I can only mention that the opinions expressed in the Commission... Essentially, this 10-year period... The Legal Bureau also indicated that this was a political decision. This proposal is therefore partly supported and included in the next proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U149	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 22. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! For - 30, for - 41, for - 10. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U150	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U151	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U152	Colleagues! I would like to highlight this somewhat less positive new approach to the parliamentary debate that has taken place... In a way, it happened today... and in advance. I think when the commission reports on behalf of the Commission, it would be good if... This opinion sounded more clearly from the point of view of the debate and I would have been happy to discuss it. What... The Saeima's Legal Bureau had submitted a proposal... it was black on white written that... Saeima Legal Office... The proposal contained: deadlines to be removed. It was not a political decision. Any political settlement... This cannot be the case in such matters, but must be justified. There have been judgments of the Constitutional Court about this. The decisions of this same commission... The Constitutional Court annulled precisely because such a choice of terms... the choice has been without any justification. Ten years... the following proposal, which is made here... the inheritance... contract... you may switch it, all provisions may remain the same as before, except for a period which may not exceed 10 years. In my opinion, there is a huge lobby of houseowners. In this respect, it forgets... It forgets how these contracts were concluded at all. And it forgets an important part: that money may have been paid for these contracts, there may have been other circumstances, another way in which the owner of the householder at all... I've been to this house property... and how he has agreed with the owners of the apartments without buying it by concluding such lease agreements. There are different circumstances. That is a political solution: I absolutely cannot join in such a position, and I believe that the Saeima's Legal Office has not expressed that position either. If there's one, I'm sorry, I didn't hear that. I see what is written. Posted in: The position of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima is that to remove this restriction - 10 years. That was a very specific proposal from the Saeima Legal Bureau, colleagues. I call on you to take part in this debate, at least to justify it, because once again I draw attention to this draft law: there have been countless societies following it all the time, there have been pickets outside the Saeima, months long pickets, every time the draft law was examined, people came, protested, followed, asked for a verbatim report. I admit that many of the norms of this law will be challenged in the Constitutional Court. In my opinion, there is a much greater justification that is necessary, because I believe that there has not been sufficient justification in the Commission for setting these 10 years. I still believe that this is not the right direction to go - to restrict the rights of one party. The whole draft law looks like such a large bill of houseowners' lobby. I will talk about this later, but this particular provision, in my opinion, is greatly exaggerated. Of course, in the center of Riga it would be a very delicious meal for certain entrepreneurs - such a norm of law, introduction of such a norm of law. And, of course, the value of their assets will increase significantly. You can already see some signs of lobbying, but, my colleagues, you are following these lobbys. Open your eyes and see what these contracts are... What this provision will mean for the population to which it will apply! For others, maybe it will be the only property, the only dwelling, the family dwelling that they will have in this case - a loved one, the owner of the rental contract, in case of death... For his loved ones, this will mean a 10-year term... that they have to leave these apartments despite the fact that these contracts may be for 20-30 years... irrespective of the circumstances under which these contracts have been concluded. I call on you to reject this proposal or come on behalf of a commission which... Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry, no matter who... come and try to explain why these 10 years are. That's the explanation. It's not... only political views. On the political point. The Constitutional Court has already indicated to us at least twice what political opinion on such issues... that the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government has so decided... These provisions are repealed. And in this case, too, I would like to call for a 'no' vote, because there was no such justification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U153	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U154	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I partly agree with what Mr Valaiņa said about the fact that this bill is undoubtedly the result of lobbying, but not this article and not this proposal. Why? It's a pure intervention in private relations because... Those who followed the draft law, the progress of the examination, perhaps remember that the original version of the Ministry of Economics provided that no rental contract could be concluded for a period of more than 10 years. After a long debate, however, the norm disappeared, but it floated here again. Why? Only because the Ministry of Economics has no other instrument to promote the development of the rental housing sector, as stated in the explanatory memorandum to the bill. There is no economic leverage, there is no financial leverage, only administrative means are provided. And that's one of them. I do not think that the householders will be happy to receive this norm. I do not think that they will also be very unhappy if such a norm appears, because, to be honest, their interests are not affected. This simply limits the relationship between tenants and tenants, no less and no more. That proposal, which is here, is not logical, is not justified. To be honest, it is stupid - as unfortunately, a number of things related to the creation of this law. Therefore, I would urge you not to support this Commission proposal, because it is really one of the objects of the dispute that may reach the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U155	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U156	Thank you, Mr Dolgopolov, for your opinion. I cannot agree with you in that it could be particularly disadvantageous for a householder. I think that there is a whole range of household owners in the center of Riga who are waiting for it when such a norm enters into force, and in a way will mark some time frame, when they could have access to these apartments without compensation to terminate these apartment rental agreements. That is also what I draw attention to. The question was... One is these old contracts, which are 90 years old and over, but I have also, in particular, highlighted these 20-25 year lease agreements because people have approached me by sending letters explaining this situation. Very, very concrete... These ten-year leases, 15-year leases... When they close, people pay money. People pay money today for having such a rental contract in the future, agreeing with the owner. This proposal is a direct intervention in the operation of these contracts. But there are. You can't deny that they are. What will we do then when a person has inherited a lease contract of another 20 years? The family has taken account of this, and then will open this “fine” law and see that, forgive me, not 20, but 10 years. And I'm sorry, our savings that we paid to conclude such a contract... they're... This law does not speak of them. Since I am calling for this proposal to be rejected, this is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U157	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U158	Thank you, Madam President. I'm opposed to Mr. Valaiņa. Yes, owners are waiting for this law, indeed, but they may argue, or this verse or other verse. Above all, they look forward to those verses and norms that lighten them... get rid of tenants. This is the main aim of this law – to expand the possibility for tenants to settle with their tenants by all legal methods. I completely join you, Mr Valaiņš, in saying that this provision is not only not to be supported; it is to be rejected by its very nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U159	The name of Member Regina Lochmele. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U160	In the vote on this proposal, Members of the Group will abstain, pointing out that this provision is not acceptable. However, on the other hand, it is currently the only rule that, as I have already emphasised, will allow at least family members to switch to the same terms of the rental contract, with the exception of the term of the rental contract, which is currently limited to 10 years. Given that this provision is currently the only one that at least allows family members to die after the tenant's death... I repeat, once again, only family members who, within the meaning of this law, could be considered only to be the spouse of the tenant and the minor children... That is the only such rule. Abstention: this, in my view, would be the only possible option, given that you, despite all the arguments from both my side and from Mr Dolgopolova, could have supported those rules which would have extended the range of family members, or at least support the proposal of the Legal Bureau... You didn't do that. This norm, which really raises, let us say, big questions about its constituencies, must not be voted on in this case, but unfortunately it is the only thing that... That is why we will abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U161	I closed the debate. Mr. Budrik, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U162	I can mention that this version has been improved... Second Reading... the text voted, which was indeed... Only related family members. However, if we look at the table, then... At the moment it is in accordance with the provisions of Section 14 of this Law... to the whole article... So also the third part that I mentioned, where it is said that other posted persons, if there is an agreement with the tenant... Therefore, on behalf of the Commission, honourable colleagues, I call for support 23. - the Commission's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U163	Please call me! We will vote in favour 23. - Proposal submitted by the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government! Please vote mode! For - 54, for - 7 and for - 22. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U164	Thank you. 24. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Mr Miezaiņa, which provides for a new part and stipulates that the member of the tenant's family, as well as another person who has been placed in custody and who has renewed this contract, is obliged to cover the rent not paid by the former tenant and other payments related to the rental of living space. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U165	Proposal 24 has been partly supported and incorporated 25. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U166	I'm sorry. I am sorry, Madam President. Yes, it includes 25. - the Commission's proposal. And 25. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U167	Thank you. We launched a debate on proposal 24. The name of Member Regina Lochmele. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U168	Talking about this proposal and in general about the context of this new rental law, legal... and in general on the spirit of this new law, it is my duty as member of the Saeima to point out the following. The Constitution of the Republic of Latvia establishes the right to housing for every citizen of Latvia. The Constitution also says that the Republic of Latvia is a country that protects its citizens socially. Several European organisations and the OECD have pointed out that housing issues are social protection issues, that housing regulation must not be excluded from social protection issues. In our climate, Latvia, the Nordic country, housing is also a matter of life. In Latvia, a person who has no housing will simply be unable to survive because we have cold, snow, and here, unfortunately, people cannot stay under bridges. So housing is a matter of social protection. Proposal 24, which has been partly supported... If you read it carefully... it provides that not only the members of the tenant’s family but also other posted persons who will renew the lease in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Article shall be obliged to cover the rent not paid by the former tenant and other charges related to the use of the dwelling. I support this approach, I would just like to point out that, on matters relating to people's right to... Mr. Valaiņš, for example, talked about... the length of the previous contract, we say - no, but with regard to payment, we say - yes. This law was really necessary to improve the relationship between the tenant and the renter, but this social protection spirit has disappeared. In particular, this spirit has disappeared when it comes to the tenants of denationalized houses. Proposals relating to the future fate of the tenants of these denationalised houses, still ahead. Although it is known how the ruling coalition will vote... But I would like to tell you immediately that the spirit of social protection in this law is very weak. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U169	Mr. Valains, will you have enough two minutes?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U170	Yeah, in this case, I'll have two minutes. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U171	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U172	Thank you. Colleagues! I think that what Mrs Lochmele said shows what the spirit of this draft law is. We will still have the opportunity to talk much more about when we come to other proposals that will only be in front of us, but this, in particular, is already very clear about the fact that the previous law was created on the basis of the protection of tenants' rights, whereas this law is created on the basis of the very specific defence of the rights of the tenants. Here, too, we see what will happen if these heirs... contract heirs will not have the money to pay those debts at that time, those utilities that have accumulated because in all cases they can already happen... It may be that they live there from the time the person died until the rights of the inheritance have been established. If there is still a dispute there, it may take some time. And there may be situations where people are not dealing with these specific payments. In this case, it will be another obstacle to the renewal of these agreements, of course, for the benefit of the owners. It will still be a big question - who will be the main beneficiary of this draft law... Law. That is why this proposal... I will not vote in favour of this proposal. However, this proposal is a very clear illustration of the nature of this draft law, which will appear even more specifically in other proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U173	I closed the debate. Mr. Budrik, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U174	Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission. The proposal has been partly supported, so I would like to reject it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2202-U175	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 24. - Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics Jurģis Miezaiņš' proposal! Please vote mode! For - 18, for - 51, for - 9. The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. It's time for the next break. I remind you that the Saeima Bureau called... and all of you have also been sent an information message that we will start to review the agenda of the third remote emergency session of 25 February 2021, namely the Ombudsman's report for 2020. I would also like to inform you that the Saeima Bureau has received a request from Members Latkovska, Adamovich, Kalniņa, Asheraden and Čakša to declare a break in the parliamentary's second extraordinary sitting on 25 February until 9 a.m. on 4 March. We must vote on this. Please enable Mode... on the procedure. No one has applied to speak. Please vote mode! We will vote for a break in this sitting, February 25, in the second extraordinary sitting of the Saeima, until 9 a.m. 4 March! Please, let's vote! No, 73, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So in this second remote 25 February emergency session, the rest would be up to 9:00 a.m. on 4 March. And, my colleagues, after a break, at 3:30, and we'll come to the third remote sitting of the Saeima on February 25th. Only the registration of participants... for the whole axis. It's been a success. Interruption until 3.30 p.m. This sitting is open until 9 a.m. on 4 March. ( Interruption)
