ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U1	Dear colleagues, The third remote emergency sitting started on 4 February 2021. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Personal Documents” be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the Member Andreja Klementyeva, Sergeja Dolgopolova, Igora Pimenova, Viktora Valaiņa and Vital Orlov be referred to the Legal Commission by means of the draft law ‘Amendments to the parliamentary order roll’, stating that it is the committee responsible. Members have applied for a debate. ‘ Against’ applied to speak Member Krišjānis Feldmans. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U2	Hello! So... Members of the Saeima! I wanted to draw your attention, as you say, to the fact that this particular draft law is potentially unconstitutional. In this respect, I must point out that Article 32 of the Satversme allows ministers to be members of the Saeima at the same time. Such an approach is based on the ancient traditions of parliamentaryism, as pointed out by constitutional law experts. It would therefore be manifestly wrong to set, at the level of the law, an opposite rule, i.e. a conflicting rule, which would in fact create such a legal conflict with the Constitution. Here, too, it cannot be denied that the positions of Members and Ministers are potentially very difficult to reconcile, but it should be remembered that they are paid one salary rather than two. And there's also one other thing that's that, taking into account... As a result of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of Public Officials, compensation for ministers who have chosen to retain their parliamentary mandate should also not be potentially paid. This is still permitted at the moment, and the legitimate public has drawn attention to this. Therefore, rather in this case it would be necessary to make a correction or, accordingly, it would be necessary to amend the Satversme. But here is also the question of the political traditions that exist in Latvia. I was very embarrassed by the fact that this bill has been signed by Viktors Valainis. Well, the word of honour, I was very confused, because it was Mr Belēvičs, the Minister of the FAO, at his time, who did not hesitate to remember me, that was the one who did not impose a Member's mandate and received a proper public condemnation. Then the question is, what has changed? Has the attitude changed? What has prompted Mr. Valaiņa to submit the following... to sign an anti-constitutional bill? And then will his party avoid such situations? Well, I'd love to hear the explanation. In general, I must say that voters have the right and, in fact, the duty to make their assessments in all future elections on such situations. There may be voters who simply praise him for combining the office of a Member with that of a Minister and saying: "Well, where there can be even more able to do two things at the same time - sit, for example, in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission and minister in times of crisis!" But there may be other voters. And they say, “Well, now or at all, the situation is crazy, and you should do your basic work much more qualitatively.” So that's what the public has to do... and the whole set of citizens. It's by no means... Let us say that these rights should somehow be deprived by potentially providing an anti-constitutional bill. In addition, there is such a duality, because, as I said, Mr. Valaiņš has experience in the party precisely with such cases, so I am surprised. And immediately Mr. Clementyev will come here and say: “No, the Constitution... Whatever... We don't care that there is an anti-constitutional bill, just pass it on. We're... Please, please, otherwise you can't... There are times where welfare ministers and I can't work there." Well, however, the Constitution should be respected in this case. I therefore call for the 'no' vote and, in general, perhaps for a bill to be tabled or for the parliamentary order to be opened up to amend the question of compensation for Members who also fulfil their ministerial duties. That would, I think, be correct against society and also save taxpayers' money. Thank you for your attention. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U3	Mr Andrejs Klementjevs has applied for a speech about it. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U4	Good morning, honourable Members! I'm glad my colleague went into the bill. We each have a Constitution on the table - an opposition or a Member... or support the government... But we know... and I will also help my colleagues that it is not only Article 32, but also Article 63. We have gone very far in that process and we believe that if we support our proposal today, then, of course, next week, we will also present amendments to the Constitution. It is the Legal Commission, which is responsible for the two draft laws, that will be able to balance, and that is nothing new. But we will talk about principles. And we have three principles of power-sharing. In the specific situation, I cannot understand how one person can be both an executive and a legislative representative: that is an infringement. You understand that it is not only about salary, about money, about compensation, but about principles. Specially divided into these powers to be able to compete with each other and balance their best products. And in this context, I believe that in this particular proposal, we will come out of the situation that a particular person does not understand that power should be shared. But if we're talking about this situation with the individual... which is also described very precisely in the annotation. We have problems with Members Ramon Petravič and Ministers Ramon Petravič. I'll tell you what. Let us assume that the budget is a very important document, the main financial document for the coming year. Ramona Petraviča was sitting at the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) and did not participate in the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, where he presented the entire large block of social security, proving that their model is better and fully complies with the rulings of the Constitutional Court. Today we are already seeing problems. Today, the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance" is on the agenda. The law that we adopted in December, which came into force on 1 January, is already being amended - not a month has passed. This means that from the Ministry of Welfare, a brother was presented and the absence of the Minister for Welfare at that meeting of the Social and Labour Affairs Commission was also proof that she could not explain to us and could not present this particular draft law. And today, in 32 days, we're trying to fix something -- it's not good! That's why we're totally... Today we see this problem. I do not know what the fisheries policy is a tradition, but they will support this draft law, knowing that the Member cannot combine these positions. One. Second. You understand, let's assume, in this particular situation, Ramona Petraviča, following the draft law that we have submitted... Two hours later, he placed a mandate. Instantly, she came up with the result - after two or three days she applied for a meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs. Yesterday there was a sitting, over 100 minutes we had the opportunity to talk to him about the current issues in the sector. We talked about the importance of her participation in the Social and Labour Commission for almost one and a half hours, more. We have not seen these ministers for more than a year. Think of you: the sectoral commission responsible for such difficult issues has not seen ministers for a year during the pandemic. And yesterday, after she set her mandate, she could take part in the meeting. I think that the quality of the law will also improve, because the legislators are sitting not only to receive pay or compensation, but also to give their ideas and transform them through draft laws and help the industry. I therefore think that today is not about compensation, about Ramon Petravič or about a Member who cannot choose which chair to sit on, but about quality. Today we see all the evidence... what we will do next today on the agenda... that no man can combine two posts. I am ready to discuss and submit constitutional amendments if you support my proposal today. And it's not a matter of political jealousy... whether it has been submitted by the FAO, the SAC or the New Conservative Group. The main thing is that voters today demand from us that we work for all 100 percent, not 50 for the Minister and 50 for the Member. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U5	One Member has spoken against, one for. Please call me! We will vote for the handover to the Legal Commission of the draft law tabled by Andrejs Klementyeva, Sergeja Dolgopolova, Igora Pimenova, Viktors Valaiņa and Vitaly Orlovs "Amendments to the parliamentary order roll"! Please, let's vote! For - 24, for - 56, for - 2. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. On the agenda - under the heading ‘Transfer of draft laws to commissions and hearings at first reading’. Draft law “Amendments to the law “On Personal Income Tax””. For the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy... Who's going to referencing? Please! We propose that this draft law be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, making it a responsible commission. Do Members have objections? The name to Member Ralph Nemir. Please! Are you going to talk about or against?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U6	Yes, the honourable head of the sitting! So...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U7	Mr. Nemir, are you going to talk about it or 'no'?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U8	I will talk about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U9	Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U10	So this issue - "Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax" - is linked to a very recent draft law which, in such a simpler way, could be explained as a question of share options. And this question... in this bill, when considering... such a very good regulation, but there needs to be another precision. And it is about bank and financial sector employees, who are also eligible for share options in this case, and this framework needs to be clarified. That is why I would call for this draft law to be passed on to the Commission and for urgent action to be taken accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U11	The Commission has recognised this draft law as an urgent measure. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Education, Culture and Science Commission (Interface: “No!” ) Draft law on Amendments to the Law on General Education (Interdependence.) ... I'm sorry. Colleagues, please excuse me. We are starting to look at this draft law at first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ralph Nemiro. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U12	Yes, the honourable head of the sitting! I have thus outlined in advance the exact content of this draft law. The law on share options has already entered into force. At the moment, we are clarifying major and such changes that were not really taken into account at the time we were looking at the draft law commission. At the moment, this issue has also been agreed with the Ministry of Finance, in the Commission, when we discussed the draft law at the so-called zero reading, we also listened to the Financial Sector Association, and the Commission therefore supported these clarifications. I therefore ask for this draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U13	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” as urgent! Please, let's vote! ( The sound is broken.) ... Not applicable. The draft law has been declared urgent. The draft law is therefore being examined at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U14	Yes, on behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U15	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U16	Dear President, As we have listened to the financial sector within the framework of the draft law, which has also spoken to the Ministry of Finance, and there have been no objections in this case, in fact, we are working more now on a set of draft laws and a package of existing stock options, where these two nuances have not been taken into account. There are no objections either. I will also ask for this draft law to be examined at second reading without a re-examination by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U17	Are Members opposed to the second, final, reading of the draft law? There is no objection by Members. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Personal Income Tax””! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education” submitted by the Commission on Education, Culture and Science, with a proposal to hand it over to the Commission on Education, Culture and Science, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. See ‘Amendments to the Law on General Education’ in the draft law. Name of the Education, Culture and Science Commission. Please! Name to Member Edgar Kucin.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U18	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Education, Culture and Science has prepared draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education” (No. 913/Lp13). I would remind you that paragraph 47 of the Transitional Provisions of the General Education Law came into force on 11 June 2020, which requires the Cabinet of Ministers to develop new regulations of the Cabinet on the granting and cancellation of state gymnasium status. At the same time, this paragraph provides that until 31 December 2023 the status of the state gymnasium shall not be granted to an educational institution in order to ensure the development of the activities of the national gymnasium. The Education, Culture and Science Commission found that, by adopting paragraph 47 of the Transitional Provisions of the General Education Act, when it was not known about 2019/2020. Results of the central examinations of the school year, a conflict of legal norms has arisen with paragraph 29 of the transitional provisions of the Law on General Education, which provides that the status of the municipal gymnasium in the municipalities may still be established until 1 September 2021. The conflict of laws precludes educational institutions from obtaining the status of ‘national gymnasium’ that they intended to do on the basis of previous procedures and criteria. In view of this, paragraphs 48 and 49 of the General Education Act, which provide for an exception to the restriction contained in the second sentence of paragraph 47 of the transitional provisions, have been drawn up. The proposal also provides for the possibility for an education institution to qualify for the status of national gymnasium in 2021 if the educational institution had taken action to obtain the status of national gymnasium by 10 June 2020. This means that an educational institution is entitled to submit to the Ministry of Education and Science, by 31 May 2021, an application for the granting of the status of ‘national gymnasium’ to an educational institution if it has complied with the requirements set out in point 48 of the proposed transitional provisions. However, point 49 of the Transitional Regulations indicates that the Ministry of Education and Science shall, within one month of receipt of the said document, assess the compliance of the educational institution with the established criteria. If the educational institution meets the requirements set forth in Article 48 of transitional provisions of this Law, the status of the state gymnasium shall be granted to the educational institution by the Cabinet of Ministers on the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science taking into account the funding provided for in the state budget. The draft law has been prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Science, the Latvian Education and Science Workers' Union, the Latvian Association of Education Managers and the Latvian Local Government Union. The Commission unanimously supported the draft law on Amendments to the General Education Act and asked that it be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U19	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education”! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U20	On behalf of the Commission, I ask the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U21	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the General Education Law! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U22	Colleagues! On behalf of the Commission, I ask the Saeima to support the draft law at second, final, reading without re-examination by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U23	Please call me! ( Interface: “Does anyone have objections? ” ) Do Members have objections? There is no objection. We will vote in favour of the bill "Amendments to the General Education Act"! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision on consent to prosecution against 13. Saeima Member Artus Neiminius’. Member of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications Raivis Dzintars. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U24	Hello, honourable members of the Bureau. Dear Members, On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 17 and point 2 of the first paragraph of Article 179 of the Rules of Procedure of the Saeima, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications on 16 December 2020, also at its meeting on 19 January and 27 January this year, the General Prosecutor’s Office considered the application for consent to the initiation of criminal prosecution against 13. Member of the Saeima Artus Kaimiņš who has been accused in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 217 of the Criminal Law on the violation of the rules on accounting and statistical information. After hearing the representative of the Prosecutor's Office, as well as 13. Member of the Saeima, Artus Neiminina and his lawyer, members of the Commission, voting with 10 votes in favour, two against and two abstentions, supported the draft decision drawn up by the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application "On consent to the opening of criminal proceedings against 13. Saeima Member Artus Neiminius’. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft Saeima decision prepared by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U25	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U26	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! I would like to use the third paragraph of Rule 64 set out in the parliamentary roll, and I would ask for my speaking time to be extended to 13 minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U27	Please do Members have objections to extending the speaking time of the Member's neighbour? Please apply if Members have objections. There is no objection by Members. Please! Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U28	And there were no objections to this either. As the rapporteur, Mr Dzintars, has just said, it is a violation of accounting and statistical documents. The first paragraph of Article 217 expresses it from its point of view. Dear colleagues, Dear Latvian Saeima viewers, observers, listeners! There is no case-law in which such an article has been considered at all. Not in practice. There was no such thing, especially in the Criminal Law. That's it. I asked for more time for me to have such a quieter conversation and talk, because I have to talk about myself and I always have to talk about myself. But then the beginning is about that the first thing I'd like to mark, my colleagues... I took advantage of my rights under the Constitution and invited my lawyer Normunds Duļevski to the Commission for Mandate, Ethics and Application. We received a request from the Saeima on 29 October 2020 from Mr Stukan, the new Prosecutor General of Latvia for my extradition in connection with the first paragraph of Section 217. And then it is now 4 February 2021. I'd like to tell you immediately why it took so long. Because the prosecutor, who is a prosecutor of particularly important cases, his name, Maris Urbans, was very often unable to attend the sittings of our commission because he had to judge in other courts with Member Juris Jušas. But in other courts, Mr. Urban has to judge Atty Zakaistov. Mr. Urbana is a requested prosecutor, I am looking at it. I believe, and we also found in the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application that these Mr. Urban... In principle, it brings cases to the Saeima, these documents, as well as on 20 January 2018... June, when I was released for shaking... The prosecutor has lied and he has lied to the Saeima. And if the prosecutor had lied once in this case of extradition for illegal party financing, for which I was also issued without any request - Members issued me... In fact, the name of the Member did not even appear on the tabl, and he did not even know what is being published - whether it's a man or a woman at all - because it's just the extradition of a Member in criminal proceedings... for this shaking... In particular, Article 29 of the Satversme - it is about shaking. Article 30 of the Satversme is about the Saeima deciding to extradite a Member for prosecution. How did we go with the Mandate, ethics and application commission? We had, in my opinion, three or four sittings where we and the lawyer showed Members that the prosecutor had brought to the Saeima very selectively the proposed evidence that is in favour of him, but these evidence that is in favour of me - they have not even been submitted. We submitted them separately. And it was a very great surprise why it. This case has been prepared from time on the head of the neck, and this is an absolute political order. I believe that the political order came from Aivars Lembergs and the ZZS he represents... parties or associations of parties. In any case, I have never hidden my prejudices against this citizen. Well, I didn't want to think that KNAB could be an order table where any influential person can order criminal proceedings against a loud Member in the Saeima. But unfortunately, it turns out to me that this has happened. So when I was betrayed for persecution... No, but, apologies, for shaking, I spent the whole day driving in several homes, i.e. in my home I had to search, and my grandmother had to search, my mom wanted to search, but there was a wrong address. For in such a hurry everything was done that even the address was not correctly written, and the law forbids foreign addresses without a warrant to search, at least for the time being. So my place of work - I have an office in the Saeima - was not looked at, nothing was opened there, even the door was not opened, my car was not looked at, nothing like that, because in fact there was a need for intimidation... such a terrorist act that we'll show you your place, boy, we'll show you! And so I live a year with this verse, Paragraph 217, third, I suppose it... In serious crimes, I became a accused person, and for a year I was walking around with such a dullness. Well, it's not easy to be on the floor in the media space of Latvia, where you have a priori been collected as a criminal without any justifications, evidence and so on. It can endure, but it is not easy, but I do not recommend that you - none of your Members. But last night, on February 2, the Prosecutor General was present at our Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, and I quote what he said: “The Stukan KNAB also made criticism of the case of the Saeima Member Artus Kaimina: “Not a show, and then for three years we cannot figure out what the village could indict. Three KNAB investigators, five prosecutors, and dreams are sitting in charge of formulating the charge. They made a show. In some cases, this is the result of the work." “ Dear Members! That's what the Prosecutor General said last night. It's available in the media. What, though, is this? There are 100 members in the Saeima. With this thing I met yesterday in Special Records, is for us in the Saeima. Of all 100 Members, 21 people have met the matter. Ten of them must be introduced, and they are members of the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Applications, while the rest are 11. Well, perhaps the resolution had to be signed by the Speaker of the Saeima, so, well, and now another ten, who have tried to get to know. The other 79 with this thing... not familiar with the materials. I'm not going to tell you the case, because I can only tell you one thing that, well, it's very strange that you change the charge three times. That's what Mr. Stuwan had already said in his quote... From the beginning a person accused of serious crimes - a party illegally a guy has funded. Then I realize there can't find anything, the entied people were interrogated, all the potential accountants, companies, and what's not yet what's around me ever... or I haven't been able to see or know... no matter what, absolutely everyone is interrogated. It's a year. Then they realize that this does not happen, and I read in the media that this case has been closed. Next goes an action about my personal company SIA “dogs būda”. It's where the accounting will be checked. Okay. That's the first thing I'm going to do, I'm not charged with serious crimes anymore. Okay. I've been living for a year with the fact that now I'm accounting for my company... because I am a true beneficiary of the company “dog-dog-dog” Ltd. Nothing's coming out there, either. The prosecutor is sent this case to KNAB, the prosecutor's office is sent back because there is insufficient evidence. Again, they ask the same people and others. Looking for something. Looking for, looking for, looking for, and - Sheka Reck! Dear 79 Members, who have not met this case, this case is based on the counterfeiting of accounting statistics documents in a foreign company. The company with which I... Well, whose accounting tells me that I've led that I've counted salaries for those people, that I've led their records and that's not. And this has been the case in 2015 and until 2016. It is now 2021. Then it happens that there will be a man for you, and we will find the verse for you. Such an Article has not been dealt with at all in the case law of the Court, the first paragraph of Article 217 has not been, it must have been the administrative procedure, if anything at all. Those who have ever had a connection with companies at all as such know very well that accounting errors of some kind exist, in my view, in any company... That's it. But that's not what it's about. On the mandate, ethics and application commission, on the team, on where I am, where I am. The first such driving force was Raivis Dzintars, this same member of my team - so I am in a coalition - has applied for a presentation on this issue, which is very loud and has led to a broad resonance in society. And Raivim Dzintar had an unpleasant surprise, if I remember correctly, that this decision led to a replacement of 65 percent of the Members 13. In the family, because... for it was, many new parties were indwelt: both my represented, and the Development/About. , BIP, and this change was really big - is this once again a political bonus for the Neighbourhood if we give him? So, Ryvis... Well, Raivi Dzintar, to “you” this time. Well, I'm in a hospital a year ago, I'm in such a bad situation, I'm on fire, and you're sending my driver, your car after, so I'm going to the Saeima to vote, and I'm saying that's what I'm supposed to do. It was the right decision to drive and vote in favour of releasing the Riga City Council. This one voice was needed. I voted, I did not regret it. I came with a catheter in the foot of the hospital chamber and went back. Thank you for the driver. It is a year ago, Raivi Dzintar, and you yourself are the natural gasker in that commission, that you will sooner consider: “We are not the court. We are not the court.” And you also apply as rapporteur. Ainars Latkovsky, the leader of the Group's Young Unity, said two sentences that this all resembles the events of 2011 when Shleser was not released for search and then Zatler's report... No, but Order No. Two, and released the Saeima. So Latkovsky even compares me to Shleser. I don't know - to rejoice or to weep. Then let’s assume “Development/About!” representatives, Mr Skride. I ask Mr Skride why did you vote like that? Well, what... What... Is that so? We put a political order on your tray with a lawyer! - See this evidence here? You tell me personally: “Yes, Artus, I’m on your side, I know it really is, but I can’t vote differently. For me, the group's decision is that." And then I have a question. Mr. Skride, Mr. Stein, Mr. Durish, well, if you have a group decision, let's make sure that Mrs Golubeva will tell you to jump out of the group's window, you will jump? What then did you take that oath in this party - a group to carry out its duties as a Member for the best consciousness - or did you give it to the Latvian people as a Member, as an individual? I shall add, if I may, my second part of the debate, the chair of the sitting, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U29	Please! The time for your debate is combined.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U30	Here we go. And that is the question of the fact that the political groups have long decided how to vote, how to vote, and I am not going to convince anyone here. But, who's also about that team, I think, so that's... For the first time I received this, I sent in an e-mail all this absurdity - because I was accused for the first time in two years - to Andrejs Judin as a lawyer who I think has an understanding of legal issues. And I say, " Andrey, what do you think about it?" Well, Andrey writes to me... calling, and we are talking, and he says that this is a very shadowing event - what is written there - that it does not honor the prosecutor's office and does not create, and that this change of articles and so on, that it all looks bad. So fifty-fifty, 50 vs. 50. Andrey was also surprised about this here. Well, I had some legal insight from a lawyer. I'm not a lawyer myself. Then it all works... This is... In particular, there is a vote in the Committee on Mandates, ethics and applications, Members vote, thanks to those four Members who voted against or did not vote. They were both representatives of the UKP and of the USA. And Andrejs first, in my opinion, calls the Members and begins to gather votes so that the neighbor has enough to cast them out. Come on, Andrej! Is that what the team does?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You know what's different, let's say, a coalition from the opposition? With the opposition all the time stands one for all, all for one. They're standing here. And when there's a coalition, it's like you're all the time... You're told, well, we're doing... We're putting you on these... We beat your filth here, hang you on the altar... so-called... a donation, well, and here's the next one, ready for your place to go. That's terrible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U31	Mr President, your debate is over. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “I still... “ The name to the Member Aldim Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U32	I ask you to combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U33	Your times are united. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U34	Dear Society! Dear colleagues! I will try to restore what I said to the Mandate, ethics and application commission, respectively. You all know what I mean about Artus Neighbours. You all know that Artus Kaimiņš betrayed me, betrayed me not only as colleagues in the party, but also as a friend, as he called me. He betrayed all of you who voted for him. And I have reason to call him a traitor. As I approach emotionally, I should say today: the traitor has to be punished and he has to be extradited. But at the same time, I have promised society to be just in every situation I'm talking about. In this situation too, whatever I do not want, I must be fair. And right is the legal side. Legally, Artuss Kaimiņš was detained for the illegal financing of the party, although Artuss Kaimiņš has never financed the party illegally or legally, he himself had to finance it in various ways. It's probably her... I do not know that, but given his close links with the Meroni people, it is quite clear that something has already been there, but it has had no connection with the party. And it is quite clear that in 2018 there was a show aimed at destroying one political force that entered Parliament and it had absolutely nothing to do with the evidence base at that time. Today's result is that... and it's a legal problem that in Latvia you can change those articles, like the desires that really... in fact it would probably not be... In view of the origin of this case, it is clear that Mr. Kaimiņš should not be released and should vote against, despite the fact that Mr. Kaimiņš has betrayed his constituents, society, and his friends. I would call for a 'no' vote if we approach legally, because it would be fair. And to my words - because I know that I am voting in favour of the 'yes' coalition for the extradition of Artuss Village, the village which has long held a gold voice for this coalition and thanks to which there is the Kariņš government and all the decisions that have been made against the people - I would like to appeal to Member Artuss Village and say: Artus, today is the day when you will have to enjoy the medicine that you yourself have allowed your constituents to enjoy, which you have allowed all the people who believed in you. Today you will be betrayed by those to whom you have given power before the elections so say that you will take them away. Today, those who have turned against the people for a long time and who have trusted you will hand you over, because they have created the respective crafts and so on. Yes, it will be legally unfair, because you have no legal basis for extradition. Emotionally, you have to experience this moment, because it may well teach you in the future how it is to be a traitor and how the betrayer is treated by those who will betray you. Remember that, Artus! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U35	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U36	Good afternoon, Saeima Colleagues! Well, I'm... in this title... For the first time, a Member of the Saeima, but I am already starting to ask whether there will be a parliamentary term when someone will not ask Artus's Village to be extradited for prosecution. Artuss Neighbours, of course, was a very undesirable person 12. In the Saeima, I allowed with my mini-video camera to film those Members who, for objective reasons, are no longer present in this - 13. - The Saeima. And here to me, focusing on the content of the case, really these things... This new formulation, with which I understand 80 percent of the Saeima Members have not met at all because it seemed to be of little importance to them, is, let us say, rather comical to me as a private businessman, because, for example, it says that Kaimiņš has actually led the company and had to be responsible for accounting, even though it is well known that the Commercial Law states that the board is responsible for the accounting of the company. So there's a variety of things there... Well, it's pretty funny. I must say the following: we, the young Conservatives, have also voted in favour of the release of Zakatistov, because it also seemed to me, as someone working in the private sector, now, you know, very marked, let us say so. And there were such documents... Well, then there was a lot... by the way, perhaps even stronger that thing to some extent. And again, when it comes to the political situation. Well, I have to say that there's no wonder that 12. At the Saeima, he issued a Neighbours, because at that time he had already told one of the “hutems” in the “Riga TV 24” label objectively interrupted the performance of the program, so it probably all started... his days with criminal prosecutions. I am impressed by the hypocrisy of New Unity when I compare Artus with Shlesser. It's comical. I think that this disliked the roots of Artus Neighbours are more to be found in his camera 12. Solvita Āboltiņa was flying and irritated in the family. I'm... Yes, but YOUNG Unity is hypocritical, it has always been. Then I really think comic “Development/About!” the potential vote in favour of this extradition, because they have just debated loudly against Navaly... sanctions against Navaly, an opposition in Russia. Well, I think it is such a pronounced hypocrisy, a duality in fact, which is also “development/for!” is a very, very topical phenomenon. And who else was the greatest opponent? Well, let's imagine if Navalney were... if there were currently a vote on extradition in Russia, probably the Saeima would also vote in favour of the decision to defend him. But no, if Artus's village is issued, he's got to be extradited, and no decision from the Saeima will be the opposite. Well, that's hypocrisy. I will then be very surprised if KPV LV vote for extradition, because then it is actually indirectly stated that they do not consider this case to be a political order, but that there is some basis and most likely all of them have entered the Saeima as a result of some dirty financial transactions. This will simply surprise me very much if there is such a vote. Then I am also surprised by the position of the National Association and especially by the activity of Raivy Dzintars, because, although Raivis Dzintars has always tried to be a pragmatic politician, I have to remind myself that it was really the case - Artus went to release the Riga City Council to the Saeima to press the button of the extortion of corrupts from the Riga City Council with his nose. At that time he was sent a car after, he went with his swollen hands, had burned his clothes, and I was ready to give him my jacket so that he could promise to go to the debate on this matter. I shouldn't have done that at the time, but that was the situation. And now Raivis Dzintars is the rapporteur and activist for the extradition of Artus' Neighbours. My conclusion is that, probably, since Artus had released the village 12. In the family, I'll give you 13. In the family and already 14. There's something in the family to spend on. I will not support such a process, let us say so, and I also call on others to look back and not to support it, and, in general, reject this draft decision. Thank you for your work... about the attention given.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U37	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U38	Hello, colleagues! I am listening to the debate, and I have the feeling that there is a free microphone here and everyone has the opportunity to talk about their pains. Of course, in some way in relation to the question asked, but now, each tells everything that comes to mind. I would like to remind you that the question is about consent to prosecution... extradition for prosecution. It was interesting for me to listen to the arguments, and as Mr. Kaimiņš rightly pointed out, I also had the opportunity to get acquainted with the case-files. I can really say that I have questions for the prosecutor and I also have the opportunity to point Mr. Kaimiņš to legal matters that he does not fully understand. But the question is, do I have to do this? Is that true? Will Members now decide that they are guilty - let us punish, not guilty - we justify. Well, that's not a question. This issue falls within the competence of the court. The court can say that it is guilty or not. And all the speech, for example, made by Mr. Kaimiņš, I think he will be able to tell him, to be served in court. All this will be an opportunity to talk about when the final decision is made, and by analysing it we will see if the prosecutor has acted correctly in accordance with the law. What does the extradition vote mean? What does the vote against extradition mean? If we issue a criminal prosecution, then it is possible for the case to be heard in the first instance court, in the second instance court, the cassation court can say its name, either, and of course also the prosecutor who drives the charge, tells what he thinks. Four institutions. What does the vote against extradition mean? This means that Members have decided that there is no criminal offence here and that prosecution is not justified. Well, can Members justify this? I just heard about 20 people read the file. How many of these, let us say, understood all the details recorded in the material? But we are ready to decide that we are not guilty. Well, some are ready. They will vote 'no' because they are clear. They are not lawyers, they have not seen the materials, they do not understand the evidence, but they are clear. Colleagues! It is our duty to allow the judiciary to carry out its work, but when the work is completed, we need to take a serious look at what has been done right here and what is wrong. If we do not extraditable, there will be no further. Now we just put a point on, the question will stay in the air... undecided. That's not good. That is not right. We also need to understand consistency, because in essence - what we heard from those people who say they shouldn't make a decision about extradition... That the prosecutor's office works wrong, that there are orders that the judiciary works wrong. Well, if there's such a mistrust for the judiciary, then I... You need to understand those who vote 'no' - you need to think about how all those prosecutors who work there take such decisions, think about them. All this must be done. And that's... There can be no other way. What I want to remind you once again is that we are not judges. We must give the opportunity to work for those who have this right. And I see one major problem with this case and also with other things. In 2014, we amended the Criminal Procedure Act and recorded a norm that if there is an indictment against an official in a responsible position, namely the Minister of the Saeima, then the case should be dealt with quickly. It is written in Article 14. We recorded it. In other words, the question is absolutely clear. And what I see... One of the cases that were active in 2014 is still not complete. We have published a number of Members, and processes are still taking place somewhere. I do not understand the prosecutor's office, which comes with a request to extradite a person for criminal prosecution and then, for months, it has been criminalised... their accusation cannot be presented. I have a lot of questions. But for me to be able to ask my questions so I can analyse the materials, it is important that the case is examined and completed. So colleagues, please allow the prosecutor to do what he has planned, because he has confidence and has the right to bring an accusation. Let us let us work for the court and then think about what to do. I believe that this proposal should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U39	The name to Member Ralph Nemir. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U40	Dear colleagues, There are two parts to this issue, on which we will now decide. One is the legal part, and the other is the emotional part. As regards the legal part, in fact, the draft decision itself concerns the initiation of prosecution at this point in time and not the declaration of the neighbour as guilty or innocent. We do not have this right, as Members of the Saeima, because the Constitution has separated three powers in our country: it is the legislative power in which we, the executive power and the judiciary. At this point, the arguments that are being discussed... and Mr. Kaimiņš has already said that the prosecutor has lied or has done something else... We can't really judge. And that must definitely be done by the court. On the principle of such a competition, both the representatives of the prosecutor's office and the representatives of the defence will submit their arguments and the court will take a decision. Moreover, it is true that this is not an extreme decision; it is at once the first instance, the second instance and still the opportunity to address this issue. Mr Neighbouring is not the first, perhaps not the last, as has been said during the debate in the committee. Such issues will continue to need to be addressed by the Saeima. This is obviously a logical and correct direction. But if we touched the emotional part, then, of course, during the pre-elections Mr. Kaimiņš called a lot of people thieves, criminals, Communists, also allowed themselves, let's say, on the direct label, to explain to TV programmers what they were sleeping with, what they were not sleeping with. Well, now it is the same situation that, in fact, a person who has not yet been convicted and who is apparently to be extradited for prosecution will get to the same status and will be able to speak about him in the same way if they drop down to such a low level. If we look at the analysis of the legal or evidence package, I am a little surprised that such analyses are provided by people who do not have any legal training at all, and this in turn implies that Members in general are able to decide on this issue, which is deeply legal in this case, which is linked to the examination of the evidence, with the argumentation, to analyse it from a professional point of view in general. I think that is not the case. And when you go back, you're about your own draft decision. So I say once again - this is about criminalising, during which Artus Nemininas will have the opportunity, with the help of his representatives, to prove his integrity and, in turn, to prove to the prosecutor's office that the evidence collected is sufficient. So, in fact, if we go out of this legal chapter to the emotional one, then I have to say, Artus, it's a karma for you about what you did during the pre-election. And now, if someone chooses to speak in this way about a person who is still without a conviction - as far as you are concerned - then it will not be justified in this case. But now, you have the opportunity, of course, to enjoy it. Consequently, I believe that we are not deciding here - and this is what is mentioned in the draft decision - on the fault or innocentness, or on the examination of any circumstances. We are only deciding whether this question can be decided by the court. If we were not to allow the court to decide on such a question, what example would we set for society? So that I call, of course, on this issue to allow the court to decide and, accordingly, to prove to every accused person, in this case, also his or her integrity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U41	Name to Member Gatis Eglitis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U42	Hello, colleagues! Yes, so I am familiar with the materials of this case, but I am not a lawyer, so maybe I will not, let's say, in some legal details, but I will speak as an economist and touch more on the issue of the use of the resources of the prosecutor's office. Here I have a number of questions that I... three points I would like to raise. So the first. More recently, a corruption perception index was published a few days ago, and unfortunately Latvia is again the last place in the Baltics. So for Latvia - 57 points, for Estonia - 75 points, for Lithuania - 60 points in this measurement, if you can say so. Well, Estonia is well, well, well in front of it, essentially the Scandinavian country, the Nordic country, if you could say so, with regard to anti-corruption issues. In Latvia this indicator has been stagnating for a long time. And then I have, of course, the question: how can it improve at all, if the resources of the public prosecutor's office are employed with such, I would say that white threads for cases both against Mr Jūmiņš, against Jušas and against Zakaistov, as well as against Adamovich now, and not say that they should be used to deal with truly serious financial and corruption crimes. That's the first. Second. A year has passed since Moneyval gave us a good mark on the regulation and fight against money laundering. March has a regular reporting in Moneyval. It is so that the Znotiņa Office, which is the Financial Intelligence Service, has now made around 200 criminal proceedings in the course of the year in connection with money laundering, money laundering. So the prosecutor's office must now simply be, I think, all the resources there to bring at least some of those criminal proceedings to the court and then to a real penalty. But again, where will the resources then be, if Members are to be driven here and do something, I'm sorry, face things. So the question is, what we will say to our Moneyval, what we will say to our American ally, what we have done and what we have not done (not heard.) ... Moneyval. That was the second point. Third. As an economist... It is important to me, of course, that both the officials and the judicial system pay the salary for a job well done, for efficiency. Well, Mr. Urban, last year... In 2019 he received €47,000 salaries from taxpayers. I don't know, really, I don't know if it's well spent taxpayers' money, I really doubt it. Just seeing Mr Urban's activities in the various things, that's money, I'll say so, extortion, apologies for the direct speech. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U43	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue the debate after a break. Only the registration of Members. It's over. Dear colleagues, We will resume work at 13:30. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U44	Dear Members, Honourable Members! We shall resume the examination of the agenda for the third remote emergency session on 4 February. We will continue to consider draft decision submitted by the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application “On the Approval to Commence Criminalization Against 13. Saeima Member Artus Neiminius’. We are continuing the debate. The next debate is by Member Ivars Puga. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U45	Welcome, ladies and gentlemen. Colleagues! I will say so if a person is accused of theft, then the charge operationally detects the fact, provides evidence and imposes a penalty. That's logical. But if, after the accusation of theft, the fact is not really established, the evidence is not provided for at least one year, then it is not logical. And that in turn leads me to say that I am opposed to the progress of this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U46	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U47	Hello, honourable leader of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, Yes, I am an independent Member, and my votes are often those that support coalition votes if these proposals are logical and important, but today, listening to these speeches from coalition Members, we have the feeling that the coalition is not at all confused, because very great contradictions need to be heard today. Mr Judina, for example, you say - yes, Members in the Commission are not a court to decide further on these issues relating to Members' infringements, criminal offences in this particular case, too. However, I want to say that it is more or less important for the Saeima to deal with these kinds of issues when deciding and thinking about whether a matter against a particular Member is political, encrypted... political misdemeanour or, nevertheless, there is a real criminal case, a criminal offence. Although I am not a questioner of the frequent remarks made by Mr Kaimiņa, today, while listening to his speech, I really had the impression that it was a more political order, a misdemeanour, and I personally cannot support this kind of decision, especially because Mr Kaimiņš himself is calling on Members not to vote in favour, not to extradite, say, to prosecute him. If, let us say, we also decide to extradite the Neighbours, but in my view, the Members of the Group's JPV LV would have to abstain from this vote, because there is also such an internal honesty in that, however, each Member of the JPV LV is more or less grateful to the fact that Mr. Neighbours founded this party, of course, together with everyone, but managed to make this party more... you, Members, are here at the Saeima. I cannot, of course, force you, but logic says that you should refrain from doing so. I hope that this is not the end of our coalition, today's coalition. In particular, Mr Judine and the Members of the New Unity should, however, bear in mind: if this coalition really fails, I doubt that your party will no longer be nominated and led by a representative in this term of office. You will have very little chance of it. Therefore, you should also think about the vote on the neighbourhood. He's in a coalition. I can't see why if the village calls for no vote... is against this decision, why are you wrong? I believe, however, that this decision is contrary, for example, to Alda Adamovich's decision, where he himself agreed to bring this case to justice... This is the opposite decision. I support in this case the fact that Mr Neiminina does not deserve this kind of political execution, because it should be remembered that, whether there is a positive or negative decision in criminal matters, it is a stain for the politician, it is a stain for the CV, and he is unlikely to return to politics anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U48	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U49	Dear colleagues, This debate is very interesting to go through two tales. The first is to be extradited or not to be extradited. Second one: guilty or innocent. I was among those Members in the last parliamentary term who did not support the extradition of Mr. Kaimiņš for persecution. Why? Because at that time there were obvious features of the order, first, and second, the document that was prepared, since Kaimiņš mentioned, there was not even the name and surname of the person issuing the order. That is why I was also unable to vote in favour of this type of document. That's the point one. Two points. Our task today is to talk about the draft decision, and not about it - whether or not Mr. Neminis is guilty. The prosecutor's office and other law enforcement bodies and institutions work well or badly on this. Today it is a question of whether there is a political order in the Neighbourhood case or not. Judging from the years he's working with the ruling coalition, I have great doubts that the ruling coalition or one of the parties would have commissioned this kind of persecution. But that's not so important either. It's important. There have been charges. The only institution that can tell whether they are correctly set up, whether they are fair or not, is the court. Only the court and only the court can say that Mr. Kaimiņš is guilty or not guilty. I will be happy if the court shows in his ruling that Mr. Kaimiņš is not guilty, because it will also be a certain merit for his reputation, he will be able to sleep peacefully. It will be an indication to the public that honest people can also be among the Members of the Saeima. It will be a case where he will be able to claim, even from the taxpayers' pockets, compensation for moral loss, it is also very important that it is one euro that should be sent to the orphanage. But it is important that that point should not be applied by us when we talk about whether he is a member of a coalition or not of a coalition, but by a court. Only the court can say that it is guilty or innocent. Therefore, I think it would be important for Mr. Kaimiņš to go through this process also because of his reputation, because the trial is not an insult and is not a stalemate, as Mr Kazinovsky says. It's a search for truth and a search for truth. And since we were actually talking today in the first part of our debate about the fact that our justice system is the best in the world, I hope that this kind of point will be added to this case as well. But in order to do this, it is necessary to decide to extradite Mr. Neighbours for criminal prosecution. I call for support for the draft decision drawn up by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U50	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U51	Listening to what Mr Judin said, you cannot, as he says, stay without saying, because such manipulation seems to me to have rarely been experienced by the Saeima. It should be noted that in this... with this vote there is no point, but Members must make a distinction according to the 'and in substance' defined in the Constitution, whether the democratic process is, in substance, acquired through the extradition of the neighbourhood or, in the other words, loses. And in this case, it is not as Mr. Judin says: if he voted against, then the Saeima would take the case, actually judge the court that there is no reason for the case. This is not the case, because in fact this court would simply be postponed until the end of the parliamentary term. And if Mr. Kaimiņš ends up with this immunity, in fact, the prosecutor can handle the case as soon as he comes to his mind, including by sending it to the court. The question is whether it is necessary at this point, or whether it is necessary to wait for one and a half years. There can be no escape from the truth in this case. Therefore, on my side, it would be a call to Mr Judin not to manipulate. He once says that the Saeima does not judge the court, and then the debate says that the court is adjudicating. Mr Dolgopolov also suddenly started... ‘Enabled’ the fact that we're going to decide here, whether it's guilty or innocent. No, this will be clarified by the court, but when Mr. Kaimiņš has finished his parliamentary work, voters will have given their assessment. Then you will also be able to pass this trial, not to traumatise his parliamentary work and democratic process in Latvia, as in Russia, for example, against which, for example, for Development/About! is very active. I call for this to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U52	We are continuing the debate. The name is Sandy Riekstin.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U53	Hello, colleagues! I am one of the few Members who have come to know these materials, so I'm going to try to talk carefully, because I'm going to have a case... can draw... taking into account the origin of the case. I would like to say a few things, however. I hear colleagues say that we are not lawyers, we are not judges, we do not have to decide the court. That's it! We don't have to decide, neither do we ask anyone to judge. We are asked to understand only one thing, whether there is any more political fiction here or not. We don't have to judge, we're not even talking about Mr. Neiminina's nature. It is true that such a situation can in principle be for anyone. If we read those materials, any businessman can in principle get a case for himself in this way. Very simple. So, colleagues, this is not an argument that there... We're judges, we're not... We don't have to be those judges either. Next, I would like to mention. We all remember well, I think that those years have already passed, as a small or heavy criminal in the Saeima has been detained. It's been a while since that heavy criminal's been knocked out, there's someone left, let's say, little kid, little criminal, let's translate. Then I have the question: by which, all these years, the institutions that carried out all these processes with such a pump, that in the end, however, something has come about. And now, as Members, decide now! One thing my colleague, Mr Feldman, has already mentioned. I look at this a little bit differently: does society get something or the public lose something from the fact that we are going to betray or will not betray Mr. I think absolutely nothing. So I think how much time is left for the Saeima, Mr. Neighbours can work and then he can be tried. There is, of course, an argument against - but there is a prescription, and if we do not decide now, the case will have to be closed. Who is responsible for that limitation? Who stretched it? Why should Members be put in this situation, the situation at the last moment - now decide! Well, sorry, this all looks as it looks! Plus, which I would like to mention, I am also surprised by some former members of Mr. Mostly thanks to Mr. Village, you all enjoy this status here, but it will soon end. And I really think it's a little weird to listen to some blasphemy, that's for me... I can agree on the karma - it is true! For nothing too, Mr Nemir lost his position as minister, and something about karma is already there. You also have to change your name, there's something with karma. Well, there I could agree with my colleagues. And I really do, colleagues, call a little... However, think - and not about Mr. Neighbours - of what is actually happening. In principle, reading what has been written there can show you about any of you, colleagues. The only question at which point it will be needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U54	The floor in the debate for the Member, Andrejs Judin, is for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U55	Thank you. As I understood, Mr Feldman did not have the opportunity to consult his group colleagues and understand the legal details. Well, I have a chance to talk and help them understand. I would ask you to note that there is indeed a concept of "residualness", and the story of the fact that after a year and a half the criminals will be able to continue does not correspond to the truth. Speaking about whether we're right or not. I believe that Members are not judges. It is our duty not to hinder institutions from working - the prosecutor and the court. On the other hand, those who vote 'no' are... finds that the case is politically open, wrong and no criminal offence. Well, then you've already made a conclusion. In your opinion, by reading the information that was sent to the Saeima, you can judge the court - well, it's your choice, it's your attitude. I think that is absolutely wrong. Our duty is not to hinder the court from carrying out its work. I would also like to remind you that it is the UKP's two representatives, your party's two representatives, who work in the Council for the Judiciary. We see that prosecutors work slowly, send materials, not at the last moment, but not immediately, then the court examines the materials very slowly. Please update this issue in the Council for the Judiciary, discuss it, think about how to get things looked at quickly. As I told you, that's a chance... not an opportunity, but the duty is in fact provided for in Section 14 of the Criminal Procedure Law, but now, I understand, it is easier for some people here from the platform to tell us that the case is politically self-governing, that you have the right to vote as well as will. But I may be disappointed that, in this case, you do not have the opportunity to vote as will - you must fulfil the function of giving those who are competent to decide on the substance of the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U56	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U57	Two things. First. What is the difference if “a person from the street” has the same insults? He'll also be able to postpone that trial... judicial review, or otherwise... until he ends his business or otherwise... Is that so? It seems to me that this is extremely important in this case: to show that Members are the same people as the people who have elected them, and that their rights and obligations are the same. It is therefore of particular importance that the case be brought before the court. I say again: the court ruling is final in this case. And I very much hope that this decision will justify Mr. Neminina. And it will also cleanse his reputation, it will also give him a peaceful sleep. And the other thing. Where was the decision of the prosecutor's office or some other action... It is one of the functions of the Saeima - to monitor these processes and to adopt appropriate measures to improve this operation. If we are dealing with silly speeches (as was the case today in the first part of our sitting) and do not think about the situation in our country, and that things need to be improved in our country... And it must be done, not talking about it, it is a fact. And so I think what Mr. Judin said today is the truth... and that is clarity. And in this case, it is really up to the Member to show the public that we are the same and that honest people can also appear among us. I call for support for the draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U58	We are continuing the debate. Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U59	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Colleagues! I will not repeat what our group Members, Feldman and Riekstins, have already said. I would definitely like to oppose Mr Judine. I respect his experience, but I want to oppose that thesis that the Saeima is not judges. Yes, we are not judges, and we are not considering whether the Neighbours are guilty or innocent, but not for nothing to us Members, have these rights provided for in the Constitution - to decide on the basis of their experience, their conscience, their arguments, whether any case is politically motivated or otherwise... in good faith, motivated by a legitimately elected representative of the people. And in this case, I also got acquainted with the materials. I have - relatively little experience, but I have - business experience, and I absolutely do not see the basis for extradition. It was just as interesting that these two faces appeared, where, just in his second speech in the debate, Mr. Judin tried to point out... on how Members of the Saeima and those representing the Council for the Judiciary should now intervene... are represented in the Council for the Judiciary. Even though a moment ago, when the Minister of Justice pointed out some things that he thought could be improved in the work of the judicial system, I think it was the New Unity that turned to... That it can't be done at all. And there's that double moratorium here. If we have this right to decide, to think, to judge whether or not to pursue such charges is for other purposes, then we have to do so, but that does not mean that we are deciding whether or not the neighbor is guilty. And another example that serves as a reason why I will not support this draft decision is that it will now be two years since we spent one Member. As we know, this hasty action did not follow, although there were promises that the case would be dealt with within a few months. There is still no result. This is exactly the same as Mr Zakatistova. And I don't have the confidence right now that, in case of extradition, the Neighbourhood case will be dealt with very quickly and that he won't be in the next one and a half, two... perhaps for an even longer time, forgive me a wax by media with a tag - “criminally accused”. So that I call for no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U60	Name to Member Aivars Gaidan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U61	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Colleagues! I can agree with Mrs Muižniece that, in principle, several Members have been extradited to prosecute this term, but there is a very long way to go before the court. As for Mr. Neighbours, it is that if we look historically... When he was arrested in 2017, in the history of Latvia as an independent country, it was the only precedent that a parliamentist took an operational transport from the Saeima house. And actually in this case... if the officials of the KNAB really thought that the village had to be detained almost or in the Chamber of Sittings, there had to be strong, convincing evidence that a criminal offence had occurred following the articles of the Criminal Law, after which the village was detained. And be very serious for that. It is clear that the roll of order of the Saeima provides that a parliament may extradite Members for prosecution if a prosecutor's office or a court asks, but... Well, there must also be the principle of equality, because in history Neighbours has not been the first Member to be extradited for prosecution. Then it would have been necessary for the previous... Those Members who were previously issued shall be subject to an equivalent arrest at the Saeima House. Article 8 of the Criminal Procedure Law “Principles of Equality” provides: “The Criminal Procedure Law establishes a uniform procedural procedure for all persons involved in criminal proceedings regardless of their origin, social and property status, occupation, nationality, race and nationality, attitude towards religion, gender, education, language, place of residence and other circumstances.” I draw your attention to the fact that already at that point the principle of equality has not been respected and that human rights can only be restricted where public security considerations so require, and only in accordance with the procedure laid down by this law for the nature and dangers of the crime. In this case, there was no danger that Mr. Kaimiņš might not come to the prosecutor and delay the investigation of the case. I'll remind you something else. I am also dealing with the work of the prosecutor's office, as well as with judicial work. There is one significant nuance that should be improved. The Ministry of Justice should think about creating a unified system, because the prosecutor's office and court can decide on the initiation of proceedings against certain persons. And in this case... if the prosecutor assumes responsibility, he shall assume responsibility solely. And the circumstances under which this decision is made are not really known. On the other hand, the truth is what is a collegial institution where collegial decisions are made... then it would be more correct, then actually... if it decides to extradite or to initiate proceedings against persons... And that's why the responsibility of the prosecutors should be removed. As it is now... one prosecutor's name is scanned, because logically there is a prosecutor's signature, and he has taken this decision alone. And we, as Members, can... I express my doubts about the work of the judiciary of our country, because the corruption index for the state of Latvia, as we see in recent ratings, has not decreased, and now to claim that all judges and prosecutors work in good faith, I would refrain. And that's why, in this case... Of course, Juris Jušas, Atis Zakaitistov, was also released. And I do not see any motivation now so that we refrain from this system that we also spend other Members. That's why I'm going to vote in favour, but... Well, if you really... But then we have to work to make this court happen quickly and Mr. Neminija can justify himself. And I want to remind you that, in this case, definitely... that KNAB investigators who changed articles in the course of the proceedings... must then come to a responsible person, explain to the public what was the problem, whether they were sufficient or not. And somebody has to take responsibility because... Well, as long as officials in Latvia do not take responsibility for their decisions, while it will continue... and OECD recommendations, where it is indicated that either very big problems in Latvia are really in these institutions... on a case-by-case basis. I believe that we should all work together on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U62	Name to Member Normunds Gun.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U63	Hello, colleagues! As has been said many times... I, too, have been convinced that the whole process against Mr. Neighbours (already almost three years) has been politically motivated. And, in my opinion, a number of accusations have also been committed in the course of the proceedings. In 2018 12. Members of the Saeima in good faith, relying on a sufficient set of evidence, betrayed Mr. Neighbours for prosecution. It was just mentioned how this detention took place and how it was delivered. As it turned out, there was not enough evidence to keep criminal proceedings against the illegal funding of parties. Although Mr. Kaimiņš was extradited for prosecution and the prosecutor's office was able to carry out all necessary procedural actions, it was not possible to maintain the initial charge. The appeal was requalified. So at first 12. Members of the Saeima were misled. This is the first illegality. Unlawfully, without the acceptance of the Saeima, Mr. Neminis was subject to a security measure. The application of the illegal security measure was not revoked by the prosecutor. This is the second illegality. The illegal case was not transferred after jurisdiction to another investigating authority, even though the charge was requalified and... was not subject to the KNAB. This is the third illegality. The charge was then re-qualified. But today, despite anything, the prosecutor is asking to re-issue Mr. Neighbours - on the basis of incomprehensible legal structures. I call on colleagues to consider whether we can trust this time too. And I call on you to assess the validity of the extradition request, because, as I said, I believe that the criminal proceedings are politically motivated and that the request for Mr. Neighbours to be extradited to prosecution is not justified, also taking into account the irregularities committed in the proceedings. Colleagues, we won't be a puppet! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U64	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U65	Dear colleagues, I would nevertheless like to express my views on what Mr Dolgopolova said. What, then, is the difference between a common man, “man on the street, ” a member of the Saeima? Very simple. Member of the Saeima - it is a high-ranking political person. And if you commit an offence, a criminal offence, an ordinary person, then that is, say, an offence that is really seen as a specific offence, a criminal offence. A political person can always come along with this political fiction. And there must then be a distinction between whether this political settlement is also in this case, whether there really is an offence or a criminal offence there. And the more speakers speak, the more convinced it is that it is, however, a political fiction. The Minister of Justice and the officials of the Ministry of Justice should take responsibility for the fact that prosecutors are working badly, pulling things in length. Maybe. But then more of this responsibility should be assumed by the previous Saeima... Perhaps also Members who had elected senior officials, former Prosecutor General, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. Right now, this Saeima, too, we... I have also voted for another Head of our Public Prosecutor's Office, the Prosecutor General, another Chairman of the Saeima... And now there's another situation. Now we have to wait for the results, we hope for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U66	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Juris Jušas.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U67	Hello, colleagues! I ask you to combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U68	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U69	Parliamentary immunity shall not constitute a personal privilege for each Member. It shall ensure that a Member of the Saeima is free to exercise his mandate, cannot be subjected to arbitrary political persecution and shall protect him from unfounded and politically motivated accusations. It shall also ensure the independence of the entire parliament. In a democratic and legal state with independent judiciary and effective legal protection, there should be no concern about the use of criminal prosecutions in order to adversely affect the functioning of Parliament. Ask yourself a fair question: is that really the case with us at this point? In 2018, the Member Kaimiņš, who was detained in the Saeima from the KNAB party led by Jēkabs Stream, was initially suspected of one article, but now it turns out that it was not the right one. At the time, criminal proceedings against the Neighbourhood were unlawfully initiated for only one reason - to fulfil one powerful oligarch's desire to influence the results of the Saeima elections and the work of the Saeima. And she was removed from the political stage by so much hate Artus Kaimiņš, losing the right to participate in the sittings of the Parliament and the Commission. Knowing the circumstances under which the management of KNAB has strongly tried to achieve the initiation of unjustified criminal proceedings against Neighbours, knowing that several investigators refused to do so, given that it was clear that they did not contain information about the crime that had occurred, which is clearly demonstrated by the decision of KNAB investigator after one and a half years, but the criminal proceedings were requalified to another article of the Criminal Law, but as we know, it was not the last qualification of criminal proceedings. However, at the end of 2019, the participants of political affairs did not foresee that the Constitutional Court would change the restrictions on Members' activities and allow Members to carry out their work even after extradition for prosecution. The constitutional courts of several countries have already recognised that the inviolability of Members is a formal prerogative of nature, which protects the standings of personal freedom against detention and judicial proceedings, which may lead to restriction of liberty. This avoids the possibility that, as a result of political manipulation, Parliamentaries would not be able to attend parliamentary meetings and that this would lead to an illegal change in the composition and functioning of Parliament. Knowing the meaning of parliamentary immunity and the decision of the Saeima to extradite Members for prosecution, let us think about the process that we are now participating in. What should we appreciate? We do not need to give a legal assessment of the evidence in the case through our vote, but we need to assess whether the process itself... whether the process itself is not politically motivated - one which aims to influence the work of a particular Member and the Saeima as a whole. If the law provides that a Member may not be subject to arbitrary political persecution, we are now in favour of politically motivated accusations by KNAB and a specific prosecutor. I would like to remind you that the prosecutor Urbans, whose hands are moving the whole process forward, is well aware of the consequences of his actions and is already coming to the Saeima once with, in my opinion, a configured criminal proceedings. I believe that the prosecutor Urban has already become a driver of several politically motivated criminal proceedings and that the purpose of all these criminal proceedings has been to influence the work of the Saeima and certain Members. This is not acceptable in a legal and democratic state. The good news is that the situation in Latvia is improving in the field of justice. The replacement of the Prosecutor General is a key factor for this. Currently neither the KNAB nor the prosecutor Urban has any other options than to cast down this culpable criminal proceedings against the Neighbourhood Court, arguing its actions by the fact that... Let the court decide, as if in the name of the rule of law. The KNAB and the prosecutor are aware that it is not possible to terminate the criminal proceedings that were initiated without justification at this time, because in this case it may be necessary to answer for their unjustified and unlawful actions in June 2018, illegally proposing criminal proceedings, misleading members of the Saeima, requesting permission to search the residences of Artusa Kaimina and his relatives, unduly detention and placement of the Member in the isolator. Who of us would like to experience something like this? Which one of us lacks that kind of experience of life? Why should Members who have already been deceived once on the part of the prosecutor Urban without going into the essence of criminal proceedings, without assessing whether it is politically motivated, trust this time? What leads us to believe that this time everything is legal and just? In addition to the function of investigation and supervision, the Public Prosecutor's Office is required by law to protect the rights and legitimate interests of persons and the state. Would any of you like him to be accused of a prosecutor who is not independent in his activities and who is politically engaged, disobeys the law and feels inviolable in his self-demeanour? Self - sacrificing practices that are contrary to the requirements of the law or of the meaning of the law are commonly understood. This is exactly the case in the criminal proceedings against the Neighbours, which have been created by the hand of a great KNAB and the prosecutor Urban. They do so because they can do so, because they have power and are not afraid of punishment. The cause is most often irresponsible, sometimes limited. There's no personal responsibility. In a democratic country, a person must not be the object of a arbitrary probative behaviour of a country. The principle of an arbitrary prohibition prohibits conduct by a State which has no justification for a manifest breach of the law, where the enforcer acts outside the scope of his or her competence. The Public Prosecutor's Office plays a central role in ensuring the rule of law, reducing the sense of irresponsibility and impunity - it is written by the State Audit Office in its 2021 audit of the Public Prosecutor's Office. In our country, however, there is still a rather long way to go to such a public prosecutor's office. Members, this is not a vote to extradite a Member, no. This is the vote on what our country is and what we are. Our great neighbour is a bright proof of how power is acting. Today, we debated the coercion of Russia's power towards Alexey Navalya, his colleagues and supporters, strongly condemned it, but what is happening with us, at home, in some cases, is nothing different from the anti-democratic and illegal processes in the neighbouring country. I call on everyone to think before the vote on the extradition of Member Artus Kaimiņš. The vote is not technical and non-personal. It is a vote that affects the individual, his family and the future. On behalf of the rule of law, I call on my fellow Members to vote against the request for the extradition of a politically motivated Member, Artuss Neiminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U70	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U71	Hello, colleagues! In my opinion, today's debate at the Saeima, on 4 February, could indeed be seen as the most striking examples of hypocrisy, duality and double standards. We are listening to the passionate speech by the Members of the New Conservative Party about politically motivated accusations, about safabricated criminal cases, about how demonstrational searches are taking place... with the release of information to journalists... and so on. You know, try to change the name of Mr. Kaimiņš in your speech to another name. And this name would be Ushakow. Don't you think that all your speeches could be addressed as well... applicable also to the criminals of Usakow, which has already failed? The criminal case of “Riga traffic”, the accusation of the former mayor of the capital of Latvia – more than 140 thousand people have chosen legal mayors! - which was removed from office just because, here, there was a criminal case, just because there was a public search almost live in the presence of journalists. And Mr Pouce, whom I believe has already reached a similar karma - Mr Kaimiņš karma has been mentioned today - against which criminal proceedings have already been initiated on the part of the KNAB, but for so little and so... I wouldn't say funny... But really... the cause is one that in itself could be a shameful stab for a person for life, even if this accusation failed. Politically motivated indictment, a sacrificial criminal case - so you think of the neighbouring criminals, but do you not think so about the Ushakow case? You all believe that Navaly has a criminal case and a politically motivated accusation, even without seeing his criminal case materials, even without knowing them, because all this is in Russia, you do not even have an approach. Are they not double standards? It's not a model of hypocrisy? But thank you for today's debate, thank you for finally learning... The Riga residents will know who they have to "give thanks" for the dismissal of the legally elected Riga City Council. What still needs to be clarified. On what basis had he ordered a service car for the budget? To bring one Member to the vote to dismiss the legitimately elected Riga City Council. So I advise you - before you prepare, write your speeches, think about whether your thoughts, which perhaps are good, very bright - do not apply to your political opponents either, because we also have our ears, we have our eyes and, above all, we have our brains. And the eyes, ears and brain are also for all other people in Latvia - voters. So thank you very much for the debate, and I wish you today to vote for the principle of separation of power in Latvia and for the court - as judiciary - to decide whether Mr. Kaimiņš is guilty or not. Of course, we have a presumption of innocence, but some of us lost it very successfully when we were pursuing our very political objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U72	I closed the debate. Mr Dzintara, would you like to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U73	Thank you, colleagues, for the debate. First of all, I would like to inform you that the debate contained misleading information. No doubt Raivis Dzintars himself did not apply for a report on this issue. Of course, this may not be directly relevant to the substance of the matter, but it was a rather insulting statement to say a rebuttal. Indeed, the commission of mandates, ethics, and applications is not a court to assess in detail the merits of the accusation. The task of the Commission and, in fact, of the Saeima, is also to assess whether there is evidence or very well-founded arguments to believe that prosecution is politically motivated and illegible. The majority of the members of the Commission considered that there was no such argument or evidence and that only the court can answer whether or not the accusations of the prosecutor’s office were unfounded, and that is also the only way Artuss Kaimiņš can prove his integrity. The majority considered that failure to issue would leave the shadow of the real suspicion both to the Member concerned and to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U74	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the consent to criminal prosecution against 13. Members of the Saeima Artus Neitiņš”! Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". On the agenda - draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance", first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Ieva Krapāne. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U75	Hello, colleagues! The Commission on Social and Labour Affairs examined and conceptually supported the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance at first reading. The draft law under consideration provides for a number of amendments. First of all - to supplement the authorisation of the Cabinet of Ministers with the right to determine expenses which are not included in the calculation of average income of a person or household; to ensure compliance of regulations with the authorisation of the law and at the same time to prevent violations of the interests of persons. Secondly, to provide that, exceptionally, the granting of basic social assistance benefits, as well as the determination of the status of a poor or disadvantaged household, can be subject to a shorter period of one month, in certain situations where a person has special circumstances. And thirdly, to move from 1 April 2021 to 1 July 2021. Amendments to the law will eliminate inconsistencies of regulations and laws, prevent possible interference of the interests of persons, as well as allow municipalities to better prepare for calculation and allocation of housing benefit according to uniform principles. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U76	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on social services and social assistance. Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U77	For the second reading, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 12 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U78	There are no other proposals regarding the deadline. The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 12 February. The next item is the draft law on accounting, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U79	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Sitting viewers and listeners! In the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission we have examined and supported the draft new law at first reading - Accounting Law. The draft law has been designed to improve the regulation included in the law “On Accounting” according to the given task, to include clarification of the terms used, as well as to define the purpose and scope of the law. It intends to review and improve regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers published on the basis of the Law “On Accounting”. The draft law includes the draft law “Amendments to the law on accounting” (No. (583/Lp13) regulation on the introduction of a register of external accounting officers and public external accounting officers. The new Accounting Act is intended to replace the current Accounting Act, which has been in force since 1993. New regulation is needed in view of the development of information technologies and the development of software for accounting computer software and information computer systems and their increasing use in business accounting. It is also important that today the practice of preparing, circulating and storing accounting documents as well as keeping accounting records and preparing financial statements has changed. It is provided that the law will determine the general and legal basis of the field of accounting, the entities of the law, their rights, duties and responsibilities, accounting tasks, requirements for keeping of accounts and the competence of institutions in administrative infringement proceedings. This draft law aims to improve and extend the existing framework for the preparation of accounting justification documents and the electronic keeping and storage of accounting records, which is planned as a priority over paper storage and storage. The current requirements for the carrying out of inventory and the preparation of financial statements, as well as the obligations and rights of managers of companies, are also specified. The new framework also includes the requirements of the Regulation on the free movement of data. It is foreseen that the accounting documents will be stored electronically in the territory of Latvia or another Member State of the European Union. It is also planned to include in the draft law the procedure for licensing of external accountants, as well as to provide that the public register of external accountants will be conducted by the State Revenue Service. The draft law also includes administrative liability for irregularities in accounting. It is foreseen that administrative penalties, as in the past, will be applied by the State Revenue Service and the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau. It is planned that the new law - Accounting Law - will apply to all legal and natural persons carrying out economic activities, as well as state and municipal institutions. During the development of the draft law, the non-governmental organisations of the sector have been consulted, who made their proposals and expressed their views at the working group meetings, as well as provided written comments and proposals. I report that the First Reading Budget and Finance (tax) Commission has supported the bill on Accounting Law and calls on the Saeima to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U80	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U81	1 January 1993 - this was the date of entry into force of the current Law on Accounting. It has been changed until now and has already been amended 22 times. I think that if there is something that this Saeima could do and that would be in favour of entrepreneurship, modern accounting, reducing the administrative burden, reducing paper documentation relics in the law, then it is the adoption of the Accounting Act. Accounting law is exactly what this parliamentary term needs to be able to accept. Therefore, in general, I am grateful to the draft law makers. And in this case, no matter how funny it would be... It's also... Well, there is the Ministry of Finance attached its hand, and this is, of course, atypical for them, but I call on all non-governmental organisations, such as auditors, the Association of Latvian Tax Consultants, as well as various other organizations, which are involved in everyday work and are forced to follow this 1993 law until now, to actively engage in the preparation of proposals for the second reading of the draft law, including... if necessary... Addressing the New Conservative Group, I would be happy to... and I am convinced that our Members in the Commission on Budgets and Finance (Tax) are also ready to support the various good proposals related to cutting red tape, cutting administrative burdens, reducing various relics, various misunderstandings that private entrepreneurs are forced to face, following the current restrictive accounting regulation. The system must be as simple as possible. So, with these words, I want to strengthen the members of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) in order to adopt this draft law as soon as possible in all three readings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U82	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, Mr. Stein, would you like to add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U83	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U84	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on accounting! Please vote mode! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U85	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is one month - 4 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U86	So, in the absence of other proposals, the deadline for the second reading of the draft law is 4 March this year. The next item on the agenda is the draft law on covered bonds, first reading. Drafter of the law - Cabinet of Ministers. And there is also the alternative draft law on covered bonds, which has been submitted by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. On behalf of the commission responsible, Member Gatis Eglitis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U87	Good afternoon! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law ‘Segitized Bond Act’. I'll tell you that story quickly. It is that we have to reject the first draft law - Law No. 796/Lp13, because while the draft law was being drafted, quite a number of guidelines were received from the Legal Service, clarifications, more - technical clarifications, but the extent was so large that a decision was made that the commission was leading its alternative draft law “Segt bond law”. This will be the result of this vote. I therefore call for this draft law to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U88	Let us start a debate. Member Krišjānis Feldmans took part in the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U89	I just wanted to use this as the only opportunity to apply for a debate in any way, because before, for example, on the deadline for tabling proposals, there was no possibility for me to apply in any way and to offer perhaps a shorter deadline. I ask the chairman of the sitting to take this into account. On the particular draft law. Of course, it is very good that, at last, this whole package has been put to the vote in the Saeima. Covered bonds are a very important type of securities which should also be used more actively in Latvia. I call, therefore, for the vote to be taken accordingly - for this draft law to be rejected and for an alternative to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U90	I closed the debate. Colleagues! We work on the platform e-Saema. If you want to ask for a word on one of the procedural issues that also include the question of a possible other deadline for the submission of proposals... You must send an e-mail for a period other than that previously decided by the commission. The e-platform does not provide for a separate technical regulation for this issue at the moment, which we all know for some time when we are working on this platform. So the debate is closed. Does Mr. Eglišs want to add something more on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U91	We refuse this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U92	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on covered bonds submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers! The Commission is calling for this draft law to be rejected. Please, let's vote! On - 7, against - 77, refraining from - 1. Draft law has been rejected. We will vote for the support of the Commission's alternative draft law on covered bonds at first reading! Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! No, 75, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U93	The deadline for submitting proposals is two weeks - 18 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U94	There is currently no information at the Bureau that anyone had applied for a different deadline for submitting proposals, so the deadline for submitting proposals to this draft law is 18 February this year. The next item is the draft law on the Market in Financial Instruments Act, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U95	On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, I would like to tell you a little... This is a package of six draft laws: one on which we have already voted, a draft law on covered bonds and five future draft laws. It is one thing: it is proposed to build a new financial instrument that would be available to banks, and it is called "covered bonds". And that is the simple idea of building bonds on the basis of the loans granted, namely bonds, which, I say, are sold on the international market, and the funds obtained can be used by the banks to grant new loans again. This is a very important financial instrument so that they can finally raise their lending in Latvia at least to the level of Lithuania and Estonia. This has gone very slowly over recent years. And all these draft laws are needed to establish this legal, legal framework so that this financial instrument can operate. It was launched in Estonia more than a year and a half ago. And that is why I am calling for support to be given to this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U96	Thank you. The Members in the debate have not applied. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendment to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments"! Please vote mode! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U97	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 18 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U98	Thank you. No other proposals regarding the deadline have been received. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 18 February this year. The next item is the bill “Amendment to the Deposit Guarantee Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U99	Consequently, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has also examined this draft law, the “Amendment to the Deposit Guarantee Act”. The budget and financial (tax) commission endorsed this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U100	Thank you. No debaters apply. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Deposit Guarantees”! Please vote mode! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U101	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 18 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U102	No other proposals regarding the deadline have been received. So the deadline for the second reading is 18 February this year. The next item is the draft law on the Credit Register Act, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U103	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law ‘Amendment to the Credit Register Act’. The Commission has also supported these draft laws.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U104	Thank you. The Members in the debate have not applied. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the draft law on the Credit Register Act at first reading! Please vote mode! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U105	Yes, also for the second reading of this draft law, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 18 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U106	There are no other proposals regarding the deadline. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 18 February this year. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U107	Yes, the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission has also supported this related draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U108	The debaters have not applied. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions! Please vote mode! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U109	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 18 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U110	This draft law also does not have any other proposals regarding the deadline for tabling proposals at the Bureau's disposal, so the deadline for submitting proposals for second reading is 18 February this year. The next item is the draft law on the Law on Financial Stability Tax, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U111	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has also examined this related draft law ‘Amendment to the Law on Financial Stability Fees’. The Commission was in favour. So I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U112	The debaters have not applied. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendment to the Law on the Tax on Financial Stability". Please vote mode! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U113	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 18 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U114	There are no other proposals regarding the deadline, so the deadline for the second reading of the draft law is 18 February this year. Next draft law on the agenda - Amendments to the Law on Real Estate State Cadastre, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juris Jurash. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U115	Dear colleagues, See the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Cadastral of Real Estate” reviewed at first reading at the Legal Commission (No. 757/Lp13). The purpose of the amendments to the law is to continue to apply the cadastral values currently in force until at least 31 December 2025. In Latvia, the amount of real estate tax is related to the cadastral value of the respective property and the respective situations. While the majority of the Saeima and the government have not agreed on a comprehensive revision of the real estate tax system, which would ensure fair and tolerated tax burden for residents and entrepreneurs of Latvia as well as other payments related to real estate, the increase of cadastral values is not acceptable. In order to ensure that the role of cadastre values is reduced in the calculation of real estate tax and revision of the real estate tax system, the draft law provides for the task of the Cabinet of Ministers - to develop draft laws necessary for the exemption of housing from real estate tax, which determine the amount of real estate tax on forced shared property, as well as commercial areas and agricultural land, and to submit a draft law ensuring the revaluation of the amount of state taxes related to cadastre value. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U116	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U117	Maybe someone remembers that this bill led to a wide debate in the period before the Riga City Council elections, because then the new Conservatives... After we realized what its trends are... from some known ministries... in the case of real estate tax... either, the possible desire to raise the tax burden, then there were no other options than to submit such a draft law. Who surprised me? Meetings of the Commission... Well, two were at least where I was... The Legal Commission... That is the draft law. I was surprised that this maintenance of the status quo, where... so actually eliminates the likelihood of real estate tax being introduced in the coming years... Well, knowing that it is difficult to find support in the Saeima to reduce it, then at least the status quo is maintained... that this was not supported by the opposition, which previously stood out for being... You can't... that its cadastral values should be frozen and so on. They must not be reviewed there. And I also agree, to a certain extent, that, before the tax rate is calculated, the new cadastral values cannot enter into force. I have always agreed and supported this. However, in this case, the ZZS abstained. I had a shock. I must remind you that this draft law not only provides for the freezing of cadastral values, which, of course, can be frozen if there is a normal system of laws on... For example, it exempts primary housing from real estate tax, but it also provides a task... There, of course, the deadline will have to be postponed, because it's almost now... foresee the task of the Cabinet of Ministers - to come to the Saeima with its vision, offer (this may also be a package of draft laws), which would provide for the release of primary housing... and for other groups, say the reduction of the real estate tax burden. And I don't know why there was such a great resistance from the opposition on this issue, because in fact, the opposition itself always... has never tried to reduce real estate tax for years under power, especially by the ZZS. And, of course, it's a pity that when you say how bad everything is... that the new Conservatives suddenly now with something bad... Because we're just fighting... but when it comes to supporting it with real votes in the Commission, either by 'no' or by 'no' votes. This is, of course, regrettable. And here I have to say thank you to the coalition parties because, whatever the case... and... Well, I think everyone knows well what's about building a NYN, what's about reducing... maybe someone is on the status quo in general as well... However, if we want to compromise, at least to keep this status quo in order to prevent some perhaps small group of officials from raising their tax, however, the whole coalition voted in favour of this draft law, no matter what the personal views of everyone there are. It seems to me that this is a step in the right direction. And it was really funny that, seeing that it was precisely that the coalition voted in favour of maintaining this status quo, because it is quite obvious that it is unlikely to be able to reach an agreement on movement in any direction, including reduction, at least in this parliamentary term... that the opposition, as a very negative turn... and even turned practically against the task of the Cabinet of Ministers - to draft this legislative package on the release of primary housing from NĪN or... Well, reducing the burden... of which - also commercial companies... And so on... revision according to that perhaps new methodology of cadastral values, which has long been, I think, fragrant. Well, it was very, very amazing. And it was a pleasure that the Latvian Municipal Union also supported this draft law. I was surprised that, let us say, the Executive Director of the Association of the Great Cities of Latvia Valainis, who will speak after me, did not support... he abstained, I think. He himself explained how he voted in favour of this draft law. But he didn't support the municipality... who also says that if we cannot, let us say, agree on the reform of their rates, then the status quo must be maintained for a sufficient period of time in order not to disturb the public with this issue. And I fully understand this local government position, but I do not understand why Mr. Valaiņš, who is also in one local government organisation that now... for many years he has received a great deal of salary - why he does not, for example, support this. It's hard to understand for me. And in general, I have to say that the Ministry of Finance... If I had previously spoken of accounting law, I could have praised that there too, as I say, the hand was well placed (there will, of course, still be proposals in the bill of accounting law, probably much), then in this case, talking about this real estate tax reform... They also informed at the commission meeting... There was this correspondence that everyone could read... that these sittings, meetings in principle, almost... Well, you can't say it doesn't happen... where the task force may need to work on this reform... And that bothers me to some extent, but it's not a surprise... Nor is it a surprise, because of course it is against these officials, let us say that, ideologically. They believe, for example, that real estate tax is what needs to be five times, ten times, because it is something that cannot be avoided. There it is, for example, a house standing there, and so it has to be properly taxed to collect it, and if you can't pay, then move to the countryside, you're guilty of building a house too close, let's say, infrastructure whose cadastral value is increasing, you're guilty. Well, about this Ministry of Finance... Of course, I was surprised by this passiveness. And now it's promised that... Now there is a meeting or one to be held. But now they're very slow to go. I now think that those responsible for the work of the officials of the Ministry of Finance should, in every way, be encouraged to really do something about real estate tax through this reform. I'm happy to hear an explanation of why the opposition turned against this... Let us say, the exemption of primary housing from real estate tax, although before that, they had made many proposals for the so-called only housing. I have stressed many times how wrong the term is, because we already know that many urban residents, such as the Rigas, are inherited in the fields of homes, and if this was the only formulation of housing, then it would be a situation that he can't use this for anyone... some kind of shrunk... real estate tax credit. That is completely wrong. And that is why, of course, I will be happy to listen to both Mr Valaiņš and all the other arguments why such resistance is. In general, however, thank you once again to the coalition, which unanimously supported it. And that means that this status quo... maybe there will still be proposals... Maybe it ends a year earlier... Well, to have a motivation for someone to come with their reform perhaps faster. Well, maybe it's only in the next parliamentary term... that there is, however, this overall aid... There was... I call for support at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U118	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Mr. Valains, are you going to have six minutes?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U119	No, the most honorable head of the sitting. Unfortunately, I will not have six minutes after Mr Feldman's speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U120	Yeah, thank you. Got it. It is therefore time for a break at the sitting. Registration of the presence of other members. It's been a success. I interrupted the sitting by 3.30 p.m. So let's go on at 3:30. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U121	Dear colleagues, This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Cadastre of Real Estate”. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U122	Hello, high-ranking head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, After the previous speaker's speech, I think it would be right for us to tell all the circumstances of the case - how they have happened and how we have reached such a draft law at all. And here you have to look at such a broader past. This type of amendment to the Saeima has not been tabled for the first time and has not been supported for the first time. This has happened before. And here it would be important for me to stress what the motivations have been to do. And the last time... even before this vote... already when this issue of cadastral values, methodologies, was addressed in the previous government, the Ministry of Justice also presented a kind of methodology that, in our view... and then also the FAO ministers pointed out that this methodology is not complete and that this methodology needs to be redrafted in order to address the problems that already exist and still still exist - in the real situation where there are those big cadastrals where there are very unfair cadastral values against society. And it was with the motivation I remember that once these cadastral values were done. And then it was another minister, it was not Mr Bordan; you can see who it was, but at the moment that this question came to Mr Bordan, Mr Bordan was very active in taking the leadership of the ministry. And, of course, also in political rhetoric... Exemption from real estate tax... whatever form... How did he come to mind - this question to define... it has always been a question of political rhetoric. But what I would like to emphasise is that exemption from this payment, no matter in what form it is imagined, is not compatible and impossible if the basic things themselves are not arranged. And the basic thing is the cadastral evaluation methodology, which we try to focus on with our colleagues too... not only now on the part of the opposition, but already in government, we have drawn attention to this. And now we are looking at how the highly respected, very respected, honest and self-justified Minister, Mr. Bordan, who certainly appreciates the more professional opinions... very high. And then last summer, Minister Bordan prepared for the government and society... came to the public in his cadastral evaluation methodology... the new cadastral evaluation methodology. I think colleagues, we remember for ourselves... And I think it was a great surprise for a very large part of society - what we saw there. First of all, it has to be said that the problems that exist today, which I am going to talk about, have not been addressed there. Instead, a very, very high increase in cadastral values for serial houses, new projects, a disproportionately high increase in places where the real value of an apartment or house did not correspond exactly to the actual market value was offered. It was offered in such a big, smooth, block-like... a cadastre valuation methodology system, which would substantially increase the cost of real estate tax. At the same time, it would also increase the land rent tax where there is shared property tax... payments of shared property need to be made... and many other payments subject to the cadastral evaluation system. What Bordan offered was absolutely unacceptable not only for the members of the opposition but for many members of society. And it was quite strange that it was Mr Bordan's proposal that followed (and I would like to stress - then!) , when the opposition submitted to the draft law for a delay of at least one year, only members of the coalition who questioned (at that time only question) what in fact their own minister is bringing to the government and the Saeima, and what devastating consequences it will have. Colleagues! And where are the problems today, what are the problems that have absolutely not changed throughout this period of ministerial service? And an example. For example, we know... The Saeima also mentions the Villa Marta building, which is located in Jurmala, which currently has a cadastral value of 1.2 million. The cadastral value, which should be equal to the market value. I think that the size of a hectare's land, equivalent to one hectare's buildings with a height of four five metres in one of the most prestigious areas of Jurmala, certainly does not cost one million. The market value of such real estate is many times higher. But for the apartments located in the microdistricts, where one new project is being built between 20 houses, all these 20 houses, which were built in the 1960s and 1970s, needing capital investments, are increasing their cadastral value. They are growing in cadastral value as transactions take place in this new apartment project. And there's nothing changed from this problem, there are still these cases. And this is the case in Riga and other urban districts; these values are increasing, and they are not fair to me, and they do not reflect the real price of real estate. What, then, did Minister Bordan do to reach new cadastral values? Prime Minister Bordan absolutely... with all due respect, he took this question to himself. He took along and prepared an even harsher offer with his own ministerial officials. And why am I saying that? Because we all remember - several professionals in summer... professional organisations specializing in these matters... professionals - industry professionals... In particular, I would like to address the head of the Association of Latvian Real Estate Evaluators, Artūra Žuromski, who is not only a real estate valuer recognised in Latvia, but also a real estate valuer recognised throughout Europe, a awarded real estate valuer, a professional and academic professional. He publicly stated that none of them even stood close to the development of this new cadastral evaluation system. In principle, no organizations even stood near the work presented by Bordāns in summer. And then we, the opposition, submitted our proposal for a bill, and that bill was very clear. It was clear that we wanted to postpone for one year... and that in a year's time we want to see a new cadastral evaluation methodology, a system that already solves all the problems that exist in the existing cadastral value system. At present, this system is unfair for a number of reasons. Both these new projects, industrial areas and petrol tanks, which... We've had a deal in two thousand years, and all these years... it is assumed that the value of this petrolcake has not changed at all. Colleagues, we have cases like this. Industrial areas that have developed... and there these entrepreneurs use this system's darts still today. There are such cases in the centre of Riga. There's a factory on Marija Street today... Colleagues, the factory on Marijas Street! Can anyone go and find it? It is precisely because of factories, precisely because of industrial areas, precisely because of the deformities that exist in the current system, that very much of the population is forced to pay extra... real estate tax to balance it in some way. Colleagues, the brother is today. And what you are proposing in this bill is, in my opinion, unacceptable: that the deadline is too long. In essence, you offer that the next Saeima will work on this issue, and this essentially means not solving the problem, but taking responsibility. That is not acceptable to me, colleagues. And in the case of the approval of such amendments... I will also vote in favour of these amendments today - and I will vote in favour only in order to put forward proposals to reduce these deadlines, to act more quickly and to stop doing populism (a fellow Member, that is what you are doing). I do not understand why these draft laws could not be brought together - both of them are talking about the same thing to a large extent, but the problem is that one draft law, which is currently on the agenda for Members, provides for this problem to be postponed, in substance, to the next Saeima, colleagues. And that's why we... When these draft laws were passed to the Saeima at zero reading, one draft law obtained the votes of all the Members of the Saeima, but this draft law did not get the votes of the opposition, because the problem already exists today, and it is irresponsible action... The inaction on your part that you do not want to deal with it, but for several years, put on a number of other electoral promises that now housing will be exempt from the real estate tax burden. When is it going to be, colleagues? You voted in favour of the budget. Where are these promises? Where is the fulfillment of their promises now? What prevents you from doing this now if it is your priority? And you can look at the Union of Greens and Farmers... municipalities in Pierīga, where there is such a problem, because it is in the Riga area that the biggest tax payments are made precisely because of these high cadastral values. What is the system in Jurmala? What system has this system been introduced in Carnikava? There, people are exempt from real estate tax for the only housing and are being built smart... at this very complex system that we have today, however, is able to develop smart methods of calculating real estate tax to balance these current system darts in some way. And if Krišjānis Feldman denies someone that someone has not voted for something, look in the mirror, look at yourself and ask the question: who is the Minister of Justice, who has not done anything for one and a half years to solve the problems that exist today? Who are those Members who have been baffling from this troubling about some sort of real estate exemptions for the sole house? A hundred thousand waivers... What foolishness that has not been heard! You've done nothing in a year and a half. This was your main responsibility, you have failed in this area. And if it were to go further, the only thing that would happen... That is, to make it clear to the public that there will be no exemption from real estate tax for housing during this parliamentary term, that you will not do anything, you will not fulfill any of your pre-election promises. But if you want to do something... You are currently in power in the capital of Latvia. Everything's in your hands. Look at the real estate tax policy in Jurmala, Carnikava, and take an example! Learn From the Best! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U123	The name of Member Regina Lochmele. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U124	Hello! This bill is another bill of the ruling coalition, entitled ‘Minimum Evil’. All that the government is able to do on this day to deal with the issue of access to housing is to freeze something, because there is nothing better in the coalition that rule its people on this issue. Freezing, because impotence is a diagnosis of the availability of housing for this government. Today, Mr Feldman criticised the opposition for not having supported anything. I'm not going to talk about Mr. Feldman's behaviour in the Commission to value coalition partners... and about his attitude towards his government partners, the Unity-led Ministry of Finance... and so on. Let us talk about the substance. Mr. Valaiņš has already described everything in great detail. The fact that the methodology for calculating cadastral value is absolutely unfair is absolutely methodologically incorrect and is detrimental to both the Latvian economy and the well-being of every Latvian citizen - it is clear to any normal, wise person. It's enough to have a simple look into the formula used to calculate a particular real estate... Whether it's a house or land or an apartment... Now the coalition is proposing to freeze this unjust, wrong situation by 2025. They want to present this hot carp to the next one - 14. The Saeima, completely taking away, as Mr Valaiņš rightly said, from itself responsibility for not addressing this issue. And now let's move on to the promises. Dear KUP! Isn't that your minister who runs the Ministry of Justice? Is it not a minister who promised from the beginning of January 1, 2020 and then from January 1, 2021, to find a solution to the distressed problem with forced rental? Was it not Mr Bordan who promised directly the legal reform of the shared property? Where? Tell me what we're gonna say to people? Then when for the first time in my life I said, “Wow! That's good. Ministry of Justice - Bravo! - listened to the proposals and initiatives of the Society “Nation Against Land Barons.” Yes, they said that perhaps, but it “may” turns out never will, because 2025 is so far from our reality that it could simply write a fiction novel “What will happen in Latvia in 2025”. We will freeze this situation now, which, in the current economic crisis of the Covid-19 pandemic, will lead to hundreds and thousands of Latvians' debts, which will lead to the bankruptcy of companies that will make individual people bankrupt, who will leave families without income. Because it is certain that at least I have a feeling of housing - it is perhaps the last hope that has been left to our people in a situation where the government does not dare to think about perhaps, however, releasing people from communal payments in times of crisis, that perhaps still support anyone who is prevented from working during an emergency period which has been extended to 6 April. I think it is no secret that the government will do this today, and that the Latvians of Easter will spend their home sitting with all the same prohibitions. We can, of course, freeze this is indeed a minimum evil, because there is no hope that something better will be offered to us by this government simply does not exist. WHY to vote in favour of this bill as for the least evil, that there is no hope, and with the only hope that the coalition will come forward with proposals and amendments to this bill, that nothing will leave the ruling coalition to say: “Yes, we think exactly that.” There will be those proposals, and then we will see who is hypocritical, who lies and who says the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U125	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U126	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable Members! It is very good to take this decision, I think, because, as the cadastral value increases, of course, very many would have problems with the real estate tax that is already difficult to pay. And it was mentioned here that it would be useful to work in parallel and, in other words, to raise the cadastral value only when there is clarity about the calculation of the real estate tax. But I just want to object a little to the thought that I could abolish the tax on the first home... own, because the logical question - and the second and the twenty second? What's the difference? If we estimate how much tax the owner of the house already pays to the state and the municipality, there's a difference in number. For example, in a two - room apartment in Ķengarag, taxes are certainly lower than those of a private household. But I added that I paid 12 direct taxes to the state - VAT and excise. I mean, water, sewerage, electricity, gas, where there are two taxes - both VAT and excise - I have two televisions. Well, of course, one can do. Internet, street management, waste removal, security and more, there are indirect taxes. If, for example, you live in a private home, you need to maintain it. You have to reap the grass, you have to buy the fuel, you have to pay each time both excise and repair expenses. To maintain the building by repairing the roof or, let us say, painting, you pay VAT again, you spend fuel again, you pay excise duty on both transport and everything else. And then there is an interesting situation. I remembered Jam Sculmi. She pays, let's say, living in a private house, a month-on-month-on-month-out of the 12 taxes. Then the bailiff comes and says: “Look! You have a debt here - 200 euros. In a word, be prepared: either you sell that house or we set you out, because this debt accumulates.” So there is no difference whether a person has one tax, i.e. whether he pays a tax on one house or pays for two, or he pays for twenty-two. And I think quite the contrary, if someone has 22 homes and he pays 400 taxes, let's say, 200 taxes... depending, direct and indirect... or he lives in a private house, or it's a apartment house... It should also be remembered, then, that there is a huge inequality between people who have built this home themselves and those who have received it from the country. Because if you have bought a home by taking a mortgage bank credit, remember that the bank has to pay corporate tax, which they collect from you every month for your mortgage loan. So you also pay to a bank, which in turn pays to the state. And then I think the state will in any case collect much more if a person has built not just one house or he will own one, but he will, for example, have taken credit or he has a company, he will also pay, of course, corporate tax, and he will build 20 houses and rent all. Consequently, I believe that we cannot raise the cadastral value until we are clearly told that we do not pay any real estate tax at all, but only for land. Earth is a common resource, and it's different... Let's say it's a principle. Until we have taken some equivalent place with Scandinavian countries by area per capita... Because I will give you some figures from Eurostat. Latvia takes the last place in the European Union by the number of people living in private homes and in row homes. It is clear to everyone that a family with children living in a private home - these children receive much different education than in some communal apartment or small room, because they already have to get used to cleaning snow, cutting grass and doing other jobs, and they are employed. Well, at least they know so much about what they have to pay taxes. So if Latvia takes the last place by the number of well-designed dwellings, if Latvia takes the last place by area per capita and if Latvia takes one of the last places by GDP percentage spent on the construction of new dwellings, I think that in any case, we have to start talking now about the total abolition of this real estate tax for both the first and the 21st dwellings. When we get closer to Scandinavian countries... Let's say that we will become here, as Riga Mayor Staķis announced, the first climate neutral city near the Baltic Sea or... or any other announcements we get. I think it would be good if we reached up to 70 percent of the figures for the people of developed countries in the Baltic Sea region, and then we could fantasize the real estate tax on the second housing tax on the third housing. That is why I think that, in parallel to the fact that we will now freeze this cadastral value... In the Real Estate State cadastre law, therefore, this calculation procedure and increase and we will support - of course, I call on everyone to vote in favour of this draft law. It is already necessary to start discussions about the fact that there should be no real estate tax on housing, but only on land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U127	Name to Member Aivars Gaidan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U128	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Colleagues! Well, the fact that Mr. Valaiņš often blows up an elephant from the fly or speaks half-truths - that's the fact. So when it comes to real estate tax rates, to make it clear to the public that at the moment real estate tax rates have been set... the State shall determine within the limits of between 0,2 and 3 per cent and each municipality shall draw up and determine in its binding rules the arrangements for applying these rates. The problem is that the municipalities have a very free choice, because if we look at between 0.2 and 3 percent, then between 1.5 and 3 percent go to unsubordinated property, but nevertheless, its progress is enormous if we look at it. In the range of 0,2 to 1,5 per cent, municipalities may regulate what it will have to do in property tax. The problem is that - which Mr Valaiņš did not tell - there have been trends in those municipalities where the Union of Greens/Farmers has long-standing ownership - that for no reason individual citizens, let us say, pay 1.5 per cent of the cadastral value, but close people have to pay 0.2 per cent. This system and order should be changed, which would prevent the municipalities from manipulating so much on the tax rate, as it could be for one house to be abolished at all, but it could be paid from the other, and then its cadastral values, its rates should be adjusted, and it is stipulated that the housing stock - 0.2 per cent of the cadastral value, which does not exceed EUR 56 915. It must therefore be seen from the point of view of the need to limit the possibility for municipalities to set rates so that they can be paid. Clearly, as long as there is no other order, then, to review the cadastral value of real estate and to include it in market value... Then it is clear that very many owners, who are in Jurmala, in Baltezers, where these houses, which are inherited, have received a person's inheritance, and he has no such wealth, then in fact this property tax will not be paid at these low interest rates as well. So you have to look at how you can... maybe there's something special requirement to be involved in really those citizens who have received an inheritance, but they don't have business to apply reduced rates. I see that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U129	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U130	Thank you. I am very sorry that Mr Geidan is very poorly targeted in tax policy. Real estate tax is one hundred percent of the municipal tax, which goes into municipal budgets, so each time, when granting any tax credit, the municipality pays the tax, also that in the tax base, the tax received is included without relief. Thus, when predicting what the income, revenue in the municipal budget will be, they are calculated by one hundred percent collected real estate tax, but that is the case - à propos. Talking about cadastral values and their determination. Naturally, if they were not linked to real estate tax, they could speculate and say, “What do you want, count it!” But the cadastral value is the basis from which the real estate tax is also calculated and collected, where today, according to the current methodology of cadastral value, I would say that it is a punishment for those people who invest in improving their real estate. The more you invest in real estate, the more its cadastral value increases. And so here's the paradox that people... and not only natural persons, but also legal persons are not particularly interested in improving their real estate from a tax point of view, even maintaining it, because the cheaper the property is, the smaller the tax is. So the cadastral value... In determining the cadastral value, it was also necessary to discuss at the same time what the real estate tax system should be. And it's important to remember here that in principle cadastral... Real estate tax is by nature an infrastructure tax. And it should not be linked to the type of investment it owns, but to the extent that it consumes from the public good, if it can be said so. There must therefore be a completely different calculation methodology. That's the point one. Two points. The time has long since come to establish that real estate tax is a pure municipal tax. Thus, on the basis of the statutory rates, the municipalities could determine, within their limits, not the discount, but the rate themselves, when drawing up and planning their own budget. This is a very important moment when it comes to the independence of municipalities, also from a financial point of view. Postponing, therefore, the freezing of this problem does not give any good signal to the public that, here, someone will, however, face up to this problem in principle. That's why, by supporting this draft law... It seems to me that there is the basis when a wide public discussion can be opened, including specialists in this field. Unfortunately, however, we Members are not particularly large specialists in determining the cadastral value and what factors should be taken into account. But that must be a discussion - it is clear and understandable, and it is welcome. This is why SASKĀJA will support this draft law, hoping that new ideas will appear during the discussion of the draft law, which may also help to sort out this very difficult, complex area that affects any Latvian population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U131	Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U132	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, With regard to Mr Geodans' statements, remarks - I think Mr Dolgopolova's very precise answer - was one of the main reasons why I decided to apply for the debate. In reply, Mr Feldman also said that the opposition did not support... I think it is not difficult to enter the website and verbatim reports of the Saeima to examine all the debates that have taken place in Parliament on the issue of real estate tax and with this initiative (which originally came from the Cabinet of Ministers, straight from the Ministry of Justice, led by the New Conservative Party), which envisaged absolute inequality in the methodology, systematics for determining the actual new cadastral values. But what I would really call for would be to call on colleagues to set out at least as a joint competent commission on these issues in the Saeima, where initially all political groups delegated people dealing with municipal issues. It would be a Commission of Public Administration and Local Government to avoid empty speeches and real estate tax, so that we could talk about establishing a cadastral methodology sufficiently at the competent level, at expert level. To avoid the situation now being proposed, this irresponsibleness simply freezes the matter to the next Saeima. And I would also like to point out to Mr Feldman, my colleague Feldman, that the new conservative party is also represented at the Riga City Council coalition. And the Riga City Council - it is in fact management over about one third of Latvia's population. And if the Riga City Council reduced this coefficient of its real estate tax, for the residents of Riga now, during the crisis, it would have been one big, good job... at least one third of Latvia's population. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for this draft law to be supported this time (although the alternative project submitted to our commissions was rejected) so that we work on the next readings and indeed also decide that the National Administration and Local Government Commission is co-responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U133	The name to Member Ralph Nemir. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U134	Yes, thank you, President of the House. Colleagues, from the amendments to the Real Estate State Cadastre Law we have moved to negotiations on real estate tax, which in the context of this law is not directly related, but is directly related in the context with other laws and regulations. In this case, the discussion on the changes in cadastral values should be now, because - why? Because really, looking at some Kadastrs.lv, very many cadastral values have lost their relevance, is absolutely disproportional to the market value. And that creates inequality, creates a different understanding of why I have to pay more. The citizen can ask such a question - why should one have to pay less? Thus, if we look at the studies of the Bank of Latvia, which are related to various benefits, benefits and their application, then it should be said that the Bank of Latvia also indicates that these benefits, various benefits, must be much more targeted. This also applies to real estate tax concessions. A linear application of such discounts in one of the municipalities is not a very correct decision, as there may in principle be people living next to them with very different income but very similar cadastral value of property. Therefore, if the municipality is obliged to take care of the population, who could pay more in this way or, on the contrary, cannot cover such great cadastral values... big real estate tax... apply discounts much more purposefully. Therefore, if we talk (and at the moment the discussion shows that the cadastral values of real estate are closely linked to real estate tax rates), then, in my opinion, really the Legal Commission should carry out this work together with the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government Affairs, and it should be defined as a joint responsibility. It would be quite logical because it is exactly the cadastral values that are already linked... and it is also stipulated in the law... necessary for the calculation of real estate tax. The proposal would be to define the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government as a co-responsible commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U135	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U136	Dear colleagues, A little point to what Mr Dolgopolov said, because there will be no drop in municipal income, say, growth or tax reduction, because the real tax will already be like that, it will be about land. But I forgot to say only one thing, perhaps by objecting now to Mr Dolgopolova - because the municipalities are already earning their money from management. Many municipalities have water, sewage, waste disposal and street management companies for which the municipality receives money. And it also receives personal income tax. I think that it is the citizens who will move more to those municipalities where there may be a better treatment, for example, to the same construction of housing. And the last one. I think the connection is the most direct one right now: the calculation of the cadastral... tax, take into account, as rightly said here, for example, the improvement, the rest, and if a millionaire builds a house next to the fishermen's house, then he seems to raise the cadastral value of the entire surrounding area. I think that if we had this real estate tax on land only, then there would be no reason to raise these taxes in this way, the system of its calculation, I think, could be much more objective. Well, for example, the plots at the water or at the golf course - they would all be more valuable, and the plots located somewhere, let's say, in a distant place from transport or in a worse place - their value would be lower, but would not be separated by separate pieces just because... and would not raise their cadastral value, i.e. the value of real estate, just because someone has built a house there. At the same time, the State and the municipality will not remain tax-free, as its compensation will take place... If someone has built a larger house, he will pay more perhaps to the same municipal company that provides district heating. Well if there is his own heating, then in any case there will be both insurance, management, and waste disposal, and all other taxes - VAT, which will be in these charges. In no case will a municipality or someone else, including the state, receive less just because there will be no housing tax - for the first or the second, or, as I said, for the twentieth. It seems to me that it would be more important for a municipality to collect both personal income tax and land tax. And let us remember that when 2025 comes to an end, the cadastral value will inevitably be brought closer to market value, and payments for this land will already be much higher, real estate tax will already be much higher. I think it should be somewhere in the middle between the present... it should be more salinity than the current land tax, but less than the total tax on the house. Some optimal solution must be found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U137	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U138	Dear Mr. Kirstein! I would like to remind you, first of all, that I am not talking about this: the income from real estate tax in the municipality will increase or decrease. I am referring to the fact that municipal property tax takes the second place in terms of revenue. Each municipality, by the way. I am talking about the fact that it must be a tax on the part of the municipality, physically and legally, because those dealing with finance know what I am talking about. Secondly. To be honest, I did not expect you to say that dumping was one of the sources of municipal revenue. Such cases - everything you mentioned - are rarely dealt with by municipalities as such or by municipal companies, by private companies and by private capital. Local governments receive here only the part of the taxes laid down in other tax laws and from other taxes. Therefore, it is not a source of municipal revenue in any case, but it has always been and is local... the headache of any municipality, how to organize it. By the way, the example of Riga, where you... By the way, the party you represent was also very actively involved in the disposal of the waste, that here is a misorganized process that, to be honest, almost caused the situation that Riga would fall into waste. And today, all these things are not fully arranged after the chaos that the Saeima had introduced specifically in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U139	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U140	Good evening, colleagues! I am listening to this debate and I understand that Latvia's society is likely to have another opportunity in the near future to ascertain the capacity and competence of this coalition. It is only at the end of the debate that the debate begins to realise that, in fact, the subject of the draft law is not the value of immovable property, but the cadastral values that are further used to determine the amount of real estate tax. Here, this is a very important nuance. So, colleagues, if you really want to sort out this issue and find a logical and socially fair solution here, then it is not possible to find it in the narrow context that you are currently trying to do, that is to say, it must be understood that what is happening, which has already been recorded several times, is not a solution, but simply a problem is postponed so that we can move on to another side and do not solve it at the moment. That is the main idea and purpose of this draft law at the moment: to hide its work, its current incompetentness, simply to postpone it for a few years, so that it does not become so. What should be done to actually resolve this matter? First of all, I have to understand that it needs to be addressed in a broader context. So, when it comes to cadastral values, now, as the system is in place, it will have a serious impact on the real estate tax - it will have to be paid by every household or by these property holders. So one thing is this connection to real estate tax. The second thing that we are so going to do is to tax policy itself. So if you want to sort this out... It is not possible to make this point meaningfully if you do not look at the whole context of tax policy, that is, first of all you have to answer for yourself how this tax base will develop. Understanding how it was rightly stated here that this real estate can be taxed in a wide range of ways, both directly and indirectly, through the service that is provided for the maintenance of this property, through how it is improved and so on, and so on, you first and foremost, those who will form this tax policy must give themselves the answer - what we see in this real estate tax in the whole context of this common tax policy. What is characteristic of real estate tax, which has already been pointed out by experts many times - both in our homes and internationally - is one of the most simple taxes to be administered, to be collected. Therefore, power very often uses it, because it is really very simple, without problems, to collect this tax. Very clear base, very simply to do so. Here, then, we must make a distinction and make a decision - whether and how we do it, how we divide this tax burden between different taxes. That's one thing. The second thing that has already been rightly pointed out here is that it is important to realise that this tax goes completely by one hundred per cent to municipalities, not to the state. And that's another thing where I see why you can come together again in the "merry" around this further creation of the tax, when those in power in the country will easily deal with the fate of local governments, without counting on how this tax can further affect the budgets of the local governments. It is also very important to understand. It is only by understanding this broader scope, this broader context, that it is right to move forward on all these issues, because, as has been rightly pointed out, these cadastral values can vary as they have now been decided and can have a significant impact on the burden of these further taxes, regardless of what has actually happened to this real estate. Here again comes a matter of principle. One thing if this property is still located... We can talk about this socially unfair situation, which is often mentioned, let us say, in the cases of Jurmala, when a rich man suddenly built a proud house next to him and, as a result, all those who live in those same old wooden huts, a significant change in real estate tax. And that's unfair. On the other hand, if they sell this little hut, so that instead another rich man could build his large building, they will most likely make a good profit, thanks to the rich man who built the building next to him and raised the value of the land. That is why we need to look again for a real, correct mechanism. I could already propose this mechanism, but... What I would like to call for it to be rational for us to debate it and really rational decisions - look at it all in a broader context, to understand what this tax would be... in general, the role and share of taxation, real taxation in the common tax policy. Then think about how to relate it to cadastral values, and then you can also figure out what to do with these cadastral values. On the other hand, when it comes to real estate tax, it would be reasonable to think here about creating the progressiveity of differentiation, namely, actually helping to some extent, say, 100 thousand euros or 200 thousand euros - this tax rate is one or not applied at all, and then it is further increasing, achieving that it is really only an exclusive, expensive property that the tax rate becomes higher. In this way, we can achieve some kind of social equivalence, provided that we choose to place a principle emphasis on our tax policy on real estate tax. That is how I see this debate that should be carried out if you really want to sort out this issue, rather than making a fig leaf to cover up your incompetentness and failure. First of all, we should start with a debate on tax policy, understanding the importance of each tax we leave. I therefore fully agree that this Commission, the Legal Commission, is absolutely not the Commission - it has no competence - which should decide on it. The Commission should be replaced. That's one thing. The other thing is that I would really ask you to think more about it. That is all from my side for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U141	Name to Member Juris Jušas. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U142	Good afternoon, colleagues! So at this debate, the draft law “Amendments to the Real Estate State Cadastre Law” really made a number of sensible things that correspond to the actual situation and are rational, but at the same time many different lies, falsehoods. I'd like to make a brief point about what this square is, as it actually is... overall why we are debating this particular draft law today. So I will just remind you that the previous government, the government of Kučinski, has, at the time, given the task of the Ministry of Justice to develop a new methodology for calculating cadastral value, which is as close as possible to the actual market value. Unfortunately, in view of the fact that the inability to carry out this work was obviously or was not enough, and was afraid of public dissatisfied (in view of the fact that, if the methodology is subordinate to market values, these cadastral values are inevitably increasing and the amount of property tax paid to citizens would automatically increase), this task was actually postponed, it was not fulfilled. What he did at the moment, the Minister of Justice, Bordan, has fulfilled this task. He has thus developed a new methodology for the calculation of cadastral value, but knowing that, by introducing this methodology and not addressing the real estate tax system as a whole at the same time, it is totally unacceptable. We all understand very well, and I hope everyone agrees that real estate tax should not be confiscating. It must not be possible for people to take away property simply because they are unable to pay property tax. Therefore, in order to avoid such a negative situation, and I would like to remind you that at the moment there are at least five thousand execution cases for bailiffs in Riga, which are directly based on the fact that citizens are unable to pay for their real estate the bills they have installed... That is why what needs to be dealt with urgently is that we need to change the real estate tax regime, the system. I think that this real estate tax should be paid to be fair, so that the solution proposed at the time for real estate tax is not actually the minimum from which it is not calculated for primary housing, I would like to emphasise - it is the primary, not the only housing - that unfortunately has not received support among coalition parties, despite the fact that everywhere else in the civilised world, in Europe, in our neighbouring countries, such a system or similar systems are being implemented. At the moment, as the previous speakers, who I believe have such an in-depth understanding of this issue, have already said, the question of the methodology for calculating the cadastral values must be dealt with directly in the context of the whole methodology for calculating the real estate tax. If this is not done, such a methodology cannot be approved, otherwise it will have very serious consequences for Latvian citizens, owners of real estate. Therefore, at the moment this process is somewhat frozen until the Ministry of Finance, the Minister of Finance, becomes more active than it has been until now, to work together with all the parties involved - the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and the Ministry of Justice - to jointly develop a system that would be fair for all Latvian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U143	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U144	Colleagues! Society! A little schizophrenic to me was the effort of the New Conservative Party to the benefit of the people... Well, a little bit of memory must try, as you say, to refresh the JCPOA Members. It was Minister Bordāns and the Ministry of Justice who prepared the project, which caused indignation in society about the drastic development of real estate tax by reviewing cadastral values. And both entrepreneurs and people in a mass way were not only confused, but it was quite clear that such a system, by raising the cadastral values, would destroy Latvia completely. The JCPOA then turned out to have shot over the strip and then, of course, in its classic manner, thinking that all citizens were rather uneducated and do not understand anything, began to talk about something they wanted to reduce there. From the beginning it offers a drastic boost and then tries to hang yourself orchards at the chest. This is the first schizophrenic section that the listeners of this sitting should also remember. The second section, which is also a little schizophrenic, is that we are talking about taxes, in fact about taxes, although, at the meeting of this Saeima, there was such a concept from coalition that all taxes will change once and together will do all this and that everything will be transparent and logically understandable to everyone. We have already experienced many times that each one (not heard.) ... goes alone and nothing is understandable to anyone. In a normal country, if you would like to make some tax reforms, then all taxes in general should look at them, as this could help Latvian citizens, business development and everyone else, not separately. The third chapter, which also relates directly to such a schizophrenic understanding, in my view, is that it is, of course, already beautiful that real estate tax should not be such as to deprive people of the property in which they live or not - it is not important at this time. At the same time, court bailiffs supervised by the Minister of Justice Bordāns following requests from Riga City Council (managed for example for Development/About! The new Unity and National Association, which are part of the same coalition and which takes care of the improvement of demographics, the return of people to Latvia, are sending out these actual execution orders in a mass way to take away the actual citizens' money and everything else. In this context, I must say this: if we want to improve demographics in the country and if we want to improve the business environment, then we should look at all taxes in general. Looking at all taxes in general, the only right solution is how the feeling tells me that the housing that people have raised for their own money and paid taxes, first of all, by receiving income to build a house, then paying for building materials, paying builders and paying taxes... Housing and the improvement of the environment, which people themselves are doing to raise value, are not subject to taxes in the country as a whole. We don't need to look far. We can take Lithuania as an example. If we want to develop... I think that, in order for us to grow in business, so that we get investments and so on, I think that we can certainly find them in other positions, about how much real estate tax is levied - at the price of 200 million. I allow real estate tax to be the tax that should be abolished at all. It would help bring people back to Latvia, it would help business, and then after a while we could watch, review and similar. But if we want a breakthrough, including an economic one, then it would be a means of acting. I understand that there will begin to scream perhaps in local governments or something like that, so I say: all tax reform (and unfortunately, in Latvia, the words “tax reform” are always linked to tax increases rather than reductions) should be seen as complexes across all tax positions. Of course, it is also inconceivable to the mind - because you are more and better setting up the environment, say, your real estate, because it becomes more valuable and you have to pay more for it. You have a higher penalty than you're a better quality and a better mix of the Latvian land. It is absurd, complete and ultimate absurd! Then it happens that better we all live in wooden casks, we don't develop anything, because then we will have less tax. It's completely absurd! Finally. Its bureaucratic play with words, too, is the only housing, the primary housing. Well, I'm sorry. In essence, the same thing. And create a situation where people have only one home... God gives that every citizen of Latvia has more property, God gives that he should pay less for these property in tax and that we would have a tax system in which we would receive more with low taxes at the expense of that, that we would have a greater turnover for the country in business and various areas of business. That would be the right direction to look at. And at all, by the end of the day. We can talk about the protection of some people if the New Conservative Minister of Justice actually covers the disciplinary proceedings of the bailiff and insolent executions, or one of them there simply because the member of the New Conservative Party, Mr Berg, represents the bailiff in a dispute where there has been a complaint about the bailiff. What kind of protection can we talk about here?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We can only talk about duality. Once again fooling people, just the same fool as "3 × 500" or anything else that the UKP is talking about. I believe that the UKP is only doing this - stupid people and trying to get into prisons, not education and so on. Nothing in the JCPOA's activities is in the interests of the people, and this must always be remembered and remembered. Real estate tax in Latvia must be abolished! If you want Latvians to return to Latvia, it must be abolished! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U145	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U146	Dear colleagues, With the full support of what Mr Valaiņa said, I would like to point out once again to some of my fellow Members: well, really, come on, please look at those responsible in the Saeima. The new conservative has been working for two years, and in the meantime, I think it is a reservation that you have failed to reach an agreement with your coalition colleagues, a little childish, because, in fact, this exemption from the only or primary, as you will call it, real estate tax was one of the most important components of your party's programme. It is thanks to this promise (not to mention “3 × 500”) that people also went and voted for you. Many of your constituents, who are disappointed in you and who simply cannot wait when you finally come forward with the implementation of these proposals, are appealing to us. We've had... We have had a think tank with these activists who are working on the abolition of real estate tax and who have also collected signatures from ManaBalss.lv, and, in principle, independent Members were those who finally achieved that these collective submissions are to be submitted several times if they have reached... exceeded these 10 thousand signatures again... the limit. So we did what you didn't do, at least that little thing, we managed to get this question up to the Saeima again, despite the fact that already 12. The family had this task, but nothing was done with it. Now nothing is done with the same question. Well, probably the third time will come, and for the third time you will also have to judge in front of your constituents and the whole of Latvian society. I would like to remind you, honourable colleagues from the New Conservative Party! Some time ago, very recently, it seems to me that even less than a month before this sitting, together with my colleague, Mrs Švekova, we presented proposals in the code law (in one of them) that we should think about how to exempt the people of Latvia from real estate tax fines. Mr Feldman replied that he does not believe that we cannot now get rid of the penalties. But we cannot, and we have clarified and confirmed these concerns. Indeed, as long as the legislator can not go ahead with the real estate tax payers, the local authorities will continue to collect fines, despite the fact that this payment deadline has been postponed. It's not helping anyone, it's not getting smaller. And the fines, the interest on fines, begin to accumulate. There is absolutely no concern about this, although you were in the Riga City Council and you were those who could already foresee a reduction in real estate tax in this budget. Just like you did before to others who were in the Riga City Council before you that they did nothing. Now you are those of whom you are asked and expected not only to clean the streets from snow, but also to start thinking about Rigans and their interests, because of course, come and tell posters and feisbuck to talk - that's one thing, but actually do and implement this issue you can't at all, as we can see. You have all the power, you have the Ministry of Justice, you have the Riga City Council. Please take action, we expect help from you. You may at last really come and solve the problem that has come up for years. But, as we see, you can only speak, you can do nothing. That's why, of course, I call... Together with our colleagues, we will support this proposal, but in any case we will also continue to work to make sure that this abolition of real estate tax on the only housing is on the agenda, that this issue is on the agenda and that it is finally resolved over the years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U147	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U148	Colleagues! I would like to respond to Mr Gaidan, but I think it will be quite impossible to reply to Mr Gaidan. It is necessary to have a little more understanding of the tax policy system and to understand that this draft law speaks more about the bases themselves. What is this coefficient, 0.2 or 1.5. If your base is high and unfair, then you can apply what coefficient you want, nothing will help people there. We know such examples: even with a 90 per cent discount, in some cases, this burden is inexpensive for citizens anyway. But what I applied for was more to answer Mr Jušas about the approach to what happened in the government of Kučinski. The government of Kučinski was given... the cadastral values were not confirmed and the task was given to correct them. If you want to tell me that this task has been fulfilled, I can tell you - no, this task has not been fulfilled. Because those mistakes... The very fundamental mistakes that led to the fundamental changes... Not done. But there is great consensus that real estate tax reform is needed. Perhaps there is now a shared responsibility in a way. Real estate tax itself has been transferred into full administration of municipalities, municipal income. We have just seen in the vote that almost 100 million tax revenue can be removed from the municipalities. And maybe we should... Think about it, maybe it is worth taking full control of this tax on the government side. If all have so many ideas as to how this tax should develop further, now, take it on the national side, return the proportion, for example, to 85 percent of the income tax for municipalities, and take this tax completely under your control. Then we will be able to see how well it was, when the tax was managed by local governments, and how well it will be if we try to collect the tax and set individual rates. It's about basic bases. However, looking at this issue, one thing will be even more emphasised: it is absolutely right if we are talking about any form of exemption from real estate tax for citizens that cannot be seen - and it will not be possible for any government - or for this or for any other) to be removed from the common tax system. In principle, this means tax reform. I would like to remind everyone that, in my view, the tax reform has already taken place within this coalition, and it took place a few months ago before all our eyes for more than a week. If someone thinks that there will be yet another serious tax reform, then I think it is misleading myself or fooling other people. Because it is likely that no tax reforms will be possible for this government. All this has already happened. If I'm wrong, colleagues, prove it in your work! I am ready to support any kind of initiative that is included in both this law on the exemption of real estate burdens, any kind of issues, tax changes that will in some way address this issue... Indeed, it would bring you closer to real life, implementation, and even for my part, I am ready to write draft laws, even every week, to motivate you to start moving. Colleagues, the New Conservative Party, show that there is some point in your government. If your initiatives are not supported, then the question is: what are you doing there at all, or what makes sense to you? What, then, are you fighting for? And this is the one thing you promised voters. Well, fight! Maybe we'll help you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U149	I closed the debate. Mr. Yusch, please do you want something to say on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U150	There is nothing to add on behalf of the Commission. Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U151	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Real Estate State Cadastre” at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U152	The deadline for submitting proposals is 12 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U153	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 12 February this year. Thank you. Next on the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the United States on ensuring the functioning of the private educational institution “Latvian International School””. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U154	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, In its meeting, the Foreign Commission examined draft law “Amendment to the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the United States on ensuring the functioning of the private educational establishment “Latvian International School””. Colleagues, briefly on the reason for the amendment in question and its creation. On 12 March 2003, the Minister of Education and Science of Latvia signed an agreement between Latvia and the United States on ensuring the operation of the private educational establishment “Latvian International School”. The Agreement was adopted and approved in accordance with the Law of 15 June 2006 on the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the United States of America on the Establishment of a Private Education Institution “Latvian International School”. The draft law, which we are looking at, is designed to ensure compliance with the obligations set out in the agreement between Latvia and the US on the operation of this private educational establishment “Latvian International School”. The obligations of the Contracting Parties of Latvia do not comply with the European Union regulations regarding exemption from customs duties, by means of a draft law providing for a delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to determine the procedure for the repayment of customs payments and natural resources tax to the private educational institution “Latvian International School” for the goods specified in Article 3(2) of the Agreement between Latvia and the United States on the Establishment of an Educational Institution “Latvian International School”. Colleagues, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this bill came to the Foreign Affairs Commission already in September 2019. The question is, why is the matter being dealt with for so long? So at the September 2019 meeting, there were reservations from the Legal Bureau about the need for such separate... on tax reliefs to the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers if there is general regulation of the Law “On Taxes and Fees”. So the commission decided... left without progress until this matter was resolved. Recently, the Foreign Commission received an opinion from the Ministry of Education and Science on compliance with the requirements of the European Union, because one is a bilateral agreement for us, an international agreement between the US and Latvia, but at the same time Latvia has specific obligations as a Member State of the European Union, and therefore a editorial solution to avoid contradictions will be submitted at second reading. Consequently, on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, I call on Members to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U155	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the first reading of the law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the United States on Implementation of the Activities of the Private Education Institution “Latvian International School”””! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U156	Proposals should be submitted by 9 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U157	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 9 February this year. Thank you. We see the last draft law on this agenda - Amendments to the Construction Law, second reading. 39 proposals On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U158	Welcome again, colleagues. Today we will consider the draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law” (No. 574/Lp13). I would remind you that the draft law was drafted by the Ministry of Economics, and its aim is to establish a clear division of responsibility in the construction process between the participants of the construction process, to define the responsibility of the contracting entity, to strengthen the competence of the local government building board and the State Construction Control Office. We have received 39 proposals for the second reading. And then in order. 1. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Miezaiņš, provides for clarification of the term "construction project". The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U159	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U160	2. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Miezaiņš, provides for clarification of the term "construction documents". The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U161	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U162	3. - Member Riekstins' proposal provides for the addition of an engineering consultant to the construction process... The proposal was partly supported by the Commission and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U163	Let's start a debate. The name to Member Ralph Nemir. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U164	Yes, the honourable head of the Saeima sitting! I will make proposals 3, 4 and 5. These proposals are closely linked. Although the Commission partly supported proposals 3 and 4, which were incorporated into proposal 5, this was still a long time in the process of examining the draft law... Well, let's also say, consideration of a modified draft law. I would like to say that, in fact, the term "engineering consultant" and its definition... In the future, the Ministry of Economics is committed to meeting the industry and to inviting the Members concerned to deal with this issue as well. So now, the engineering consultant... This reservation in both proposals 3, 4 and 5 is not very logical, because therefore the Ministry of Economics will agree with the industry on a editorial change and a proposal that will be proposed to us in the Commission, respectively, for the third reading. Consequently, at this point in time, I am calling for proposals 3, 4 and 5 not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U165	I closed the debate. Members have requested a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Mr. Sanda Riekstin's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 18, for - 36, for - 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U166	4. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Miezaiņš, provides for the addition of the... with the developer of the construction project. The proposal was partly supported by the Commission and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U167	No vote required. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U168	5. - the proposal of the committee responsible is intended to complement the construction process... with an engineering consultant and a building project developer. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U169	Members have requested a vote. Please... Oh, debate, I'm sorry. I see - the debate, yes. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U170	I just wanted to draw attention to the fact that, once the Commission has supported it, there is probably something to support. Such a rapid turnaround may sometimes also confuse Members, so I recommend that we stick to the table. We support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U171	The debate is ongoing. The name to Member Ralph Nemir. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U172	Dear President, For the sake of precision, proposals 3, 4 and 5 also refer precisely to this definition of an engineering consultant, which will then be proposed to us in the Commission for its third reading. And it makes sense not to distinguish by the proposer, but by its content. Consequently, I call for this proposal not to be supported, because in future, the Commission will have a editorial clarification on both the definition and perhaps also on the responsibility of engineering consultants and others involved in the construction process. This will make the draft law clearer and the industry will also be able to participate in the drafting of this draft law. Thank you. Please do not support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U173	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, what is to be added?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U174	I can only remind you that this proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U175	So Members have asked for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - the committee's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 46, for - 25, for - 4. The proposal is supported. Dear colleagues, Colonel is 5 p.m. We are on our way for half an hour until 5.30 p.m. There's also a record of Members. It's over. Quorum has been established. See you at 5.30 p.m. to continue with this bill. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U176	Dear Members, Honourable Members! This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy - Member Sandis Riekstins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U177	Yeah, colleagues. Let's keep going. 6. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Miezaiņš, and provides for the clarification of the term "project developer of a construction project". The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U178	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U179	7. - Mr Riekstins' proposal provides for the addition of the law to the term "engineering consultant". The proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U180	The vote on this proposal has been requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Sanda Riekstin's proposal! Please vote mode! For -14, against -28 refrains -1. Colleagues, there's no quorum. I have to vote again. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Mr. Sanda Riekstin's proposal! Please vote mode! On - 14, against - 36, refraining from - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U181	8 / 8 - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Miezaiņš, provides for the addition of the law to the term "engineering consultant". The proposal has also not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U182	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U183	9. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Miezaiņš, provides for the replacement of the words “construction plans documentation” by the word “construction project” throughout the law. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U184	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U185	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics Miezaiņš' editorial proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U186	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U187	11. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Miezaiņš, intends to supplement the draft law with a description of the responsibilities of the architect of the building board. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U188	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U189	12. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Miezaiņš, is editorial and is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U190	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U191	13. - The proposal by Miezaiņš, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. It is also editorial and supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U192	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U193	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U194	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U195	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Miezaiņš, is editorial, supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U196	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U197	16. - Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics Miezaiņš' editorial proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U198	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U199	17. - Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics Miezaiņš' editorial proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U200	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U201	18. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Miezaiņš, provides for the exclusion of the third paragraph of Article 11 of the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U202	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U203	19. - The proposal by Miezaiņš, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. Replaces the terms in the second paragraph of Article 12, stipulates that the developer of a construction project and the proposer of the construction project agree on the level of detail at which the construction project is to be drawn up. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U204	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U205	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics Miezaiņš' editorial proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U206	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U207	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Miezaiņš, provides for the exclusion of the third paragraph of Article 12 of the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U208	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U209	22. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Miezaiņš, provides for the exclusion of Article 13 of the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U210	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U211	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Miezaiņš, provides for the exclusion of Article 14 of the draft law. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U212	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U213	24. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Miezaiņš, provides for the exclusion of the first paragraph of Article 19 and the renumbering of successive parts. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U214	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U215	25. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Miezaiņš, is editorial and has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U216	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U217	26. - the proposal by Member Riekstins to complement the duties and responsibilities of the proposer of construction by involving an appropriate construction specialist or a building committee (engine consultant) in the construction process. The proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U218	Members agree with the Commission's decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U219	27. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Miezaiņš, is intended to complement the duties and responsibilities of the proposer of construction. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U220	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U221	28. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Miezaiņš, intends to complement the duties and responsibilities of the developer of the construction project. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U222	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U223	29. - Member Riekstins' proposal provides for the right of the designer of a construction project to terminate the contract unilaterally if the proposer does not comply with the obligations set forth in Section 19.1 (3) of this Law. The proposal has not been supported by the Commission. Not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U224	Consequently, this proposal cannot be put to the vote, as the Saeima has also not supported 26. - Member Riekstin's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U225	30. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics Miezaiņš provides for the right of the developer of a construction project to terminate the contract unilaterally if the proposer of construction does not comply with the obligations set forth in Section 19.1 (2) of this Law. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U226	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U227	31. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics Miezaiņš states that the author of the supervision is responsible for the content of the instructions given to other participants in the construction process and the conformity of his agreed construction documents with the construction project and its solutions. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U228	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U229	32. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Miezaiņš, is editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U230	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U231	33. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics Miezaiņš lays down the responsibility of the contractor for the development and provision of additional detail of the construction project and its consequences. The developer shall be responsible for the compliance of the details and the solutions contained therein with the construction project and the solutions contained therein. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U232	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U233	34. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Miezaiņš, is editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U234	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U235	35. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Miezaiņš, is editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U236	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U237	36. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Miezaiņš, provides for the right for the participants of the construction process to impose additional obligations and responsibilities in the construction services contract without altering the basic obligations and legal liability. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U238	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U239	37. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics Miezaiņš provides for the obligation of a construction specialist to act in such a way as to prevent harm to the life, health, property or environment of persons, if he has established obvious violations of the requirements of regulatory enactments in the professional activities of another building specialist. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U240	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U241	38. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Miezaiņš, intends to clarify... a construction project from which administrative responsibility for arbitrary construction is provided for. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U242	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U243	39. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Miezaiņš, is editorial and is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U244	Members support proposal 39.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U245	I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U246	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law”! Please vote mode! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U247	The deadline for submitting proposals is 11 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U248	So the other proposals have not been made. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading of the draft law is 11 March this year. Dear Members, Honourable Members! We have therefore examined the agenda for the third remote emergency session on 4 February. However, the Saeima Bureau has received a number of questions from Members. Members Ivars Zariņš, Arturs Rubiks, Edgars Kucins, Valerijs Agešins and Jānis Tutins have submitted a question to the Minister of Economics Janis Vitenbergs about the implementation of the task set by the Electricity Market Law regarding the report to the Saeima on monitoring the operation of OIC stations. This question will be referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs. Members Ivars Zarins, Arturs Rubiks, Edgars Kucins, Valery Agešins and Jānis Tutins have also submitted a question to Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš “On the validity of decisions taken by your government regarding the suppression of Covid-19 disease’. Member Ivars Zarins has asked for a word to motivate the question. Please! Mr. Zarins, please apply. Member Ivars Zarins has the floor to motivate the question.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U249	Yes, as the whole society of Latvia has already noticed, the actions of this government are increasingly beginning to remind young children of their activity, who accidentally got to the steering wheel of the car and when the car has started to move, they do not understand what to do with it, as loudly and incoherently as possible, and also to pressure all possible pedals in a costly and inexhaustible manner, so that this car does not fall into a regular shed or a stable and a car, that is, a state, would not be crushed. We have prepared this question for Krišjānis Kariņš to help him understand how pointless his actions in the context of the Cobra crisis are. And it may help him make meaningful and thoughtful decisions. That is also our main objective. We also hope to receive an answer for the pointless measures he has taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U250	The question will therefore be referred to Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš. The next item is the question tabled by Members Ivars Zariņa, Arthur Rubika, Edgars Kucina, Valeria Agešina and Ivana Klementyeva, Minister of Economics Janis Vitenbergs, about the implementation of the task assigned to the Government by the Electricity Market Act with regard to the prevention of overcompensation of OIC stations and the implementation of the common technological principle. Member Ivars Zarins has asked for a word to motivate the question. Please apply, Mr. Zarins. ( Pause) Member Ivars Zarins has the floor to motivate the question.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U251	It is therefore a matter of eliminating overcompensation. As you know, colleagues, we adopted a law already at the beginning of last year which required the Ministry of Economics to develop new rules to prevent this overcompensation mechanism. And it had to be done. Those rules had to be adopted by 31 August. This was governed by the law. It is still unknown whether such rules have been developed. At least last year, even at the very end of the year, when we saw it, such rules were still not in place. The law also requires all stations to be revalued by the end of March. This is about the nine million, which in this way... This overcompensation, which is still being granted. We ask the Ministry of Economics for an explanation and justification as to how we actually have now with the prevention of overcompensation, whether or not the law is being enforced. This also applies to the political forces that promised to fight the OIC. At the moment, the opposite is true: its coverage continues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U252	The question will be referred to Minister for Economic Affairs Janis Wittenbergs for a reply. Members Karina Sprūde, Jūlija Stepanenko, Aldis Gobzems, Lubova Švecova and Viktors Valainis have submitted a question to the Minister of Health Danielas Pavlutas “On the spread of infectious diseases in Latvia”. The question will be referred to the Minister for Health, Mr Pavlut. Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Aldis Gobzems, Lubova Švecova and Viktors Valainis have submitted a question to the Minister of Health Danielas Pavļutas “On the Ministry of Health document “Assessment of the requirement for learners to use oral and nasal covers during and outside the study process””. This question will be referred to the Minister for Health, Mr Pavlut, for a reply. Members Ivars Zarins, Valerijus Agešins, Arthur Rubiks, Regina Ločmele and Edgars Kucins have asked the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavlutas, “On the results of the service test, the real ones responsible for purchasing vaccines”. Member Ivars Zarins has asked for the floor for the motivation. Mr. Zarins, please log in to the system! Name of Member Ivars Zarins to motivate Members. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U253	Colleagues! I would like to ask everyone to take note of the published inspection report of the Ministry of Health in connection with this purchase of already legendary community vaccines. And I assume that, just like me, you will feel that this test has been carried out, not to investigate this possible crime, but to cover it up. The report mentions (A sound breakdown.) ... statements of the common view expressed at those meetings and in a decision which is not at all known whether it has ultimately been adopted. This type of information indicates either a lax inspection or an attempt to conceal information on the real circumstances of a possible crime and those responsible for it. The Devil always hides in detail, and these details are hidden from us. And that is why we will help to divide this situation, and we have asked specific questions about the specific things that we are asking the Minister to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2190-U254	Thank you. The question will be referred to the Minister for Health, Mr Pavl, for a reply. Members Lubova Švecova, Andris Kazinovskis, Jūlija Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde and Aldis Gobzems have submitted a question to the Minister of Defence Mr. The question will be referred to the Minister for Defence, Mr Pabrik, for a reply. All your Members' questions have therefore been read to you. Colleagues, I would remind you that the Saeima Bureau has announced the continuation of the agenda for the first remote emergency session on 28 January this year 15 minutes after the agenda for this third meeting on 4 February. So only the registration of participants. It's been a success. So I closed this sitting. And the session on 28 January will be resumed at 18.05. Thank you.
