ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U1	Dear Members, Honourable Members! The agenda for the second remote emergency session of the Saeima was launched on 27 May 2021. On the agenda, under the heading ‘Transfer and first reading of draft laws to commissions’. Draft law: ‘Amendment to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection’. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes to refer the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” to the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption and to establish that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? The vote is therefore requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, which is the committee responsible, the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 Law on Proliferation Management”! Please vote mode! No, 69, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. In accordance with the third paragraph of Rule 86 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption asks to direct the examination of these draft laws at the Parliament's first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Consequently, the draft law ‘Amendment to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection’ at first reading is under consideration. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Vita Anda Steel. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U2	Hello, Member of the Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, colleagues! European countries have agreed to set up a certificate to verify that the holder of the certificate has been vaccinated against Covid-19 or has been tested and tested with negative test results, that Covid-19 has bursted and that immunity has been maintained. This certificate will be recognised by all Member States of the European Union and will be used both when travelling in Europe and within Latvia to verify the person's right to benefit from the exceptions to the epidemiological security measures, for example, to visit public events or to receive services in the future. This draft law delegates to the Cabinet of Ministers the procedure for requesting, preparing, issuing, verifying and using this certificate. Both the opposition and the position members understood within the Commission the need to implement such a certificate as soon as possible. The Commission decided unanimously to push this draft law forward. I call for urgent action to be taken on the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U3	Mrs Stepanenko, will you want to debate urgency?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U4	Colleagues! I'll be...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U5	The urgency, huh? On the urgency you... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U6	I'm out with my head, yeah. You must have seen it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U7	I'm sorry. Are you going to talk about or against?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U8	The urgency of the case.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U9	So “no” urgency will be spoken by Member Julija Stepanenko. Please! Apply, please, once again in the system. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U10	Colleagues! I will speak both against the urgency and against the draft law itself, because this draft law, despite the fact that we seem to be talking about a European green certificate, will also be known... very, very significant changes in our lives at national level. There are, of course, a very large number of Members of the Saeima, as well as government ministers, and I therefore do not support the urgent adoption of this draft law when protesting against the draft law itself as such, as well as the adoption of this draft law at first reading. I call for a 'no' vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U11	Members have not applied to speak about the urgency. We must make a decision by voting. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” as urgent! Please vote mode! For - 75, for - 4, for - 1. Draft law has been declared urgent. Mrs. Steel, would you like to add something else on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U12	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U13	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U14	Colleagues! As I have already said, I call on you not to support this draft law at first reading. I am very aware, I see that we will be in a minority - we, those who oppose segregation of the population, those who oppose the sorting of such people - but we are aware that it will not be very long, we are aware that more and more people are becoming aware that this type of treatment and this kind of sort of sort of sorting will not be acceptable. I can see very well that such a game with people's fate, with people's freedom, is interesting to someone who feels very exciting, but it is very easy to get caught up with the sorting of such people when your freedoms have been taken away for more than a year. It is very easy to notice that there is a group of people who want to be vaccinated and a group who do not want to be vaccinated. It is very easy to sort such people apart and bind each other. This is the easiest way of ruling. Those people who are currently defending the segregation of such people, those people who are currently making such proposals - as we have heard - on 11 pages of different privileges for vaccinated people - do not, of course, think of the fact that such a rule will not last, because it is really the easiest form of rule. Those people who are very interested at the moment in granting such privileges to vaccinated and unvaccinated discrimination probably do not fully understand that this is the easiest way to feel superior. You don't have to go to university, you don't have to invent the engine, you don't have to invent a new drug formula to make you better than others in your collective. You're enough to just vaccinate and put a picture on "Covid-19" so that you seem to belong to some higher, better... the chosen box. This is the easiest way, but it is also the most deplorable way in which perhaps someone who has long dreamed of being better than others and of being part of a higher society can now make it very easy to realize his dream. However, I will repeat: it is a mistake! I call on the whole respectable society of Latvia, which is now partly frightened by what awaits them, partly hopeful that this nightmare will come to an end very soon, to look with you very closely at what is happening in Latvia's policy, to look at the fingers of our Members, our Ministers and to see how easily they are impressed by this seemingly desire to be better, this seemingly hope to rule over people... divide them into two fronts - vaccinated against unvaccinated ones - and sowing hatred between them. We can see that people are already ready to fight for one another because it seems to him that the other person is threatening him. You have achieved a division of society very quickly - within a few weeks. Therefore, I call on the Latvian society to really follow what is happening. We cannot change this situation; we are only four Members of the Saeima who do not support such segregation. We, of course, very much hope that in time someone else will be able to wake up from this nightmare and understand what he is doing. But we are very little yet, and we are aware of that. We cannot change this situation; we cannot promise people that they will not be laid off. We are trying to fight for those students who are now threatened with deducting from the university for not vaccinating them. We are trying very hard to save people from this nightmare, but our resources are very small. So if someone is made redundant, maybe someone will lose the opportunity to learn... And that's going to be a very big loss... However, we invite you, dear Latvian society, to keep your work away from those politicians who currently decide on your fate when playing. We call on you to pluck them out of the lawn like milk, so that they never return to politics or play with your fate. I call on you to follow. And I call on those colleagues who are currently following events in the Saeima to listen to one ear of what is happening - I call on you to think about and perhaps not at least vote in favour of this draft law. I call on those who have a conscience to vote against. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U15	We are continuing the debate on the draft law. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U16	This will be about vaccination, about restrictions and about everything that we all have long been tired of. If it is honest, I am purely human, and I don’t care if a person wants to or does not want to vaccinate. In my opinion, this is an individual choice, because the individual choice of each person is to make a decision in his or her life, what kind of medical manipulation he or she wants to carry out with him or her and what he or she wants to refuse. So far, I would also like to call on the whole of society to stop presuming whether vaccines are good or not. This is a pointless discussion about the circle. Some will believe, and others will not believe. One will need it, the other will not need it. Well, it has been and has been used as an excellent tool to divide society. I think that vaccination as a medical procedure should be voluntary. I have a number of arguments - why. I have been vaccinated against certain diseases in my own life, and I could not regard myself as such a sworn anti-vaccine. But that doesn't mean that I've always vaccinated everything only when something, I don't know, new appears... if it is a fashion shout or something. I've always appreciated what I need and what I don't need personally. I've been looking around people and also looking at how people react in their closest circle of acquaintances. My closest acquaintances are doctors who are sworn vaccineers, and there are doctors who are not vaccine recipients, there are people who are not doctors, but who have higher education and who have vaccination supporters, and are the same as those who are totally non-vaccinating. And everyone has their own reasoning. I've seen my friend's family, like children who have not been vaccinated, bare feet from early spring to late autumn live outwards - living healthy and sick. I've seen vaccinated people sick. And vice versa. And so my belief in any medical manipulation as a voluntary process has been strengthened over time, so this reasoning, which will follow, is not about medical treatment, but about legal arguments. And legal arguments for segregation in society are totally unacceptable. You will say that it is absurd to call this example, but sometime so it all started, once the Jews were denied to sit on a bench in the park just because they were Jews. It's like now for people who don't want to be vaccinated and who don't threaten anyone. I, a healthy man, can't threaten anyone else. Even if I am ill, I cannot endanger a person who has been vaccinated - but that is a logical thing, because we should be vaccinated already so that we are, as we say, protected and healthy. So no one is threatening us if we believe in this thing, but if we don't believe in it, then it's the feeling that it's all either a conscious business or a conscious global policy. It is not a policy that is invented in Latvia. Our politicians, who are in power, are not so brilliant to come up with this whole thing, and that's nothing new, it's seen in other countries. But there is a very interesting thing here, and the interesting thing is that these other countries are divided into very important groups: they are divided into British colonies, they are divided into countries that depend on the International Monetary Fund, they are divided into countries that are beyond the eastern border, and there is also a free, independent country such as Sweden, for example, or states such as Texas and Florida, and in such a spirit. There are different situations in the world. And, of course, always all those who cry out “Trust in science!” , asking a few questions, no reason to ever receive answers. And these questions, which are not answered, are: who will take responsibility for the consequences if vaccination does not have a negative impact or die from vaccination - a doctor or a pharmaceutical company? Who? Is the Member who took this decision? There is no answer. Question number two. How does it happen that this dangerous virus knows the borders of countries? The knowledge that are British colonies, knows which countries depend on international loans, and knows the countries where there are, I do not know, we may have unpleasant regimes, but there is nothing in this brotherly grave syndrome. How does that work? How it happens that professors at Harvard University epidemiologists bano or ban the use of social networking simply because they have a different view. Why? What are such concerns? How it happens that the statistics that we are told about every day say one, but the media and politicians say the other. Well, how does that work? I think statistics in the longer term, years. How does it happen that we have to trust in science without telling us what science is? Science is an article by Delfu or science is a decision made by politicians, whether science is the opinion of professors at Harvard University or Oxford University, or whether science is the World Health Organisation, which said, among other things, that masks can give a false impression. At the beginning of last year, such a report was published within the World Health Organisation. What is science? There is no answer. How does it happen that people who believe in vaccination - they are holy in faith. There are, too, people in this Saeima, in this Parliament who believe in it. How is it that they fear those who are not vaccinated? You've been vaccinated to be afraid of? You can't get sick anymore if you already believe in science. There is no answer to any of these questions, which leads to the conclusion that all these decisions are a clear move towards society's segregation, that this is not a health story, because health is not improved by the forced mechanisms in which society is being driven. The fact that society is being placed in prison for the second year actually does not improve health by prohibiting sports from drinking. My previous point was about drinking. Health is not improved by the fact that you cannot receive services to diagnose cancer in time, or sonography to wait for half a year, or magnetic resonance, or receive the most expensive medications in the region. Health... We know very well that Latvian healthcare system... If you want to get quality health care, you pay from your pocket or you have acquaintances and “may”. But if you're a man who doesn't have big financial resources, then you're going to get healthcare, but at some point in the end. You'll never get it right away. Well, only if you finally die. Is that not true? That's right. I think there are people in power in Latvia who serve the interests of globalists, who enjoy this moment of power (the other probably there will be no such thing in history - that people can be so limited) and who use it in different ways, which are lobbying apparently different business interests, but who have no connection to the general health of society, which has no connection to public security issues, which has no connection to the freedom that we are fighting for, which some of our politicians are changing... in the context of which some of our politicians change the flags of other countries in order to somehow hide their sitting in the log. I have spoken about Rinkēvičs or Staki from the Parishs, who in principle have done so much harm to our country's economy in the last days as possible. And that evil continues. I do not understand you, my fellow Members, those who call... not calling, but wanting to force everyone to vaccinate... You are ready to take personal - personal! - material liability for the negative consequences? If you are not ready to accept, then your whole argument is empty, pointless. If you are not able to vote that doctors who graft vaccines take no responsibility, that is the same thing. Or pharmaceutical companies, exactly the same thing. How can it be that no one brings any legal responsibility for any kind of medical manipulation? In all professions, everyone bears responsibility for all issues, but no one is responsible for this. Doesn't it seem significant and strange? And that's just my question. Very probably not. But if there is one law in a country - one right for everyone, one law - one right for everyone means taking responsibility for any negative consequences, including the negative consequences, which may be 0.0001 percent of people who will be vaccinated or forced to do so against their will. You're not being forced, dear Members of the Saeima, to go to the dentist, that you shouldn't come to the Saeima until you've repaired your teeth, beautifully repaired teeth, are you? The same is true with vaccines. No one in the Saeima forces you to give up drinking so that you can come to work. You can continue to do so. Just the same as with the vaccines. You are not being forced, Members of the Saeima, to do any other thing, I don't know, put your breast implants on, do not, do not, do not, it is your free choice, whether or not you are putting your breast implants on. And the same is true with vaccines. You'll say security. There, we need some arguments to talk about safety in a situation where statistics tell us something quite different. And there are no arguments! I therefore call for this to be avoided about 100 years ago, which is the beginning of a very dangerous, hostile process. And it won't get a good end. Leave the people free choice. Otherwise, we will end up with a very huge amount of discrimination at best, and in the worst case with a kind of genocide. And that's what I don't want to experience in my life. And I would not want my colleagues to have taken part in this segregation act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U17	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U18	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! It is quite interesting to observe that these amendments to the law, very important issues are discussed only by members of the opposition. I had the honour yesterday to take part, for the first time, in a meeting of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, in which amendments to the code of law are usually discussed. And I was surprised... I am surprised to note that there is no debate on the substance within that committee. What is happening is, rather, the conveyor - the conveyor for accepting government proposals and the conveyor for rejecting opposition proposals. It is interesting to me, then, where are you, honourable members of the coalition, in general... Where do you even have a debate on these issues? Where is the place, where is the format, where are you trying to understand what is happening? What are the proposed solutions, the consequences and so on. It does not happen here in the sittings - we all see it. It doesn't happen in Saeima committees. Are you doing this in coalition sittings? But most... 95 percent of you are not allowed to attend coalition meetings. So that's the logical question: do you really understand what's going on, or is it simply a stream of swimming? And you don't really focus and you're completely lost on these issues. To these amendments: Colleagues, I want to touch on three issues. First. Conceptually, as colleagues have also spoken about this, I would also like to point out my attitude with regard to the vaccination process. Second. Nearer... even closer to what is proposed in these amendments. I would like to ask you why these amendments are coming at all, why they are coming now. And the third point. I would like to ask a few colleagues about what really happened a week ago. I believe that, given what we have seen this week... I believe that some of my fellow Members have perhaps misinformed their fellow Members of the Saeima. So in turn. As regards vaccination. The first and perhaps most important, and where I absolutely agree with the colleague who has just spoken, Aldim Gobzem - I believe that vaccination is a voluntary choice for every person, for every individual. Absolutely voluntary. No one shall be forced to vaccinate by force. If we... But... the second point. It is an important question of the public interest - could it be in the public interest to say thank you not only in words, but also in works for those people, those individuals who have chosen to vaccinate. What are the choices, colleagues, society? You can either watch it, so say, absolutely completely liberal in such an ultraliberal way, if you want to, on how this disease in general... This pandemic is happening. Well, who then gets sick, as the classic said, either celebrates Christmas or does not celebrate the next, and then it's all. Either the public is trying to get something to stop this pandemic... If it tries to stop this pandemic, then science does not give any other answers and has not given over the last 1000 years as vaccines. It is very important to note here that vaccines can be effective enough and, of course, that no vaccine has been and has never been 100% effective. All its effectiveness can be measured by the probability that it will be effective, but it is never 100 percent. There are also side effects - for each vaccine, where 100 percent is not guaranteed to have or have no side effects. Whether they will be severe or not as severe or medium, or how. But it is absolutely clear that vaccination in any individual is associated with possible negative side effects. That's why they're very wrong... and without forgiveness, especially those who are members of the government and the ruling coalition, who believe that vaccination is something for granted and that those who do not receive vaccination are completely stupid or how. In fact, if we look at this, from a cynical rational point of view, it is perfectly understandable why an individual will not want to vaccinate, because then he... If he chooses to sit at home or in one way or another, he can both avoid possible side effects of vaccination and, provided that either other vaccines are given sufficient numbers, or they are overloaded, he or she will not suffer from covidal disease or vaccination. To say so, win-win. There is therefore nothing obvious about the choice made by individuals to vaccinate, as we see in reality. Therefore, it is in the public interest, colleagues, it is absolutely logical to say thank you not only in words but also in deeds, as I said, to those people who choose to vaccinate, and this not only reduces their individual chances of not being sick or not being sick, but also decides that they will not be carriers of that disease - the Covide virus - and that they will not infect other people. So for this good thing, society is also... It is entirely logical that the public can choose to say thank you to these people. Question two, colleagues. Why are these amendments at all today? I also have the temptation to ask a question: who then invented the title "interoperable certificates"? Well, okay, that's not what we've seen lately. Let us ask the following question: so if we assume that such action is right on the part of society - thank you to those people who have vaccinated and, of course, also to those people who have burst - then why does the Ministry of Health only present this now? Was it not known quite a long time ago that vaccination was the only route? And maybe the most important question. Is it really the Ministry of Health... Is it really possible for the government to issue, without amendment of this law, certificates or certificates to those who have vaccinated or have overloaded. I put this question to the Legal Bureau during the commission meeting. The legal office has not answered my question directly, but I have the conviction, colleagues, that the government would not have had any problem issuing the certificates, issuing a certificate to those people who want to get it, either vaccinating or overloading. I think it was possible all this time without any changes to the law. This leads us to ask: why, in general, the Ministry of Health has tabled these amendments to the law now? Here I come to my third point. On possible disinformation. We remember what happened a week ago, colleagues, when we debated the hockey issue here. Well, I guess not so much for a hockey... Well, it's really strange why some Members have focused directly on the hockey while there are closed gyms, schools and it's not clear whether children can go to summer camps, and so on, but yet. We have been told by colleagues here a week ago - I am sure we all remember this very well - that no, in no way should allow fully vaccinated people and those who have been overloaded to watch the Hockey Championship, because it would pose risks to public health, it would put a burden on the medical community and so on. It was, isn't it? It was. And then we... after that time... The Saeima makes a decision... the Prime Minister submits a resolution to the Ministry of Health for its assessment, and the Ministry of Health sends a letter. I am very careful about this letter, my colleagues. Nothing is said in this letter about the fact that people who have been fully vaccinated or who have been overloaded have some risk of watching their championships. There's nothing. It is just said here that those who have not vaccinated have risks, but that the Saeima has never decided on this, which the Saeima has not proposed. And then it turns out that the real reason, from the point of view of the Ministry of Health, is that there are no amendments to the law that would allow the Ministry of Health to issue its certificates to people. As I said before, it is highly questionable whether such changes to the law are necessary at all. So whether what we see here today is not the next series of governments trying to hide something, to distract attention from their failure, to distract attention from the questions why, honourable government, you and all of them... their assigned money for IT solutions... 1.4 million were allocated to the Ministry of Health for information technology solutions at the beginning of February to manage the vaccination process... so that the Ministry of Health tells us today that there is no IT solution to determine whether a person has vaccinated or not, or whether he has... How can that be? Why Lithuania has already introduced - it has already introduced! - their green passport for domestic use for those of their people who have completely vaccinated or vaccinated, but Latvia can only do so when the whole of the European Union is doing so, and it needs another IT solution. And you know what's most interesting, colleagues, in this whole solution of the Ministry of Health? If you read this letter, you will see words there that, even if the hockey organisers would like to use an IT solution that will be available from 1 June only, they should be taken into account (I am reading from the letter now, colleagues), that “the test of each visitor may take up to one minute”. Colleagues! What is the IT solution for the Ministry of Health that its use for one person may require up to one minute? Well, colleagues, in one minute... It's like... What are they gonna do there? They're gonna lift up the phone and call someone? - Hey, here's the introduction, check that Jānis Berzins is in that database. He's being given and checked. Is this an IT solution within one minute? A, and then, given that this option is not intended for mass measures, the Ministry of Health is also not in a position to assume responsibility for the stability of its operation under such stress conditions. So if a large number of people try to use the IT solution, which will take one minute for one person, 60 seconds... You, fellow Members, think about the IT solution that counts up to 60 to check whether a man... with this IT solution... has or has not shaken. And if still a large number of people apply, then this solution cannot work at all. Well, colleagues, what's happening to us in the country at all? What is happening to us in the country at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U19	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U20	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, I will continue the range of questions that my colleague Vjačeslav Dombrovskis has raised, which is why we are here today at all and when, in a way, the country will end this fear of surprise, which is unfortunately demonstrated by the state of Latvia at the moment. The State of Latvia demonstrated the fear of surprise at the moment when it came to the discovery that vaccines would be needed over the government. Then there was the next fear that the vaccination process should also be organised in some way, and green certificates are another fear. In a way, we are only beginning to talk about these issues when the European Commission is already forcing the Latvian State to introduce such solutions to ensure... and, in this case, I think it is more of the idea of providing a framework for citizens of other countries to move within the European Union, including in Latvia, and that all countries of the European Union should have this solution in place. And here's this other fright. Here, too... We contacted colleagues in Lithuania, Members of Parliament, and it was very clear there what the situation is for them, when they started to talk about these issues, to think. They already have such a solution, and people are using it, and there is much more freedom for people to socialise and visit cultural and sporting events. This is already happening. We're even random... For us even sports organizations are starting to organize events outside Latvia. Is that normal? Where have we come from with our brilliant readiness to organize our work? At this point, I would like to think that, in general, this issue has been raised, largely on the basis of the decision of the Saeima last week that there should be an opportunity for viewers to follow in the hockey. I have already emphasised this before and I also now stress that this hockey issue is, in my opinion, a very small issue if we are looking at common problems that are important to society. In this case, it is important to understand that these solutions, which should already have been ready and should have been debated yesterday, are now on the agenda for us and, as Mr Dombrovskis has already quoted from the letter from the Ministry of Health, at a very dubious level of readiness - if it is a minute or some time more IT solution has to be manually driven, or if something needs to be made sure that this is the case. I believe, colleagues, that does not make anyone proud of the readiness of our government to face these, I say, new challenges, the new order, which is currently very successful in fighting and introducing these solutions in a number of... I think in most European countries. Right here, our neighbors... who everyone can meet, call their parliamentary colleagues, call just friends right here in Lithuania, and ask how it really works there. What I also... which, for all this reason, because of this delay, for all these reasons... What we have reached is that we are taking very brutal treatment now of people who have not been vaccinated. Anyone who has not been vaccinated... There may be confidence, there may be various reasons, there may be health reasons - there may be different reasons, but at the time we introduce some kind of relief for people who have been vaccinated, we must also create the possibility for anyone who has not been vaccinated - whether it is a test or something... to be certain that this person is not ill. And at the moment if he's not sick, so he can also use... so that there's no separation of society between each other... It's possible... We have to find this opportunity in some way, however, as we allow people to attend an event, conference or other activity where... whether it's travel, move across borders. It must be possible to do this outside of these... for this vaccination, that you can prove that you are either ill or simply have a negative cord test. There must be such an opportunity, colleagues, in my opinion. If we separate ourselves in this way completely, we can really achieve a certain division of society. I think there's one... Let us say that there is a group of people who are very, very opposed, but there is also a group of people who have reason to believe that they do not do so - whether it is medical or it is in some other way, but there are also such people. We cannot discriminate against these people. In general, yes, colleagues, I think this is another indication that the government is doing its work very weakly. For my part, I am very pleased today that, after putting pressure on the government by the opposition... and, later on, there is a criminal case initiated by the prosecutor... it's going to work with something. At the moment, the prosecutor's office has already distributed a message in public space about the initiation of criminal proceedings for the purchase of vaccines. What I would like to say is that the responsibility of the Minister will also be assessed, which we will, of course, also continue to do in Parliament within our remit, but this... that we are looking at this, because right now 1 June is here, 15 June - a couple of weeks. We are launching today's debate in the Saeima on what the green certificate will be, and we see how unfinished we are with all the millions that have been invested in combating this pandemic. Hundreds of millions have been invested in, and we are not coping with fundamentals. Colleagues, it is a pity, a pity for Latvia's country, what we create our image of how we deal with really important things. The question of money to combat this pandemic has never been raised... that someone would miss something. The opposition has always supported money allocations for everything as well. Of course, if you're offered some stupidity, you can't support it, but different solutions... various things have been supported. In general, as I said, hundreds of millions have been spent here. And what do we see as a result? We see the result that, by nature, we have a European Commission home with its hands and, in principle, are already encouraging in every way: "Please start taking action, do something!" And when we do it, we realize that we are absolutely unfinished. Colleagues, I call on those responsible politicians, who are responsible and whose responsibilities this is, and every coalition Member to put pressure on his ministers to finally start working, to get in. Stop solving your personal ambitions, your internal problems! Maybe for some time at least start working, do something good for Latvian society so that we can have these shameful moments, dreads, as I said at the beginning, every time something is approaching... The revaccination must be carried out immediately and again there will be another fear that we are not ready for it. Colleagues, let's take a step ahead and finally start working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U21	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U22	I had not planned to take part in this debate, but because colleagues... several colleagues are already asking for clarification: what has happened suddenly, why the government has suddenly remembered and comes with such an initiative... Well, I'll explain why. Because... What happened this week. Very simple. We have made a request last week specifically about this story: how is the identification of these persons going to be carried out, about all these legal, technical aspects, about how the government plans, in general, to set up this preferential scheme for vaccineers, how it intends to justify it, so that it is proportionate, non-discriminatory and so on. And only after receiving these questions, to which the government will now have to respond, have they suddenly realized that - johohaidi! - We haven't come up with anything again. This government itself has fundamental problems, as we see, not only by making decisions, they do not even understand what decisions they need to make, that is, not only not being able to make decisions, they cannot even understand what decisions they need and what reasons they need if someone does not tell them. To be seen as an example, you remember, exactly the same, analogous, the story was covideous due to these restrictions on goods. There were restrictions on goods, and only after we prepared a request for Krišjānis Kariņš to explain why you offer specific such restrictions by mentioning concrete examples, did Krišjānis Kariņš suddenly discover that they made their decisions without proper justification that they had no reason at all for what they decided. And when we started looking for justification, it turned out that such decisions are not at all justified and should not be taken at all, they should be changed. Thus, we achieved the removal of these restrictions on goods in a rather short time, but until then the government had not planned to do anything at all. They did not even understand the stupidity that they accepted. Here's the same story. Like... just like Mr Valaiņa just mentioned this vaccination scheme. There, even after our request had been made, and specifically with the facts, we proved that it was the most... is already starting to danger after an apocalypse that has not been investigated and that should be investigated, and that no major questions have been asked, we see the reaction of the Prosecutor General's Office. But this is something we will still be talking about today, there will be a request. That will be an interesting request, and I will explain a number of things that would really be worth talking about here in Parliament, especially in the committee of inquiry. Still coming back to this story. Well, we're just seeing the sad story goes on and we're going to continue... Drop... Let us try to dispel the powerlessness and incompetentness of these powers. Well, and, of course, as a result of all this... the cost of both direct and passing - with money, with human lives and human health - because these unthinkable decisions... the unthinking decisions of this government are the main reason why we are going so hard to fight this infection. As a result of these decisions, its benefits are much less... than the evil that is created. The worst evil without real damage to the health of the nation is also undermining the nation's confidence in this power and its own country. And that is, my fellow Members, yours, yours, yours, yours, yours. I don't know if we can take part in all this... I don't know how we can do this, because we really need to do it, but I don't know why you don't want to accept it, you can accept it... You only accept it as, I'm sorry, Pavlov's dogs with training, only then you're developing some reflexes, and then you're doing something. Well, this is another solution from Pavlov's dog reflex. Well, let's see what's going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U23	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U24	I would remind you that the Commission unanimously supported the draft law at first reading. I also call on Members to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U25	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 Law on communicable Management”! Please vote mode! For - 76, for - 6, for - 1. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals and the sitting of the Saeima for the second, final, reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U26	On the basis of Rule 92 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, please do not set a deadline for the submission of proposals, but vote on the draft law at second reading at once.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U27	So do Members have reservations that these draft laws are being examined in the second, final, reading of this sitting of the Saeima? The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U28	I have reservations, yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U29	Thank you. So we cannot look at this draft law at this parliamentary sitting. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals on behalf of the Commission, Mrs. Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U30	On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to set a deadline for the submission of proposals at least five minutes, namely by 12.05 a.m., and for the examination - today, 27 May, in the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U31	Thank you. Are there any other proposals? So, another proposal... Mr. Zarins, please have a name. Mr. Zarins, we can't hear you, just see you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U32	Can you hear it now?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U33	Yes, Mr. Zarins!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U34	Understanding this situation when there is a desire to move as quickly as possible with this draft law... However, on the other hand, we must take into account the circumstances that exist at the moment, which means remote work. I would, however, call for a deadline so that those who wish to submit proposals can submit them, because it is technically impossible to do so within 5 minutes, because they must be signed, registered and similar. So my call would be, let's say, to fix it either, 15 minutes, because it has no difference - 5 or 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U35	And a hearing on 27 May, Mr. Zarin, if? Yes, so Mr Zarins agrees with this proposal. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U36	Thank you. Hello! If it is so important for the Government, and also, Mrs Steel, for you - because I have participated in the debate and discussions in the relevant Commission yesterday - to give an alternative or proper treatment to other fellow Members, and indeed to set a real, reasonable and good time for the submission of proposals, such as habits or needs. The fact that you've agreed something somewhere, excluding...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U37	Mrs. Papule, say... you have to make a proposal...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U38	... It's not right...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U39	Mrs. Papules, give me some time. There is no debate now. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U40	I'd ask... Well, you need the justification for every sentence... I would ask for 30 minutes precisely because the job is also remote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U41	Thank you. So three proposals have been received. We must start to look after the next deadline for tabling the proposal, i.e. 30 minutes, and make our own decision by voting. There are three different time limits for tabling proposals, but consideration at the Saeima sitting is announced on 27 May. Please call me! So we will first vote on the deadline for tabling proposals by 12.30 a.m. and consideration at the Saeima sitting on 27 May. Please vote mode! For - 17, for - 52, for - 2. The proposal for 30 minutes is therefore not supported. The next proposal is 15 minutes. So now it means by 12.16. Please vote in favour of the deadline for the submission of proposals by 12 noon and consideration by the Saeima at its meeting on 27 May! Please call and vote mode! For - 66, for - 13, for - 2. Consequently, the deadline for the second reading for the draft law is 12.16 p.m., and the debate is held by the Saeima at its meeting on 27 May. So let us also prepare, colleagues, that there will be new sittings of the Saeima. We shall continue to examine the agenda. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “On the Agreement between the Republic of Latvia and the European Organisation for Nuclear Research (CERN) on the Granting of the Status of a Member State associated with CERN”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Linda Medne. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U42	Hello, colleagues! Draft law “On the Agreement between the Republic of Latvia and the European Organisation for Nuclear Research (CERN) on the Granting of the Status of a Member State associated with CERN”. The aim of the draft law is to sign, adopt and ratify the agreement between the Republic of Latvia and the European Organisation for Nuclear Research (CERN) on the granting of the status of CERN Associated Member State, which provides for the granting of the status of CERN Associated Member State to Latvia and the right to participate in the CERN Scientific Programme, as well as in the CERN Training and Education Programmes, by continuing to deepen the cooperation started with CERN in 2016. The solution is participation of Latvian and Latvian participants in the CERN scientific programme, as well as training and participation opportunities of Latvian participants in educational programmes, including participation of Latvian entrepreneurs in CERN procurements. The Treaty shall enter into force in accordance with the procedure and within the time limits laid down in Article 4 thereof. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall give notice thereof in the Official Journal of Latvia. Request to examine the draft law and to vote on the urgency of Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U43	The Commission is therefore asking for the draft law to be declared urgent. ‘ Members have not applied to speak on the urgency or urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on the agreement between the Republic of Latvia and the European Organisation for Nuclear Research (CERN) on the granting of the status of a Member State associated with CERN! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U44	Thank you to Members for the urgent vote. We ask for a vote on the first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U45	So, in the debate, Members have not applied. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on the agreement between the Republic of Latvia and the European Organisation for Nuclear Research (CERN) on the granting of the status of CERN Associated Member State! Please vote mode! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the first reading and the day of the Saeima sitting for the second, final reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U46	If there are no objections to Members, please vote in second final reading immediately without re-examination...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U47	So, Members, do you have reservations about the fact that this draft law is being examined in the second, final, reading of this parliamentary sitting? Now... So you have the opportunity to apply. No, Members have not applied. Tablo shows the previous application. Please call me! We will vote for support for the second, final reading of the draft law on the agreement between the Republic of Latvia and the European Organisation for Nuclear Research (CERN) on the granting of the status of CERN Associated Member State! Please vote mode! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. The first reading of the draft law on the accession of the Republic of Latvia to the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Nuclear Research Organisation. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Linda Medne. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U48	Thank you. This draft law is related to the previous one. The aim of the draft law on the accession of the Republic of Latvia to the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Organisation for Nuclear Research is to accede to the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Organisation for Nuclear Research in order to ensure the entry into force of the Agreement between the Republic of Latvia and the European Organisation for Nuclear Research (CERN) on the Status of a Member State associated with the CERN and the acquisition of the status of an Associated Member State. acquisition of the status of a Member State. Request for a vote on the urgency of Members
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U49	Members have not applied to speak about urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on the accession of the Republic of Latvia to the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Organisation for Nuclear Research! Please vote mode! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U50	Request for a vote on the first reading by Members
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U51	Members have not applied for the first reading in the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law on the accession of the Republic of Latvia to the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Nuclear Research Organisation at first reading! Please vote mode! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals for second reading and the date for the session of the Saeima in the second, final and final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U52	Like the previous bill... request that Members, in the absence of objections, be heard and put to the vote at second, final, reading without re-examination...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U53	So do Members have reservations that the draft laws are being examined in the second, final, reading without a deadline for the submission of proposals and re-examination by the committee responsible? Members shall not object. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law on the accession of the Republic of Latvia to the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Nuclear Research Organisation at second, final reading! Please vote mode! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. The next section of the Saeima meeting - "Presidium reports". On own-initiative proposals submitted. The Foreign Affairs Commission has submitted its own proposal for a draft decision on the illegal landing of an FR4978 aircraft in Minsk, the capital of Belarus. If a Member objects to the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this sitting, please apply. Gobzem... So Member Gobzem has applied to object. Please! Mr Gobzem, we see you, but we can't hear you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U54	Do you hear me now?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U55	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U56	I object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U57	Thank you. Consequently, Member Gobzem has opposed the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this parliamentary sitting. We must therefore decide on the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the next Saeima sitting. One Member may speak 'for', one may speak 'no', to put the draft decision on the agenda of the next sitting. Mr. Cole, are you going to talk about it?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U58	Yeah, I'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U59	Name to Member Rihard Cole. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U60	Colleagues, I won't hesitate too much time. So, an own-initiative proposal... There are no individual Members; it is a draft communication by the Saeima, driven by the Foreign Affairs Commission. I therefore call on my colleagues to support the inclusion at the next Saeima sitting, and unequivocally the Foreign Affairs Commission will appeal to the Saeima Bureau to convene a further extraordinary meeting today so that the appropriate draft Saeima statement can be seen in the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U61	Thank you. ‘ Against” Member Aldis Gobzems applied. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U62	Hello, society as a whole! I want to explain why I am opposed to such statements for all Belarus, Russia and everything else. I think that we in Latvian society, the people of Latvia, need to understand that we are always used as a lap-dog. Latvia does not have to resolve, and Latvia cannot solve the desire of both Russian and Belarusian people for political change in these countries. All these statements, expressed by Latvian politicians, have in the long term led to the situation that we, as the people of Latvia, as the state of Latvia, have not benefited from it. ( A sound defect.) ... accurate. We are (A sound defect.) ... full ports are located in Klaipeda, not in Latvia. It is precisely thanks to this action by politicians that transit has ended for us. Thanks to this action by politicians. I think we need to wait for those who are able to decide the fate of other countries and other peoples - so that they also decide. We must honestly say that Latvia is not the country that can do this. Our jump forward... Like spunds for all holes... Nothing good has ever led to. Yes, I agree that for some it makes some sort of political internal ratings, but we, as a country, do not benefit from it. So we must always look at what we get as a state and what every single citizen gets. Here I want all those people who also romantic positions on one side or on the other side... in our society, there are also two parts: some like Lukashenko's regime, others do not like... But I would like to ask a question. How often has another nation come to terms with our interests? For our interests - the state of Latvia -... and ran first rows. How much have we gained from this economically? Has the Belarusian opposition promised us full ports this day? Is that a promise? I haven't heard it. Foreign policy is also, I'm sorry, not just romance, where you have to express yourself after sitting in a hockey game... Because it is quite clear that what has been carried out by Rinkēvičs with his flag, that's a misconception with his flag, just because he was sitting in the log after his party had made a decision that people should not visit the hockey, that it is very dangerous. We can count on Latvia's losses from this action. I am calling for this to be done honestly, and I am not saying that I like or do not like any regime, I am calling finally the politicians of Latvia, just like the Finns, Swedes, Germans, French and other countries, with their personal self-esteem and their personal, national, interests, to start counting what is more advantageous to us as a country - empty ports and a full port in Klaipeda or something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2258-U63	One Member has spoken 'for', one spoke 'no'. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision on the illegal landing of the FR4978 aircraft in Minsk, the capital of Belarus, on the agenda of the next Saeima meeting! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, this draft decision is on the agenda of the next sitting of the Saeima. Dear Members, Honourable Members! Consequently, we have examined the agenda of the second remote emergency session of the Saeima on 27 May 2021. Before registering participants, I would like to inform you of our future work today. The Colonel is approaching 12.30 when both the Saeima Presidium and the Fraces Council together have been convened on a break, as well as several commissions have planned their work. So we're going to break a little faster. We will be back at 13:30, we will continue to discuss the agenda of the first remote emergency session on 27 May. I also invite you to follow the information received in text messages and e-mails from the Saeima Presidium on the other sittings of the Saeima convened today. Registration of participants. It's been a success. I'm closing the sitting. See you!
