ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! Let us begin the remote emergency sitting on 31 May this year. The agenda shall consist of the transmission of draft laws to the commissions and the first reading. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Administrative Territories and Populations" presented by the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission be referred to the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Jānis Tutins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U2	Hello, colleagues! On Friday, May 28, a judgment of the Constitutional Court was published in the case No. 2020-43-0106 in which one of the contested norms applies to the addition of Murmastiene parish, Varakļānu parish and Varakļānu city to Rēzekne municipality. Almost at the same time as the judgment by which the Constitutional Court declared that the relevant norm was incompatible with the Satversme, the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Arturs Toms Plēšs, informed the media that amendments to the Law on Administrative Areas and Accommodations were prepared and the draft law “Law on Elections of Madona Municipality Council and Rezekne Municipality Council”. Already today, 31 May, they will be dealt with in the Saeima as a matter of urgency. It is obvious that the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which was presented to the public, including members of the opposition to the Saeima, on 28 May, was known in advance to other members of the Saeima and representatives of the coalition in power. The Constitutional Court has special powers and special status. This obliges it to be absolutely objective, both in its judgment and in the way in which it is communicated to the public. We believe that there are reasonable doubts in this case as to whether this principle has been respected. If the ruling coalition has received special access to information compared to the rest of the company, can we be absolutely certain that such an attitude is not included in the judgment itself? Has the Constitutional Court not taken a stand on this issue on the part of the initiators of hasty and unconsidered administrative territorial reform? Members of the Saskaņa political party indicate that the way in which the ruling coalition wishes to address issues related to the judgment of the Constitutional Court creates a number of violations of other principles of democracy and equality. We note that on 31 May, when the ruling coalition plans to distribute the draft law on municipal elections to members of the Saeima in Madona district and Rezekne district, these elections have already begun, according to the wording of the current municipal council electoral law - today voters have the right to use the possibility of previous votes. The planned electoral process in Rezekne and Madona also violates the principle of equality: the term of office of elected municipal members will be shorter than the four years stipulated in the law. What are the legal consequences? Is such a decision not to be regarded as disproportionate and discriminatory? We believe that the municipal elections on 5 June this year must take place in accordance with the current law - currently within the boundaries of the municipalities laid down by the law. All subsequent amendments to the law must be prepared in a balanced manner, without any histological haste and already contained contradictions. The relevant changes should take effect at the time of the next municipal elections, but only in line with the principle of legitimate expectations. We believe that the inalienable right of society is to know and to contribute to the resolution of issues that are relevant to it. In the “swinging” of Varakļāni district (footsteps) between Rezekne and Madona, between Latgale and Vidzeme, and in other similar, controversial cases, there is no serious knowledge and consideration of the opinion of the residents themselves. Members of the Saeima Group who have been elected from Latgale indicate that their constituents have not given a mandate in this way to decide on an issue that is important to them, which is very emotionally affecting the sense of identity and belonging of Latgale. It is an artificial attempt to oppose the establishment of Latgale and the rest of Latvia. All the Members of the Group are completely solidarity-building. We believe that the sovereign of power in Latvia is a nation, and we have a mandate to do so. We acknowledge that the judgment of the Constitutional Court is final and is not subject to appeal, but nothing can force us to vote contrary to the mandate given by our constituents. The political group of the Saeima states that it will not support the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Administrative Territories and Residents” and the draft law “Law on Elections of Madona Municipality Council and Rezekne Municipality Council”. I call on you to do so, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U3	Mrs Papules, will you talk about passing the draft law on to the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U4	Good morning, honourable Chairman of the Saeima and colleagues! There is no doubt that I will talk about passing the draft law on to the Commission, both because I have been elected from Vidzeme region, and because, as colleagues have already mentioned, the administrative territorial reform was adopted by a truly dubious... as well as politically... in the form. And these errors will probably have to be corrected by the Constitutional Court not only once. I do not want to question the decisions of the Constitutional Court, but rather share the idea that regional reform is not really well prepared this time, if we are talking about the way political decisions are made, because it is not yet known what other decisions of the Constitutional Court will be and how many proceedings will be. During the vote there will be a need to change... I join in saying that it is not really reasonable - in the 21st century, when Latvia has already regained its independence, to change... and play with the result of the vote. Even though the elections are now... on the issue of the relative transfer of Vidzeme and Latgale territory to one side or the other... will be dealt with in September, I have a question, honourable members of the coalition, how many times people... changing the declaration or buying property... will be able to participate in municipal elections? We know that this was done in Riga. We know now too... in the case of 5 June... several people change... and participate in municipal elections using their legal rights. Does this mean that there will be a number of areas where we will also be able to vote three times? That's a serious thing. A serious question to you, members of the coalition - as you have created, you have prepared an administrative territorial reform, where people can also to some extent not believe that if I vote in my municipality on 5 June... It is not said that this vote will be final and, to a certain extent, legal, because it is possible that the Constitutional Court will change something. I remind you that I am calling on you to vote in favour of this draft law because... The discussions were also different among the population, and the wishes were different. And only the voters themselves at this point... already on hold... The vote of September will show what they have actually thought. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, or writing messages... Let me remind you that I voted in favour of Vidzeme... I repeat - "for" Vidzeme territory - an ancient territory... But it is not a story; it is a story of how decisions have been and are still being made in the context of chaos (the issue under consideration is one of the proof of chaos). People are, however, a bit of hostages, and this - although the decision of the Constitutional Court - only increases distrust and distrust for us ourselves. I remind you that I am calling for a vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U5	Colleagues, let's vote on the draft law to the commission responsible. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Administrative Territories and Populations” to the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! No, 67, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. So let's look at it at first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Territorial Reform, Member Juris Puce.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U6	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. High honourable Members! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. On 28 May 2021, the Constitutional Court adopted a judgment in the joined case No. 2020-43-0106. In general, this judgment, I must say, has been favourable to the Law on Administrative Territories and settlements. As regards Garkalne parish, Vangažu city and Inčukalns parish, it is recognised that the Saeima has decided in accordance with the European Charter of Local Authorities and the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. On the other hand, Varakļānu city, Varakļānu parish and Murmastiene parish have been recognised that the Saeima has respected the European Charter of Local Authorities and the consultation process... with local communities, but it is indicated that the Saeima has violated Articles 1 and 101 of the Satversme by taking its decision to add the three mentioned administrative territory to Rezekne municipality. According to the annexes to the existing law until Friday, the relevant administrative units were divided in Rēzekne municipality, but with the judgement of the Constitutional Court... with its entry into force (of course it came into force on Friday, 28 May), the Murmastienes parish, Varakļānu parish and Varakļānu city are not part of any administrative territory. The judgment of the Constitutional Court contains long and detailed arguments why it was necessary to adopt this decision on the non-inclusion of Murmastienes parish, Varakļānu parish and Varakļānu city in the territory of Rēzekne municipality. The main argument was that it would have been right to make a decision according to the Saeima, looking at the Law of the Administrative Territory and of the settlements... it was examined at first reading... I mean, in Madona... For this reason, the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Administrative Territories and Populations” has been prepared. The law has been amended accordingly to include the relevant units - the city of Varakļāni, the municipality of Varakļānu and the municipality of Murmastiene - in the territory of the municipality of Madona. A moment ago, when speaking about the transfer of this draft law to the commission, one of the Members pointed out that there were doubts about whether this draft law was prepared because the judgment of the Constitutional Court was known earlier. I will remind you that the debate on the past (not to be heard) ... court judgments, both within the Commission and at the Saeima sitting, were indicated - will there be no further changes, should we not prepare for this? And our committee, the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission, decided to in fact ask the responsible ministry to prepare potential changes if one or the other amendments were to be adopted in connection with the decision of the Constitutional Court. At the beginning of May of this year, the President of the Constitutional Court informed in his public address that it would be 28 May that there would be a judgment in this joint case. And, of course, the responsible ministry prepared the potential... draft laws for any possible outcome of a court in the context of specific claims. So it's not surprising that the bill... Proposal... This was, of course, agreed in the preparation process with the Legal Office of the Saeima. Representatives from the existing district of Varakļāni, the district of Madona and the municipality of Rēzekne were also invited to the meeting of the committee responsible. Everyone had the opportunity to speak and... long and wide-ranging discussions. On Friday evening, the commission responsible supported the registration of this draft law (Not clear.) and supported this draft legislation for first reading. The Commission also supported the urgent nature of the draft law. I ask the Saeima to support the appointment of urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U7	Colleagues, so let us vote in favour of declaring the draft law urgent. Does one of the Members want to talk about the urgent recognition of the draft law? Mr. Teirumnieks, will you talk about it or 'no'?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U8	The urgency of the case.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U9	So "no" to the draft law - Member Edmunds Teirumnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U10	Hello, colleagues! This morning, a sub-committee of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs in Latgale has already taken place, and that is where this issue - the issue of amendments - has been looked at... and, in essence, the decision of the Constitutional Court, which, at the moment, could say so, is not favourable to... directly to the Law on Administrative Territories and Settlements. And those accents that were brought before the court, actually taking these cultural and historical aspects into account - they should not be taken into account, or even... let us say so, are not the decisive ones. In the sub- commission, we also talked about the socio-economic moment, however... very much and significantly discussed in both the second and the... either, in fact maybe less in second but third reading definitely, but not really taken into account, is not incorporated. Similarly, when we look at the granting of urgency, this is, in our view, an issue that still needs to be assessed in a dictatorial and legitimate manner. And also on the submission of proposals... It would be by nature hasty... moment. That is why, at the moment, the commissions, that is, the sub-committees, on behalf of - and also on their own! - I ask you not to establish urgency for this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U11	Juris Pūce, Member of the Parliament, will speak about the draft law as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U12	Dear colleagues, However, I call for support for the urgent introduction of this draft law. There is an objective basis for this. Indeed, once there are objective grounds for establishing urgency for the draft law, then this is the case. On 28 May, when adopting the judgment of the Constitutional Court, it gained the force of the law, and the legal direct consequences of the judgment of the Constitutional Court are now such that with July 1, this year the city of Varakļānu, the parish and Murmastiene parish are not included in any administrative territory and the residents of these territories... after 1 July this year, they will be denied the right to the municipality, so they will also be denied the right to receive any municipal service, because according to the law the municipality provides its services only to the residents living in the territory of the municipality. In such circumstances, the delay in taking a decision would be completely contrary to the interests of the population of the local population concerned. Moreover, in addition to this aspect, it should also be taken into account that so far the municipal elections have been held in the territory of Rēzekne municipality as it was established before 28 May of this year, i.e. before the judgment of the Constitutional Court. Thus, the possibility for people to declare themselves as voters and declare themselves as candidates was also taken into account, according to the information on the situation recorded in the electoral register before 28 May. At the moment, it is not actually possible to ensure any... Let's say, a easy, quick "divorce" for those citizens who have made redeclarations to vote in the Rēzekne Municipality Council elections, who have done so because they own, for example, property in Varakļānu parish or Murmastiene parish or in Varakļānu city. In such circumstances, it is practically impossible to conduct elections without, at the same time, deciding where the city, parish and Murmastieni of Varakļāni will then be included in the new territorial breakdown. In fact, it is also not possible to identify what could then be an administrative territorial division that would be in the interests of citizens. Without any urgency, we actually state that this draft law is unlikely to be adopted by 1 July. We have a limited number of sittings of the Saeima in which it can be considered at all, and this is likely to require a wider discussion outside the scope of the judgment of the Constitutional Court, and it will not be possible to resolve this objective legal problem. I very much call for support for urgency. In my opinion, it is in the interests of the people of Latvia, it is in the interests of the people of Varaklani, it is in the interests of the people of Rēzekne district, and it would be wrong for members of the Saeima to deal with a certain legal obstruction in such a situation, in fact because it is unacceptable politically... One circumstances of the judgment of the Constitutional Court are unacceptable, therefore, to ignore the interests of citizens in such circumstances. Please support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U13	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Administrative Areas and Residents”! Please, let's vote! -63, against -2, refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent. Let us look at the draft law at first reading. Member Juris Puce, on behalf of the commission responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U14	Please support the draft law at first reading. And thank you for your urgent support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U15	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edmund Teirumonis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U16	That's... I'm sorry, I'm left of the previous one, but okay... in any case, speaking perhaps purely about this bill. In fact, what has been said, and quite often, that the Varakļānu region has been with the opinion of its citizens, that the survey has been carried out and has been taken into account almost or not, so to say, the results of the majority vote, even though in reality, if we look at it from this vote or from the poll, it has been organised by the municipality itself, which in the end shows only that we can say, by its very nature, that if we are entrusted with something, we ourselves are trying to achieve it, then we are working on it. In the end, I believe, as well as many of the colleagues we have spoken to in the Varaklani and in the adjoining areas, that has not been so clear at all. And why were the results not taken into account in other municipalities that exported their surveys, but its privilege was granted only to Varakļāni municipality? What concerns the socio-economic situation. As I have said before, I would like to emphasise here too that it is not so clear that major producers, if they could say so, whether farmers want to be in Madona as a territorial unit. In fact, the situation is very, very much in favour of Rezekne, in the direction of Rezekne, but also from the perspective of development scenarios, the special economic zone of Latgale has already shown and shows that there are opportunities for growth, development and, in the end, a much greater contribution to attracting new investments can be made directly by a special economic zone, which is not necessarily a minor factor for regional development. As we know before, it was mentioned if we were looking at the previous review of the Law on Administrative Areas and Populations. We have talked about this, but at the moment, in spite of these socio-economic factors, it must be understood that the territory, which is located as a region on another axis, if we also look at the road area, is actually the road that is much closer at the moment, if we look from Rezekne as an administrative centre in which the municipality of Rezekne is located, to be reached faster in terms of both km and quality. At the moment, if we look at the Madona side, it is actually clear from the quality of the road and the reachability of the road - that is not the closest one and, I must say, from the point of view of the other axis. If we look from the point of view of tourism development, in fact Varakļānu novads has always been the territory of Latgale, if this could be said to be owned, binding, and tourists who travel to Varakļāna are always associated with Latgale. Also, the tourism development scenario of Rezekne Municipality could help the two municipalities to work in the same direction and thus attract additional resources when this Covid-19 pandemic is over or will decrease. If we look from an educational development perspective, which is not necessarily the most important, even the decisive factor for territorial development and the attractiveness of the population, the county of Rēzekne is the most dominant. If we look at higher education institutions, it is the Academy of Technologies of Rezekne, as well as the branches located in Rezekne. If we look at Madona County, then there are several university branches in Madona, but there are no independent higher education institutions. Also Rezekne techniques, art school and so on. In fact, here we see a whole set of institutions that can help create innovation, maintain innovation and ultimately also through the Rezekne Business Incubator, let us say, these new companies that are emerging or are likely to arise, also give their support. Go on. If we also look at aspects of the current situation, which has, by their very nature, also taken place in Varaklani this year. Varakļānu novads, however we also say that the heart is Latgalian, and in the end the Latgalian flag is ready to be carried, in reality the last year is 2020. - demonstrated that the events organized by municipalities have, by their very nature, excluded everything related to the Latgalian. We have not heard songs in Latgale or now, to say so, the promotion of the development of this language. It only points out that if we have one law in which we anticipate this territory, let us say it in Vidzeme, while the law of the historical lands of Latvia is the one that speaks about cultural development, language care, then here we see that the municipality has already created a precedent with its activities, that, as far as we speak in favour of this territory as a legislator, with the idea that we strengthen our cultural history, the work of the first year (after the third reading in the Law of Administrative Territories and settlements) has shown that this municipality is inclined to operate contrary to what the President of Latvia wanted and has insisted on in the Law of the Historical lands of Latvia. Therefore, from this current and potential analysis, let us say, loss-benefit analyses, it must be made clear that, not even in relation to cultural history, but specifically to the socio-economics, we need to think very carefully whether Madonas region will really be able to give as much to the development of the existing Varaklani municipality as the combined Rēzekne region with Varaklani municipality if we see it as an inclusive region in Rēzekne. So, my colleagues, in this case, I do not support the addition of Varakļānu to the district of Madona and I ask you not to support this draft law at first reading either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U17	Name of Member Janina Kursīte–Pakulė.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U18	President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, In Soviet times, Latgale part went to the Russian Federation, and in years of independence we were unable to prevent it. One loss. In Soviet times, the legal part of Latgale was added to Madona municipality. Second loss. During the administrative reform, we tried to prevent it by voting in favour of the reconnection of the Varakļāni district with the Rēzekne district. The Constitutional Court challenges the vote of the Saeima, referring also to the survey of the population. But why are population surveys taken into account only in this case? The Constitutional Court refers to the absence of a development centre. The question is, is it not just Varaklani municipality that has a centre of development? Where is the problem? There should be neither emotional arguments nor cultural history. When Latgale decided to become part of Latvia, were socio-economic or yet emotional and cultural considerations dominated? The answer is that it was emotional and cultural considerations that prevailed. No one in 1917 argued against... and Latgale became a legal component of Latvia. It turns out that there are some arguments at the entrance to the house, letting out other arguments; or when you get to the house, there is a sudden change of arguments. The Senate of the Supreme Court, by the way, in 2011 “smart” (I put the word “smart” in traces) decided that Latgalian language is a foreign language. Somehow it was swallowed. Now the next step. Interesting, what would the Vidzemeians and the Constitutional Court say if I voted for the inclusion of some part of Vidzeme in one of Latgale regions? I believe that economic considerations must not be distracted from cultural history. The injustice of the Soviets towards Latgale is reparable. Varakļānu novads is Latgale. Historically owned by Rezekne County and should be there. All three stars are equally important to Latvia. I hope so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U19	Name to Member Juris Rancan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U20	Good morning, colleagues! Today we are talking about this draft law in accordance with, I would say, the shocking judgment of the Constitutional Court, according to which we are currently experiencing such an interesting situation that the addition of Varaklani of Latgale Municipality to Latgale turns out to be incompatible with the Satversme. You listen to this sentence, and perhaps everyone can think of how logical it is. But what would I say? We're being accused here, and I'm being accused of emotionality, among other things. You know, colleagues, I would like to say that the foundation of the Latvian state was based on emotions. Adding Latvian municipalities, including Latgale municipality, to Latvia and merging – this was an emotion. It was this cultural historical aspect that was the basis of the groundwork, and I believe that we must follow it. The socio-economic situation can then be corrected by rational arguments, but this is the national basis. Latgale is not a social construction, Latvia is not a social construction. When people say that Latvia is in the heart, they understand it literally, because it is a feeling, it is an emotion and it is a feeling. At this point, the Constitutional Court, mixing these cultural and rational arguments together, did not take into account the emotions that this creates in one region or another, and here Janina has just rightly mentioned to us that, if it were the other way round - Vidzeme municipality would be put in Latgale - then we would have no less emotions than it is for recognition that Varakļāni, not being in Latgale and including them back in Latgale would not be in the Constitution. Colleagues, Latvia's statehood was based on emotions, and still for us Latvia is in the heart, for us Latgale is in the heart. And it is very difficult to explain to the Latgalians, ordinary people and all people who live there and for whom Latgale is in the heart, to put these legal penters and socio-economic or other arguments in front of the sense of belonging and putting this emotion aside and prioritising somewhere in fourth, fifth, sixth place. That's not working. And that's why there's these huge emotions. I'm being accused of being too harsh. I agree that sometimes communication (which I have also noticed in politics) results in a rather offensive emotion, but even if I put someone on, I would like to emphasise... Even if this is the case, I want to say that I do not hate anyone, I want to say that if I criticise you, it does not mean that I am your enemy. No way. I have also said this in my commission; we have ever been shouted. If any of the judges of the Constitutional Court have not received their education in the days of the Communist flower, has not been a co-organizer, has not passed the exam in “scientific” (foot) communism, I am sorry – yes, it was harsh, yes. But continuing specifically on this whole situation. We hear from some colleagues that the constitutional court... that its judgments must not be criticised, must not be discussed or may be a little... I'm sorry, colleagues, we went away 30 years ago from a system in which a party's or institutional line should have believed blindly. I remember there was even in the direct text that you can't doubt, and if you doubt, then you're a bad man and you don't go into the system, and then you need to be repressed. Colleagues, we can say that we have a historical period of time when we have just been out, and we already want to be back there. I call on you to discuss these judgments of the Constitutional Court more and more qualitatively and not to fear, especially those Members affected because it is a very bad Member who does not defend his region and the area from which he is elected. Colleagues, we have to work for Latvia, so we are also meant to decide in the Saeima in joint discussions, in joint debate on our common development of Latvia and on all these issues. It is therefore absolutely normal and desirable and, I would say, an absolute duty for every Member to defend its own district. As for these specific things, let us argue. It's like a legal story here. There is a Satversme, there is Article 3, which is not addressed in the judgment of the Constitutional Court, there is written: Latvia's territory consists of Latgale, Vidzeme, Kurzeme, Zemgale. This Article of the Satversme has not been amended since the restoration of independence. What, then, do we understand with these regions? What do we understand with Latgale? Whether we understand the situation that was changed during the period of occupation, or whether we understand it the period of renewed Latvia and the Latgale that was then. I do not see here in the Constitution, in this Article 3, that it would be written there - you know, if the socio-economic situation or other considerations require it, then part of Latgale regions could be placed in administration of Vidzeme municipality. Well, it is not written in the constitution or in the Constitution, but if we agree that this is the argument or argument that we may do so, then it really has to be... There must be amendments to the Constitution, where all representatives, democratically elected, such a matter has been resolved, and there would be no more emotions or disputes about this. What I read when I read this judgment... Well, colleagues, let's think about the question yet... Please, the discussion... and critical thinking may still be turned on. So as if this is our decision to add Varaklans to Latgale, Rēzekne Municipality... It is as if contrary to Article 1 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia, which states that Latvia is an independent, democratic republic. This is contrary to democracy. In what way - after that it is so drawn behind the hair that it is even difficult to comment - through principles, through interpretations, through everything. And in the end - does not correspond to democracy. It does not really correspond to democracy when people elected from a particular area address these issues? It's not democratic? I'm sorry. The next one, which, however, attracts attention most and is even more inconsistency, is that the Constitutional Court states that this decision of the Saeima does not comply with Article 101 of the Satversme, which refers to the right of residents of municipalities to participate in the work of municipalities. I'm sorry, colleagues, how would the right of the Varakļāni people to participate in the work of municipalities be limited, deprived or offended if they were to implement them in Rēzekne district? That's not explained, colleagues. On the one hand, in this judgment, the Constitutional Court says that questionnaires can be taken into account here, cannot be taken into account here. And in this case, since this survey has not been taken into account, there is a conflict with this article. Indeed, colleagues, is that normal? I even want to ask lawyers: experts in constitutional law, indeed, this judgment is appropriate? Yeah, you say... Some say to me, you're very emotional. Yeah, maybe, but we're talking about these arguments. Does it really not - that it has not been heard? And very rightly, here, too, other colleagues point out: then, in the case of the Ischule, there is no conflict with Article 101 of the Satversme. I call for criticism and, of course, I will call for the adoption of this draft law at first reading, so that the proposals can then be able to remedy this situation accordingly. These are very important things, and I would say that this cultural-historical... and this identity and belonging, these emotions and feelings are at the heart of everything. For good reason we are going to monuments in important days for Latvia. It is not a rational operation; it cannot be justified by rational arguments. For good reason, we celebrate Latgale Congress Day. Nor is it rational. It's an emotion. It's in our hearts. That is what I want to stress. We from this setting - Latgale is Latgale, Kurzeme is Kurzeme, Vidzeme is Vidzeme, Zemgale is Zemgale - from this setting we can further address all other issues. First there is spiritual, and then there is material. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U21	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, particularly coalition politicians! Well, honestly, does such an artificial boundary set something on the road sign? It's just a sign of the road, you'll walk past and you'll see some inscriptions... If you remember what the objective of the regional reform was, it does not seem to be cultural... historical aspects are very intertwined. Basically (especially the Ministry responsible) talked about economic development, our demographics and the development of this type of Latvian state. Where are your passionate speeches about the bill given by the President of our country? There will be limits. They're gonna make road signs, too? And you are going to set up border points, where you will have to present documents to cross borders also within Latvia? However, sharing people into groups is very, very, very, very dangerous, in my opinion, including politicians. Speaking of the arguments that have been heard in these discussions. I very much respect Mr. Teirumnieks, and yet... if we are talking about education. Higher education and vocational education seem to be in common visibility of Latvian policy. This means that it is not created (at least so far) on a regional basis, where it is still on a regional basis. Thus, higher education institutions or vocational education institutions available in Latgale region are likely to take children for certain interests, according to certain indicators of success, according to other criteria, because so far (if you do not, of course, introduce you) access to education at the higher education institution and vocational education was not indicated after the place of residence. There has not been such an approach so far. I hope you won't introduce this. At the same time, it is possible that Madona will have much more opportunities to support and develop Barcou. There will be a lot more opportunities for Vidzeme to develop the Hand. Cooperation will be something that will probably be decided on at present by new municipal leaders, those elected on 5 June, and those elected on September or perhaps on another other date, because we do not know other decisions of the Constitutional Court on issues of regional reform. Perhaps it will change something else. Thus, it is likely that arguments about access to education, at least so far (if any of you do not intend to change a new criterion), are not related to the place of residence, where there is still localisation. Secondly. You think you write in the form of road signs if you don't set up a certain transition point... conditions that we will be able to drive somewhere or not to drive somewhere inside Latvia... It is unlikely that tourism will be affected. Now we can still travel freely, at least by our own country, including under the community conditions. We haven't had restrictions so far on how to overcome... or otherwise to participate in and view our land, which is a common land, of course, can consist of different cultural and historical areas, and it is our wealth, but it has never restricted or divided our own right to be in one country in its common country - Latvia. You, members of the coalition, now have one law tabled by the President of Latvia, and there has not been a detailed discussion in this regard. You seem to have decided to adopt this law, like regional reforms... territorial reform law - quickly five people, without independent Members... But five people... or a political group to be appointed by the vote of a person. Remember how you passed this law? What was the debate? Only opposition. You have not even noticed to answer several questions or discussions, you have ignored the views of others. And now the opinion of the Constitutional Court - another - cannot be ignored, at least according to existing laws, still existing laws in Latvia. Do not give God if you choose to change it, and then really - it will not be the previous ideology, but even more ancient ideology, the post-war ideology that we know as Stalin in time with a certain cage policy. Don't give it to God! I would never want to experience it! And I would not wish it to anyone - neither to my children, to my grandchildren, nor to anyone else's children, and to my grandchildren, and to men. You want to do it right now, because if there's a decision that doesn't like the ruling coalition, then you're arguing about it. Again. I very much look forward to discussions on the draft law presented by the President of Latvia, but I do not very much expect new border posts and really do not want to put on any other special border points where someone may or may not... Let's go. And to a lesser extent I want such boundaries to be drawn between people. In our families... Our ancestors have come from various areas, including Latvia. Please do not draw boundaries between the foreigners and the Latgalians, no matter what is in our heart - our heart is united in Latvia. Do not draw borders, and I hope you will not build border points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U23	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U24	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, First of all, I would like to appeal to those Members of the coalition who are showing a great deal of indignation, emotion and all kinds of other feelings at the moment. I would like to remind you that you have already voted in favour of this draft law, the draft law on administrative territorial reform, in all readings. Among other things, the very important and important details that have led us to this situation today. Including the criteria that were, by nature, taken out of the bill, and they remained only in an annotation, and so you supported the model developed by the government and in different ways... But I think it's the fault we're here today that we have to look in the mirror to a great extent, and you'll see why we're here today. If we look at this situation in Varaklan, Madona, Rēzekne district in general, I would like to say that this was the very, very rare exception at the time of the whole draft law, that the European Charter of Local Authorities was, in essence, respected and the question of how it should be, how it creates new territories. There was some set of criteria that meant that, in principle, Varakļānu novads could no longer exist as such. But there was an opportunity for the people to speak, the people had a legitimate poll in which they took part. Most importantly, the results of this survey were also taken into account, unlike in other places where, unfortunately, there was no such possibility. It would be difficult for me to give one more example today, where the opinion of the citizens would be heard and taken into account. Such an example was - it was Skulte, where we see that the Constitutional Court also added back to this municipality... the novads of Limbažu, In my opinion, in this way - that we listen to the opinion of the people and make reform with the citizens - would be the best way. Of course, I will remind you of one conversation that was in the presence of the Commission for Responsible Reform... in negotiations with the President of Latvia, where the President of Latvia, in a way, also this Varaklani issue, perhaps not directly, but... said in relation to... on what should be the starting point for the reform. And the reform should start with such a big vision of where there is Latgale, Vidzeme, Kurzeme, Zemgale. This was to start, but unfortunately it was not. And this is already a reproach for these same members of the coalition. Why did you go such a way that this first step was not played, immediately started with the mapping of a very, very poor quality without listening to the people. I think if we had taken the right steps, the right way to listen... In cooperation with citizens, this reform would be much, much better. It would really be a development-oriented one and it would not be faced with public opposition. If we look at this option - whether there were or not - I can mention - it is not the only one. For example, the issue discussed in the same judgment - Wangaži and Garkalne, who were ready to go together, and then, after the reform adopted, when the two were mixed together in different ways, let us say so... Will it be better for citizens? Is it better that the Saeima showed a final position against the views of these regions, and created the Rozhai Municipality, where now everyone will have joy and happiness? Is it right to swim against the stream? I think not, and there will be a number of examples for us where we will see the embarrassment that has been integrated into the reform. The same example where the population... the municipalities came with their vision of how to unite, but it was not respected, was not taken into account... Another striking example is Iecava, Baldone, Elders, where there were presidents of all thought... and it also meets the criteria that the same government had developed, meets these criteria and would be able to establish compatible regions. No, it was not respected. And it was the members of the coalition who did not listen to them at all that they did not respect these decisions. The problems that come out now... they will be more and more already. The major problems will start when the new regions start working and understand how difficult it is to reconcile the interests of the Tucums and Candlers with each other. Today I am absolutely sure that there will be structures that will be absolutely autonomous, and early or late we (or perhaps not during this Saeima, but during the next Saeima) will welcome draft decisions, draft laws to make these regions... and no more than one region divided back... in another configuration. Its reform is now very, very poor quality and people's daily demands, which are not adequate for daily mobility. Let us not talk at all about cultural and historical values. So, colleagues, everything was done right in this case... everything was done correctly - the opinion of the citizens was asked; the decision made by the commission responsible was based on the opinion of the citizens, not on the opinion of people who do not live in those territories. The municipality is about and around people who live in it, about and around their daily issues, about and around their daily problems, challenges, help, for and around their money... and how they carry out their own management of the county. And their opinion is, in my view, the most important thing, not the people who live 100, 200, 300 kilometers from them, and decide how to live better. That is not right. This principle was followed up here: citizens were heard, voted in the right direction. Of course, the Saeima was emotional and otherwise its vision... and, in my opinion, the e-Sayima format could not have had a normal discussion on this subject and it happened, such a current self-governance of the Saeima, and voted as the majority of the Saeima felt right at the moment. In a way, I am pleased that the Constitutional Court has decided in this case to benefit the people of Varakļāni themselves, no matter what the Members who speak about Latgale values want. If you wanted to talk about Latgale unity and Latgale values, you should have talked about the criteria when it was to be talked about and joined Members who were ready to talk about these topics. At the moment, you yourself took everything you can out so that it was the only possible direction for normal development. We see that Saulkrasti novads, Valka novads has been formed, we could create a special Varakļāni municipality, which would be part of Latgale, but you yourself did your best to prevent it from happening. Thus, the only logical solution was that the residents of Varaklani district decided in a legitimate poll on the direction to be taken by them. Of course, if we look at the judgment of the Constitutional Court, it is very specific and, in my view, also in some sense such a game in this case. In these two judgments, if we look at them, the opinions of the opposition Members are not heard, the opinions of the coalition Members are added after the votes of the Saeima... can add to the file... So, in my opinion, this is not the right attitude, and this judgment too, I can only join... I have no understanding why, in this case, the opinion of the citizens about what is right was more important than in the case of Ikšķile municipality. There were also citizens' votes, citizens decided and expressed their views. In addition, colleagues, I think it is right that we support this draft law. In a way, it sort out things according to the situation in which we are today and how the existing regulation would be right. Next... I think this is not the only one and it is definitely not the last time, and, as I said, there will be changes initiated by the municipalities themselves after these municipal elections, when they realise that in practice these municipalities are very different, which has been brutally put together. Many Members have already spoken very personally, so that one speaks... There is a group that is talking about Varaklans; there are also regions, not only Varaklans, where very, very difficult situations have also developed, adopting this administrative territorial reform. Colleagues! I would like to remind you that the elections are already taking place today. Today, municipal elections have started; today people can go and vote. If we look from a legal point of view, although the Central Electoral Commission has acted, they did not, in fact, have a legal basis. The fact that the Constitutional Court decided on amendments to the law... The laws still state that the elections must take place today in Madona and Rezekne. The elections have begun today. In my view, it is very bad that we did not make these amendments as early as January, when we proposed such amendments. They were rejected. We have predicted that there will be such problems, and I think that this is a major mistake that we have made together. These amendments should have been corrected in time to avoid such problems. At the moment it will be an extra cost, it will be an embarrassment for the residents of all these regions, which, let us say, the Saeima has worked. The rapporteur was very generous about the fact that this judgment of the Constitutional Court in some way justifies the actions of the Saeima in certain regions, but we can look at this judgment of the Constitutional Court in different ways, and each in this judgment can see what we consider to be the most important thing. And I also wanted to share what, in my opinion, is the most important thing that the Saeima, in my opinion, obviously ignores, turns out to be deaf. That is why I will also use this debate and I will ask the Constitutional Court if someone follows this debate - at which point will you finally become decisive, and at which point will you decide that this reform as a whole is unconstitutional? Following along, I see that for the second time already, the Constitutional Court has, by nature, raised Damokla sword above the Saeima and above the Law on Administrative Territories and Accommodations. The President of Latvia has also spoken about this very clearly and clearly; the Constitutional Court has already spoken about it for the second time. On the fact that the laws accompanying this reform are the Law of the Historical Lands of Latvia and the Law of the Local Government... In my opinion, the law of the historical states of Latvia will have come to us an empty law with very low real added value, where only unnecessary institutions will be formed, and then the creation of new institutions, which will do something... maybe some funds will be divided, but it is difficult to say what its added value will be from the point of view of such management. But the most important thing is what the Constitutional Court already mentions for the second time about this democratic representation, about the meaning of the municipality, that it has lost as a result of this reform. And that, my fellow Members, I call on you to put the question behind your ear and I ask the Constitutional Court - at what point then... Is that so? I allow that in future rulings of the Constitutional Court there will again be a rebuttal that democratic representation is not provided here and that this reform has lost its substance, because it is quite simply for the citizens of the municipality that the power is closer to the citizens. Now... This power will be very, very distant and there will be a great challenge for the new municipalities to ensure it. The new Municipal Law does not talk about these issues, colleagues. There are no solutions to these issues. And I foresee that, if this continues, the Constitutional Court could repeal the whole of this reform in one of its future decisions. But today, colleagues, I would remind you once again: we have already started the elections today. This situation has arisen and I call for support for this draft law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U25	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U26	Hello, colleagues! What is happening today in the Saeima is nothing more than an attack on democracy. What is happening today in the Saeima makes elections and democracy simply a laughter. And now by score. Point number one. The urgency that you have just voted on. On Friday, when the sitting of the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission of the Saeima was convened, immediately after the decision of the Constitutional Court, I personally propose to convene the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on Sunday. I could also offer Saturday. I propose Sunday, it was a compromise, given that today at 16.00, the previous vote in the municipal elections in 2021 will begin. And how did you vote, honourable colleagues from the ruling coalition? You were against. Today, you are voting hypocritically on the urgency. Why were you “no” on Friday to really rush forward so that the Saeima finally met once on its holiday and decide a decision of importance to the whole country? You didn't do that. Point number two. The quality of administrative territorial reform. What is happening today is the result of this hasty reform, on which we warned many times, why we did not vote for it either. Administratively, the territorial reform was of a poor quality, hasty nature, and the country as a whole must now enjoy its consequences. These consequences are, for the time being, only the first consequence, because when the debate on administrative territorial reform took place, the whole debate was about it - we need or do not need any criteria. Because what are we doing? We take care to increase people's prosperity in order to develop the economy in Latvia. Then some criteria should have been laid down to set out what we wanted to achieve. At the time, the Legal Bureau said no, can do without criteria, because in this case, the Saeima can make political decisions. That is the quality mark of political decisions. The quality mark of your political decisions, the ruling coalition. Point number three. If any of you carefully read the draft law that you just voted on... on the urgency, in order not to be dealt with at first reading by the Commission, you could see one point there. You have just voted to have the municipalities of Madona and Rēzekne lived for at least two months, not with the municipalities legally elected by the population, but with the temporary administration. With the temporary administration, where the VARAM officials will be present. Yes, I will immediately be told - no, no, no, but immediately, to the second reading, we will come forward with a proposal. Again, MoEPRD made proposals! I'll read you right away. Listen carefully to all those who live in the municipalities of Madona and Rezekne. Listen carefully, all Members who await you for at least two months - from 1 July. So VARAM wants the temporary administration to be appointed in the municipality of Madona in the following composition: 1) the head of the temporary administration - the chairman of the Madona municipality council Agris Lungevičs; 2) the member of the temporary administration - the chairman of the Varakļāni municipality council Maris Justs; 3) the member of the temporary administration - the chairman of the Ērgļi municipality council Guntars Velcis, the member of the temporary administration - the chairman of the Cesvaine municipality council Vilnis Špats and the member of the temporary administration - the chairman of the temporary administration - Tālis Salenieks. More interesting about Rēzekne municipality. There will be only two people: the head of the temporary administration - Monvids Švarcs, Chairman of the Rēzekne Municipality Council and the member of the temporary administration - Jekaterina Ivanova, Chairman of the Viļāni Municipality Council. All this would be very nice if there were not another point that the VARAM offers. And VARAM offers the following: that decisions have been taken in the temporary administration of the municipality, if more than half of the members of the temporary administration present voted for it, and they represent at least half of the total population in the territories merged in the newly established district according to the population register as of 1 July 2021. I'm going to translate it into a language that all can understand. This second point means that, if Mr Švarz meets with Mrs Ivanova to manage the areas of Rezekne and the district of Viļāni, then everything that Mr Švarz said will be accepted, because he represents the territory where more than half of the two combined municipalities live. Is that not the laughter of democracy - what you want to offer us? One trial has already happened to us in Riga. Do not forget that if you go this way with the temporary administration, with the fact that the new elections will be held in September, the law will be violated, because the newly elected municipalities in both Madona and Rezekne municipality will be elected for a shorter period than the law requires. You have, of course, tried all this in Riga, proved that the ruling coalition can accept any law at once. It's just a wish. Since the administrative territorial reform is just one story: the administrative territorial reform and all the consequences that we are currently enjoying are a story of taking over power. For taking over power for certain people and for certain parties. Nothing else. We are not going to support these draft laws, as we cannot support the upheaval of power, the violation of democracy, the violations of the law. We cannot support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U27	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U28	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Some colleagues told me earlier that this decision of the Constitutional Court was shocking and not expected, as before. But I think it is necessary to see certain regularities here, because first of all this justification, which is related to that mentioned in the Constitutional Court judgment, does not really cover the very essence. The fact is that it has not been said in fundamental terms that Latvia is formed from these three regions, former gourds, or components of the gourd. And this is also determined by Article 3 of the Satversme; it is not mentioned. But with regard to the Varaclanes, these borders of the then regions are violated and, in fact, all that... all the mistakes or works that were made during the 50-year occupation when the Soviet government was ruling in Latvia - in fact, in the case of Varakļāni, it is said that the Soviet government has acted correctly and has to return to the boundaries of the administrative territory established by the Soviet authorities... relating to the question of Varaklani. I've spoken before... and it has also happened that Latgale had a very unfavourable decision regarding the transfer of the Abrene part to Russia. Neither did the Saeima dare... and the Government did not dare to take such steps when taking the relevant decisions, unless there was a Constitutional Decision that actually allowed, gave the right to decide in relation to Abren to refer this territory to the Russian Federation. Now I have not heard that there has been some payment for this transaction simply transferring the territory. Perhaps, personally, a politician has received it illegally, but Abren's territory has been returned. If we have restored the independent state of Latvia, if we have respected and restored the Constitution of Latvia, the question arises as to why, at the moment when we make administrative territorial laws both in the first case and now, we do not take into account the situation that when the state of Latvia was restored, we saw what administrative division was at the moment when we lost our independence. The draft law on administrative territories and settlements also had to be reviewed, the situation was to be seen at the time when we lost our independence, and when we left it, then new administrative areas - both rural and rural - had to be created, as well as regional boundaries. It's time... initially, when the examination of the Law on Administrative Territories and Residents was initiated, one of my proposals was that administrative regions should be formed in accordance with Article 3 of the Satversme, setting specific administrative boundaries for these regions. Then it would be (A sound break.) ... in which region a municipality is further formed or a municipality is located in that region. And there would simply be no such question about Varaclanes, but - no, that's not what we do... We didn't do it (A sound break.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U29	Dear colleagues, technical problems have arisen. Obviously, we will continue after a break. Mr Pouce, would you have enough time for the debate to break?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U30	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U31	Okay. Then the name to Member Juris Pucem. After the break, Member Andris Kazinovskis will speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U32	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. High honourable Members! Perhaps some consider what the previous speakers have said. We have to say that we have the kind of anecdotes about marriage disputes. Colleagues start... begins their speeches with the new pieces, but ends with old, tested hits, which have been used several times in the previous debate, and seems to be trying to convince someone that they were still up to date. I might... Well, maybe I'll dispel some of the doubts about some things. And, let's say, my colleague Papule... she said on several occasions that maybe... about such full uncertainty we currently have in relation to the judgments of the Constitutional Court, but that is not the case. Currently, the Constitutional Court has decided several cases, several applications: application of Ikšķile Municipality Council, application of Garkalne Municipality Council, application of Inčukalns Municipality Council, application of Limbažu Municipality Council and application of Varakļāni Municipality Council. In fact, there is also a certain system by which we can understand very well what the judgements of the decision-making logic of the Constitutional Court are - they are very detailed, there is a very well described reasoning, and I can only say that this is, of course, a good basis for further work by the Saeima. After these judgments it is absolutely clear that the Constitutional Court has examined in very detail the criteria proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers when presenting the draft law at the Saeima. In fact, they were analysed in the previous judgment - in the context of the Ikšķile Municipality Council's application, and they were found to be justified, rational, consistent with the Constitution, in accordance with the local government principle, the principle of subsidiarity and many others. All of this has been evaluated. From that point of view, we cannot in any way claim what several speakers have said here - that administrative territorial reform has, in some way, been anti-democratic or that it has not been in the interests of the country. On the contrary, it has not been decided by the Constitutional Court. It has decided the opposite. It has said that it is in the interests of the State, and even more - contrary to what several speakers have said - the Constitutional Court has in all its judgments pointed out in fact that the consultation procedure and consultation procedure indicated in the Charter of European Local Authorities have been followed in the course of the discussion of the draft law “Law on Administrative Territories and Localities”, the representatives of local communities have been given the opportunity to participate in the discussion on how to do so, what would then be the optimal administrative division in the country, and the procedure carried out has responded to the Constitution, and the decisions taken through it are not questionable. Yes, the Constitutional Court sets a new threshold for the Saeima to decide such an important issue as the administrative division, saying that in fact... No, they do not say that the only criteria that are valid are those brought by the Cabinet. Not at all. They say: the criteria must be in accordance with Article 1 of the Satversme: they must be rational, reasonable, reasonable, but the Saeima can also raise them itself. At the same time, they should apply equality, and that is the issue of Varaclanes, to which the Constitutional Court repeatedly touches in its judgment. The Saeima could decide that the model of the basic division, the basic principle, is a cultural and historical division... Cultural-historical belonging, but in that case it should be decided on all territories, including the territories, which, for example, have developed in the course of history, merging on both sides of the Daugava or other... other territorial areas. The Saeima did not decide on such a decision. And taking a case-by-case decision differently, well... In fact, the Constitutional Court points out this, it has been some arbitraryness from the Saeima, because this principle is not applied equally. The Constitutional Court also points out that, of course, municipalities are subject to public law and equality guaranteed to individuals by the legislator is not, in fact, mandatory, but good legislative practice, good governance, the rule of law, which is therefore within the scope of Article 1 of the Satversme, demands such action. From that point of view, the democratic system (to which colleague Rancan referred - what then there is a breach of democracy!) - it is also a certain systemality and justification for the work of the legislator, and not just democratically elected co-legislators in meetings decide what they want, without taking into account the need for a common system, the common system of public administration... From that point of view, the judgment of the Constitutional Court marks clearly... Both judgments - both this and the previous one - clearly identify and predict what is the next possible subject of discussion in the context of the administrative territorial division. And it is not the case that we will remove about all its places, on the contrary - in fact we can quite safely predict that absolutely most of the applications will be declared unfounded by the Constitutional Court. Another case is included in the specific draft law, which was actually the result of the discussion on Friday, namely the list of regional and national development centres. It is an attempt during the commission to actually solve the problem if any further judgments could be made in relation to areas which do not have regional or national centres and which do not have an Escrow area. It seems to me that the proposed solution, on which the commission voted by a majority... that it is not optimal to include it in the law. We will have to continue the discussion on this for the second reading, but I also understand the idea of the applicants at that time as to why it was tabled; we must try to find a solution to the identified problem of certain areas that are still under examination - two applications in general. I personally think that we will continue the discussion on this for the second reading. Member Lochmele quoted today an article on the temporary administration. I simply draw attention to what is not in this law - the temporary administration is set up and laid down in the second law that is on the agenda of today's sitting, so that we will probably be able to debate it when we get to that draft law. Thank you. I really call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U33	Thank you, colleagues. We will continue the debate after a break. Another word for a statement to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U34	Dear Members of the Cooperation Group with China. The Cooperation Group's meeting - five minutes from now; the agenda and the link are in your e-mails. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U35	Thank you. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. Interruption until 12 noon. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U36	Dear Members, Honourable Members! We shall continue the examination of the agenda of the remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 31 May 2021 following a break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Administrative Territories and Residents”, first reading. So there is a debate at first reading. The floor will be held for the Member Andris Kazinovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U37	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Dear colleagues, I'm going to keep my story. So I tried to see those arguments and reasons why the Constitutional Court passed such a judgment. To be honest, this judgment can be said to have been drawn behind the hair, because, for example, there is no legal provision for administrative centers - that there must be an administrative centre and therefore, here, for Varakļāns, such a decision. Go on. A survey, a population survey. Firstly, there is no referendum law so far, so a survey... on the survey I have heard various assessments and opinions - that there were "needed" people in the survey, that there were different manipulations... and can it be believed in and trusted in... to this survey. So this argument too, in my opinion, is not serious. As I said, referring to the Articles of the Satversme, in fact, the Constitutional Court objects because Article 3 is not mentioned, therefore there is a contradiction with this Article 3. What do I mean by that? I would like to say that the Constitutional Court often does not make objective decisions, on the contrary, it seems that these decisions are more likely to be led by any political ambitions. Both on Abren and on this point too. I started to think seriously about Alexander Kirstein's words about... in relation to issues related to minorities, where the Constitutional Court has once again provided its interpretation and directs the relevant policy. Do we need this Constitutional Court in general if it is possible to transfer these functions... and which would be implemented by the Supreme Court? In any case, the decision on Varaklani, what was taken by the Saeima, which was voted on by the Members of the Saeima... Members did the right thing in my view. And I would urge these Members to stay with them because of the argument referred to in the Constitutional Court... there is no reason to change Members' decision. I would not, however, like the Constitutional Court to form its policy in Latvia contrary to the decisions of the Saeima, contrary to the Members who have been elected from among the residents and represent these citizens. I call for this draft law to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U38	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U39	Good afternoon, everybody! I would also like to draw attention to some such strangeness in this whole context, which should be at least a reflectional one. One is about the procedure. Colleagues, you will agree that it is as strange as possible. On 28 May the Constitutional Court takes a decision, on 28 May everything is already ready for the Saeima to decide that the Commission has already prepared everything. You, all those who work in the Saeima, you know for yourself how it is... Firstly, how the draft law is being prepared, what the procedure is. How all this is done, how it is implemented, how it is coordinated. You also know the power of the Saeima. In this case, just like with a magic stick, everything is already ready, and at least a feeling that before... Before the Saeima... in general, the Constitutional Court has decided something. I am talking about a procedure that already raises justified questions, as all this has happened, and why with such a burningness. Second. If we look at the substance. They sent us the materials. I don't know how you did, but I could get inside in my Saeima e-mail only today morning, it wasn't possible to work on these materials on a holiday, to see who was sent... I don't know why. But it's probably technical... simply technical problems. But those who have not fallen into touch and are familiar with this Constitutional Decision, which, by the way, was not added... At least in my e-mail it was not attached to the hearing material, just offered us to the blind - see, something the Constitutional Court has decided, you will now decide. I also got acquainted with this decision of the Constitutional Court, with their reasoning, which is mentioned why the Constitutional Court has adopted such a decision, has annulled the decision of the Saeima. There's a couple of interesting things here. Its main arguments. Thus, first of all, concluded (I will quote): “The Constitutional Court first concluded that the legislator did not comply with the objectives and criteria of the reform, because it included in the new municipality of Varakļāni in Rēzekne, where there is no regional and national development centre established in the national development planning documents.” In particular, Rezekne has the status of the state town and is therefore divided out. I have a question. If you apply this principle to the Varakļāni district, to Varakļāni, then why don't you regard the same principle to all the other... other municipalities, other regions, which are also in exactly the same breakdown, where the city is the main one. We have several state cities, not just Rezekne... and not only Varakļāni are those included in Rēzekne municipality. Why, then, is there such a regulation for Varaclanes - such a special exception? If this principle is established by the Constitutional Court... If the Constitutional Court has indeed decided competent and responsible, not politically manipulatable, why has this principle been applied to Varaklans only? I'd like to hear at least. I understand that the Constitutional Court has not provided any explanations, but I would like to hear from the committee responsible an explanation of this why this principle is important and significant in relation to Varaclanes and, therefore, it is decided that no, it should not be done, but why does it not work in relation to other regions? So, Mr Pouce, I am waiting from you or from your commission, which has already led and prepared the bill for you. I think that is a matter of principle. The second principle case, which is discussed by the Constitutional Court in its decision, is about the sense of belonging of the population, the common identity and the fact that the results of the survey of the residents of Varakļāni Municipality confirmed the support of the residents of the municipality to be added to the region of Madona. Then I have a question. What's this about a survey, because we... Is that so? I remember - when we debated, there was also a story about this survey, but the question is whether the Constitutional Court has assessed how representative this survey was, or whether it really involves... Was it really so representative that we could say that the region of Varakļānu expressed its desire to join that region or another region? Has this survey not been manipulative? Because, as we know... As far as I remember, this survey must have been carried out as once those who then challenged... were related to those who once challenged this decision of our Saeima. Here again the question turns out to be... So here I would like to hear what's in the course of this survey, what it's been like. And then again, the question is how competent and responsible the Constitutional Court has taken its decision. Perhaps the Constitutional Court has been misled and has not verified these facts, whether this questionnaire could have been representative. In this case, if really this is the argument why... and it really is an important argument... If the residents of Varaklani municipality have expressed their will and they really want to be in Madona, then, of course... Then it would be right for us to follow this. If that is not the case, if in fact Varakļānu novads, the residents of the municipality, want it as we decided... In response to this, at least our party, we received a great deal of requests precisely to make Varaklani stay in Rezekne district, so that they would stay with Latgale. And still after this, what happened, this Constitutional Decision, is just... Now Latgale is turning, Varakļāni, our people, our voters from Latgale, they meet, and we hear only that please leave Varakļāns at Rezekne, leave them in Latgale! Colleagues, would we not, let us say, that we are now rushing to make a decision here, in fact ignoring the will of the people, just because they have probably been political manipulations in which the Constitutional Court has been involved or deceived? Would it not be right for us to be responsible, in this case, not on our head, to rush through the neck to make a decision, but perhaps to really find out what the real will of the people of the Varaklani district has actually been. After all, we can make a referendum of the municipality and find out (after the results of the referendum of the municipality), as is actually the case, because what I understand is that important argument, one of the most important arguments for the Constitutional Court, why the Constitutional Court has taken this decision on accession to Madona municipality. Perhaps this has been manipulation. I think it is very important to find out. All the more because we... we know ourselves how we have now followed these decisions of the Constitutional Court. Personally, I have lost my faith in the Constitutional Court... the fact that this court is able to decide competently and really legally, not politically manipulatable - after they decided on the same OIC, because it was for me as a man who focuses on these matters, just to be seen as such... It's hard for me to name... Legal nihilism, but it was obviously a disregard of both the whole logic and the rule of law, that is, if one of the cases, where the Constitutional Court should have assessed, that is, regarding this overcompensation, about this excessively generous support... As the Constitutional Court avoided doing so, it interviewed any simple experts, but not those who had to ask the substance, that is, the European Commission, because this story of overcompensation arose after the decision of the European Commission. What was done by the Constitutional Court - it was simply constant, just as far as possible avoiding the blind, it was not a question for this institution to find out how it was overcompensated there. More than that. When I saw what was going on, I sent the Constitutional Court the European Commissioner, Vestageres, who is responsible as once for this decision... I was, a letter, where obviously... It was evident that we were not wrong with this case, even then the Constitutional Court blindly ignored it, pretended that there was nothing like that, and did not do so. As a result... And yes, he drew his decision, and as a result he still made his decision... Let us say that, not only was it not competent, it was not timely. As a result... Why was it done, it was very clear, because if such a decision - competent, responsible - were made in time, we would have a completely different composition of the Saeima here today, we would have a completely different government. We would not have this stupid, indecisionless and incompetent decision, which is affecting the whole country of Latvia, which is responsible for the death of thousands of people, which makes use of the entired millions. And that's all... To a large extent, the Constitutional Court shares responsibility for this with its decisions... the manner in which it has decided. In my opinion, it has decided politically manipulatively. Unfortunately, I see this here too. The only way to test this is to make a referendum in the municipality in the Varakļāni region and to clarify it. Perhaps this referendum would not only be a serious question about regional reform, about what it should look like, but also about how important organs in our country work, in particular - the Constitutional Court. Colleagues! I ask you to think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U40	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U41	Hello, colleagues! I also got acquainted with the decision of the Constitutional Court, and I was also caused by... raised a number of questions concerning this decision and the draft law drawn up. In its decision, the Constitutional Court refers, for example, to the population survey, which has been carried out by the municipality and surveyed about 1000 inhabitants, although in the region as a whole there are approximately 3000 inhabitants. And then it is clear that it is not clear what kind of survey it has actually been, what principles people have been consulted on and what was the purpose of this survey, what were the questions, because, for example, if there were questions about jobs, traffic and so on, maybe the population would be inclined to the other side. That's one. Second. The Constitutional Court refers to the emotional debate of Members about belonging, the belonging of Varakļāni municipality, to Latgale, and does not call at all that Members also talked about socio-economic considerations, including that it would be more advantageous for Varakļāni city and the parish to be directly connected to Rēzekne municipality, because the city of Rēzekne, which is the region's national development centre, has more jobs, more services and more convenient traffic with Rezekne than with Madon... It is clear that its accession would be better for Rezekne Municipality than for Madona. And that is also in the decision of the Constitutional Court... is such a paragraph, where the opinion of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development is asked, where the Ministry states that it cannot object to the fact that Varakļāni municipality is more advantageous, i.e., for the city and the parish, it is better to join Rēzekne municipality than Madona municipality, because socio-economic considerations are very better if it joins Rēzekne municipality. It's the other. Third. Of course, I am positive that this issue has been discussed and evaluated and the Constitutional Court has its own opinion on it. At the same time, I did not see a completely detailed view of what I wanted to see in this decision, which would also include not only the debate that some Members have debated and a survey carried out by other politicians in their own region, but also an analytical survey of how it would be logical to add Varaklanus to one or the other region, namely, in view of this, I have already said in advance that perhaps Murmastiene parish is really closer to Madona and maybe this... should only view the addition of Murmastiene parish separately to Madona. Whereas Varakļānu and Varakļānu parishes should be added to Rēzekne municipality, which in itself would be logical, in my opinion, because Varakļāni is, if I am not mistaken, at least 12 kilometres closer to Rēzekne than Madona. All the above arguments, in my opinion, are only good for the fact that Varakļānu city and the parish belong more from a socio-economic point of view precisely to Rēzekne municipality. Other colleagues have already spoken about cultural history. And I think because when you drive from Jēkabpils to Rezekne on the Rēzekne highway, the city and the parish of Varakļāni are on this highway... It seems obvious to all residents that when traveling from Jēkabpils to Rezekne, Latgale is starting here, not Vidzeme. Well, that's as logical as it seems. As a result, it is also a cultural and historical aspect that... In my opinion, both socio-economic and cultural, there is a rationale. Therefore, I will now support the draft law because the Constitutional Court has decided. For my part, I plan to submit proposals that will adjust this draft law, creating it according to the more realistic situation, where Murmastiene parish could be included in Madona municipality and Varakļāni would remain with Rēzekne municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U42	I closed the debate. Juris Puce, on behalf of the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U43	The Commission supported the draft law at first reading and is asking the Saeima to support it at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U44	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Administrative Territories and Populations”! Please vote mode! For -63, for -1, for -1, for -1. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the examination of the draft law at the second, final, reading session of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U45	The deadline for tabling proposals for second reading is one hour, namely 13.20. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - today, 31 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U46	Thank you. No other proposals were therefore received at the Bureau. As a result, the deadline for tabling proposals is 13.20 a.m. and, consequently, today, 31 May, in an extraordinary meeting. The next one on today's agenda is the draft law “Law on Elections of Madona Municipality Council and Rezekne Municipality Council”. The Administrative Territorial Reform Commission proposes to refer the draft law “Law on Elections of Madona Municipality Council and Rezekne Municipality Council” to the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission, establishing that it is the Responsible Commission. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Administrative Territorial Reform Commission shall request the examination of the said draft law at first reading without re-examination within the responsible commission. Thus, the first reading of the draft law “Law on Elections of Madona Municipality Council and Rezekne Municipality Council” is under consideration. On behalf of the Commission on Territorial Reform, Member Juris Puce. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U47	The Administrative Territorial Reform Commission has developed the draft law “Law on Elections of Madona Municipality Council and Rezekne Municipality Council” to comply with the judgement of the Constitutional Court of 28 May 2021 in the case No. 2020-43-0106 With this judgment and with the support of the first reading of amendments to the Law on Administrative Territories and Residents, it appears that it is impossible to ensure the conduct of elections in the newly created territories of Madona Municipality and Rezekne Municipality on 5 June this year. It therefore takes sufficient time for the organisation of the elections, and it is necessary to ensure that the necessary preparatory work is carried out and to ensure equal and equal treatment of those who wish to participate in the elections, both with their active and passive electoral rights. For this reason, in compliance with the judgment of the Constitutional Court, a draft law is proposed according to which elections in the regions of Madona and Rezekne will be held - it would not take place on 5 June, but it would take place on 11 September of this year, subject to all the time limits provided for in the Law on Elections of Local Governments in relation to both preparation, submission, registration, examination of candidates of Members, printing of electoral marks, preparation of electoral roll, possibility for voters to register for voting according to the characteristics of property, application for voting from abroad, as well as preparation and provision of training of members of the electoral district committee, adjustment of the information system of election management and electoral register. This fixed time limit, 11 September, also obliges to ensure the work of the municipality throughout this period, taking into account the fact that the municipality must ensure the exercise of the rights of the residents, which is provided for for this purpose in the Constitution and laws. Until and including 30 June this year, of course, work continues by those municipalities that were elected in 2017, but with the entry into force of 1 July 2021 a new administrative territorial division takes effect, and neither the future district of Madona nor the future district of Rēzekne with such territory and the electoral mandate of such population groups has been given directly to the municipality. For this purpose, a model is proposed, where during the period from 1 July to the meeting of new municipalities, which would take place in Madona municipality and Rezekne municipality on 1 October, municipal functions would be performed by temporary administration. On this issue, the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission had a very wide-ranging debate on Friday, and several Members pointed out that the model chosen, where so... as is currently the text of the first reading of the draft law, namely that public administration... at the same time, the civil servants of the state would be members of the temporary administration during this period, not proportionate to the situation, because in fact neither Madona municipality, Rēzekne municipality, nor other municipalities involved here – Ērgļi, Lubāna, Cesvaine or Varakļāna, or the municipalities of Viļāni municipality – have been dismissed, they have successfully fulfilled their duties. Therefore, potential alternative options were also discussed, and today, in the debate on the previous draft law, Regina Ločmele, one of our members of the Commission, also mentioned the fact that in fact this weekend the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development of Latvia, as well as the Saeima staff and sounding, including the Latvian Municipal Union and other institutions, how to ensure it... how the temporary administration could work, while ensuring that local government representation is maintained. Such a proposal will certainly be discussed by the Commission at second reading and I hope it will also be supported. These are the main additional provisions. In addition, of course, rules have been laid down for the successful conduct of the elections, deadlines have been set, procedures for the election of expenditure have been set. The draft law therefore covers all the necessary issues related to the elections to Madona Municipality Council and Rezekne Municipality Council. At its meeting on Friday, 28 May, the Commission supported the urgency of the draft law and supported the draft law at first reading. Please give the Saeima urgency to this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U48	Consequently, Members have not applied for a debate on the urgent nature of the draft law. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Law on Elections of Madona Municipality Council and Rezekne Municipality Council” as urgent! Please vote mode! It's not about - 65, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U49	Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U50	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! Mr. Valaiņš, please apply in time! Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U51	Thank you, honourable Head of the sitting. I tried to do it in time... some technical challenges today. I would like to say about this draft law, the honourable Saeima: it is necessary, and in a way... We have also voted for urgency, and the rules contained in this draft law are subject to discussion, such as the rules on deadlines when these elections are actually held, because, as we have seen, postponing for so long that the elections will only be held in September is, in essence, justified by the fact that the Authority for Citizenship and Migration would not be able to prepare technically... In my opinion, this is an issue that should be further assessed in the committee for the second reading - whether these elections can really take place more quickly. But there's one thing we were in the commission... on which we debated a great deal, and I thank the rapporteur, Mr Puces, for mentioning, when reporting on the bill, this was also mentioned, on which the Commission had quite a serious debate - on the delegated representatives, who will then be appointed by this temporary administration. I would like to say that the local authorities also took part in this commission, and I have also spoken to most of these local authorities on these holidays; today from the morning I call on these local authorities, all of whom are against the appointment of central government, which is usually done in cases where a council is dismissed or someone has... This is the bad way that has happened. Varakļānu novads has won the Constitutional Court, and all other county managers... including the Varaklani Municipality Council itself is in some way pushed aside, but during this period, very serious decisions will have to be made, which are political decisions that should be decided on by people who have a mandate given by voters. These are the creation of development planning documents as well as the new structure of the district, now at least the establishment of its foundations, because the key points on the "i" will be shared by the newly elected council following these municipal elections, but all decisions to be taken in the context of administrative territorial reform from July onwards are political issues, and it is very unacceptable that such issues are decided by representatives appointed by the central government, who are very likely to be... I strongly doubt their qualitative participation in these sittings and their understanding of what is happening in these regions on the spot, how the district's work is organised, without questioning that they are, of course, professionals, but they also have a basic job on a daily basis. It is not, however, as it was, when the Riga City Council was dismissed, when three representatives were appointed, whose main job was, however, in Riga and walking to the Riga City Council was perhaps not as burdensome as in this case. Walking to Madona from Old Town, I think there will be quite a challenge... or to Rezekne municipality, and to expect such quality work there would be an even greater challenge. This is a very, very important section, which makes it impossible for us to support this draft law at first reading, so we will vote against it at first reading, but we will submit it if the Saeima gets support for the draft law in this form... we will, for the second reading, produce versions which are in line with local councils and which could make this situation a little good by mitigating the already existing situation of chaos in some of these regions, by reducing the excessive shocks that are present. Thank you. We will vote against.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U52	I closed the debate. Juris Puce, on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U53	As I said, there was a very wide-ranging debate on this issue in the Commission on Friday, and this issue will certainly be dealt with in the second reading in order to find an optimal solution to the issue of temporary management after the creation of the new area on 1 July. In the Commission, the draft law was supported and I also call on the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U54	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Law on Elections of Madona Municipality Council and Rezekne Municipality Council”! Please vote mode! For - 55, for - 7 and for - 1. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set the deadline for the second reading of the proposals and the time for the second, final and final reading of the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U55	The deadline for tabling proposals is one hour, namely 13:35, and consideration at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima - today, 31 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2261-U56	No other proposals have been received here at the Bureau. The deadline for tabling the proposals for second reading is 13.35 today, 31 May, and the discussion is held in extraordinary session on 31 May. We have reviewed the agenda of the first remote emergency session of the Saeima on 31 May 2021. As we have also decided ourselves that the draft laws will be examined in the second, final, reading of today's extraordinary sitting, then, colleagues, I invite you to follow the information on when the next extraordinary sitting will be convened. As soon as the Bureau has received the necessary documents from the commission responsible, it will convene a meeting. You will be briefed on the time of the second extraordinary meeting. So today, 31 May, there will be another extraordinary sitting of the Saeima. Only registration of participants. It's been a success. The agenda for the remote emergency session was examined on 31 May. I'm closing the sitting.
