ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2255-U1	Honourable Members! Let us begin the fourth remote emergency sitting on 20 May this year. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. The draft decision “On the approval of Kristīne Zīles as a judge of the Supreme Court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2255-U2	Dear colleagues, During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 19 May, the draft decision “On the approval of Kristīne Zīle as a judge of the Supreme Court” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on Kristīne Zīle to confirm the judge of the Supreme Court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2255-U3	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the approval of Kristīne Zīle as a judge of the Supreme Court”! Please, let's vote! On - 74, against and refrains - not. Decision adopted. On the agenda - examination of the draft law. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Bars’, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2255-U4	Hello, colleagues! See the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Barn Courts” (No. 1047/Lp13). The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Barn Courts” has been created in the Working Party of the Ministry of Welfare in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, the State Children’s Rights Protection Inspectorate and other institutions. In February this year, the Cabinet examined the information report prepared by this working group on the improvement of the system for protecting children's rights. And on this basis, amendments have been made. To a large extent, the bill is the answer to the audit of the State Audit Office several years ago “Disposed Childhood. Every child has the right to grow up in the family’ and the Ombudsman’s opinion on repeated offences in which... the state is unable to act in the best interests of children for various practical and structural reasons. As was said during the debate at the Legal Commission when we discussed this matter, this law had long since entered into force in order to remedy the shortcomings. We have now asked from the Commission for urgency for this draft law, because after the municipal elections on 5 June, new, joint municipalities (after the administrative territorial reform adopted last year) will start work and new orphan courts will have to be created in many places. The draft law also denies these cases. The Bar Associations in general are entrusted with the adoption of particularly sensitive decisions affecting the future lives of each child and each person in charge of whom the decision has been taken. The draft law provides for new legal employment relationships for the staff of the orphan courts, selection procedures, training obligations and working arrangements, until such amendments can improve the quality of the work of the orphan courts. According to the Ministry of Welfare, in preparation for this draft law and the information report, only 40 percent of the members of orphan courts in Latvia work full-time and 36 percent work hours. Working part-time, combined positions are very often unable to ensure a high-quality decision-making process in the best interests of children. This is one of the reasons for the violations found in the State Audit Office report – that decisions are not made in good time in orphan courts. The Ombudsman of the Republic of Latvia has also stressed that on the part of the employees of orphan courts there is insufficient response to violations of the protection of children's rights. The Commission examined the draft law and supported it for consideration by the Saeima at first reading. The Commission is asking to first identify the urgency of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2255-U5	Colleagues, let's vote on setting the urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Barn Courts” as urgent! Please, let's vote! For - 77, for - 4, for - 2. The draft law has been declared urgent. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Barn Courts at first reading! Please, let's vote! For - 81, for - no, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2255-U6	The deadline for proposals is 2 June this year, and consideration at the Saeima sitting - 17 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2255-U7	Thank you. Deadline for the proposals - 2 June this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 17 June this year. Requests received by Members. Members Viktors Valainis, Edgars Tavars, Armands Krauze, Uldis Augulis, Maris Kučinskis, Jānis Dūklavs, Jānis Vucāns, Raimonds Bergmanis, Gundars Dauge and Jūlija Stepanenko have submitted a request to the Minister of Health Danielas Pavļutas “Is public interests respected in the MK regulations project developed by the Ministry of Health “The criteria for placement of pharmacy and pharmacy branches””. The name of Member Viktor Valainis - motivation.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2255-U8	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Today, of course, there are many important issues on the agenda for the Minister for Health. The primary Ministry of Health, of course, has a fight against the challenges posed by the Covid-19, but what we are seeing is also going on at the moment, which is also taking place in the shadow of the Covid-19, using the fact that non-governmental organisations, experts in the field, quite simply, cannot participate qualitatively in the discussions. It is, by its very nature, restrictive of the market and, in my opinion, a reform of the corridors of the Ministry of Health, which is being proposed and on which there is no public consultation on the substance. The industry's representatives are alarming, sounding the alarms that this is, it could be said, such a peculiar attempt to re-allocate the market, but no one understands how this re-allocation is going to work; maybe there are some unknown foreign... new players for whom no one... is not in the course that this could be the case at all. However, in essence, it is proposed to have a very, very important impact on the location of existing pharmacy networks. In particular, it is predicted that in the city centre - in a place where very many services are concentrated logically - it is only possible for the pharmacy to be 500 metres away from each other. That, in my view, is not understandable. And there are a lot of unanswered questions in this case. How have we even reached such criteria? We have also rightly asked in the request... Why has the Ministry of Health suddenly come to mind during the Covid-19 crisis to direct such a kind of unwarranted and highly dubious project, on which the Minister himself, when meeting with the industry, can really not explain what its aim is then? What does that do? What benefits will society bring? In our view, at present pharmacy services should be much wider than they are at present. Pharmacy should potentially provide much more services and be a much larger component of the healthcare sector. Now Minister Pavluts goes completely strange and incomprehensible... industry incomprehensible... And I think it's a very wrong way to go. We therefore demand that Mr Pavļuta justify why he chooses such a path and where he then has these criteria, which are proposed in these regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2255-U9	Thank you. The request shall be submitted to the Requesting Commission. Members Ivars Zarins, Valerijs Agešins, Jānis Tutins, Jānis Krišāns, Arturs Rubiks, Boriss Cilevičs, Regina Ločmele, Ivans Klementjevs, Ivans Ribakovs and Edgars Kucins have submitted a request to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On the failure of your government to justify the proposed benefits for Covid-19 vaccine vaccinated people and measures to control Covid-19 infection”. The name of Member Ivars Zarins - motivation. Mr Zarins has asked in writing for a statement of reasons. Mr. Zarins, you must also apply electronically. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. ( Pause) We can't hear you, Mr. Zarin.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2255-U10	Can you hear it now?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2255-U11	Now you can.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2255-U12	As you know, our smart and decisive government has decided that it should be decided that sometime, under some conditions, we should introduce reliefs for vaccinees and perhaps also consider compulsory vaccination. Therefore, just after the meeting of the Government on 20 April, in which the Ministry of Health presented its own presentation on exemptions for vaccinated persons and on considerations for compulsory vaccination, we asked the Minister of Health with good reason for fear that this could be another absurd and discriminatory decision of the government, which is again being taken without due justification. We submitted questions to the Minister for Health asking for clarification, to provide justification from the Ministry for Health. Unfortunately, having taken note of the answers given by the Minister for Health to these questions, it must be concluded that the Minister for Health has been unable, in principle, to respond to most of the Members' questions so that it can be verified that these proposals from the Ministry of Health are justified. Neither has it been able to provide any justification at all for what the Ministry of Health proposes. All this gives rise to legitimate concern that the government led by Krišjānis Kariņš is once again going to take a current decision, which it is not able to implement either on the ground or in the bear. In order to prevent or, most likely, to confirm these justified concerns, we have prepared this request, and we will wait for answers to that. We hope they won't let us down.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2255-U13	The request shall be submitted to the Requesting Commission. Members Ivars Zariņš, Valerijus Agešins, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Arturs Rubiks, Jānis Tutins, Ivans Ribakovs, Edgars Kucins, Regīna Ločmele, Jānis Krišāns and Ivans Klementjevs have submitted a request to the Minister of Health Daniels Pavluts “On the actions of Latvian officials and the real ones responsible for the purchase of vaccines. Purchase of bioNTech/Pfizer vaccines’. The name of Member Ivars Zarins - motivation.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2255-U14	Colleagues! The déjà vu feeling of such a déjà vu... as was the case with OICa. The same scenario begins here, i.e., by analogy to all cases where the power wants to hide the true circumstances of the case from its work, it tries not to submit the requested information from the outset. If it doesn't save, try to wipe the truth out in the floods of misleading information. If it doesn't help, then begin to create a maze of your information and events, to lead from the truth to your own... the alternative reality for itself. Yesterday, on 19 May, in the meeting of the Committee on Petitions, consideration of the request made by Members “On actions of Latvian officials and the true responsible for the procurement of vaccines” was started. This examination was initiated despite the fact that the defendant, i.e. the Minister of Health, had only submitted the information requested on the afternoon of the previous day. It's a clear disrespect for the Saeima. We made this request after meeting the service inspections of the Ministry of Health. so-called'service checks'. You know, there's an ironic joke: if you need to hide the perpetrators and what's actually happened, then you need to be able to do the first test and tell them... It's a classic. Unfortunately, even in this case, with the results of the tests - the so-called results of the tests - there is a reasonable fear that these so-called tests have been carried out not to reveal the truth and the true ones responsible for the events, but to hide them. The Minister was therefore asked a number of questions from Members. Unfortunately, the answers, as expected, only confirmed these concerns. Therefore, a request was submitted to the Minister for the purchase of these vaccines, which was rejected yesterday at the Panel's meeting, not allowing any question to be examined and almost no question to be answered on its substance. It was a circus for an hour. All of this has already been experienced by the OIC. We know these moves. We know what to do with this. We already have a vaccine in place against this disease of the rule of law and democracy, it works more effectively than Pfizer or Moderna! On the same day, yesterday, we made three new requests with the same unanswered and additional questions; this is just one of them. We will continue from where we finished. We did it 20 times with OIC. Whatever the politicians of power do not want to reveal the truth, it will be revealed, regardless of you. It only depends on how much blood this will be done. The greater the resistance, the greater the blink when this truth is revealed. You have the opportunity to demonstrate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2255-U15	The request shall be addressed to the Commission. Members Ivars Zariņš, Valerijus Agešins, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Arturs Rubiks, Jānis Tutins, Ivans Ribakovs, Edgars Kucins, Regīna Ločmele, Jānis Krišāns and Ivans Klementjevs have submitted a request to the Minister of Health Daniels Pavluts “On the actions of Latvian officials and the real ones responsible for the purchase of vaccines. Modern purchase of vaccines’. The name of Member Ivars Zarins - motivation.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2255-U16	Yes, this is the second of the three requests submitted. In particular, it was not the purchase of moderna vaccines and is responsible for this. According to the ruling legends, the main responsibilities that have decided everything are officials - or so - the so-called ad hoc working group. According to the so-called Service Verification Report and the replies given by the Minister for Health (I quote!) “It has not been possible to find out who convened the meetings of this working group that decided not to purchase vaccines or what the mandate of this working group had, which gave it the right to make such a decision, nor what opinions the members of this working group had expressed, nor what the working group had then decided and how this decision had been and was then formulated in order to prepare and send Latvia's response to the purchase of modern vaccines on the basis of this.” It is also claimed that (I quote!) ‘no information has been obtained that the management of the Ministry of Health is informed about the conduct of this working group meeting and the decisions taken therein’. You know, any critically mindful person, who is even a little familiar with the decision-making procedure in the public administration, should rightly have the question of the credibility of such a procedure for the procurement of these vaccines by the officials of the Ministry of Health - that the officials themselves have made such responsible decisions on their own initiative and responsibility, without them being clearly given powers and allowing them not to inform the Ministry's management at all. Does one of you think that's reliable? However, for some reason the Minister for Health has not raised such a question - just as there has not been a desire to see whether the administration of the Ministry of Health was indeed not aware of these decisions of the working group and decided in a personal manner everything without any political advice on procurement. In fact, it would be quite simple to find out. Just ask the members of this section. No wonder the Minister for Health does not want to do so. In particular, Sven Hankuzen... The question is, why does the Minister avoid doing this? With this request, we will help the Minister to do so. Or we will show it to the whole of Latvian society, which is the subject of this case. In this case, we will continue to vaccinate with our truth vaccine until we are free of the disease. Let me tell you more about this when we talk about the next request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2255-U17	The request shall be submitted to the Requesting Commission. Members Ivars Zariņš, Valerijus Agešins, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Arturs Rubiks, Jānis Tutins, Ivans Ribakovs, Edgars Kucins, Regīna Ločmele, Jānis Krišāns and Ivans Klementjevs have submitted a request to the Minister of Health Daniels Pavluts “On the actions of Latvian officials and the real ones responsible for the purchase of vaccines. Participation of the management of the Ministry of Health’. The name of Member Ivars Zarins - motivation.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2255-U18	Yes, this is now the third request, which has helped lighten the real involvement of political officials from the Ministry of Health at this start of the purchase of vaccines, because, as I said, the truth is not so complicated. Was there no official in making these decisions on the purchase of vaccines, having received any instructions from the political officials? Was or was not the political officer aware of these decisions made by officials? All of this can be clarified. However, if it is true that the verification report states that the Ministry of Health has not been involved in any decision on the purchase of vaccines in a situation where the government of Krišjānis Kariņš has announced vaccination as its only exit from the Covid crisis, then it shows a high degree of irresponsibility and negligence of political officials on this issue. Not only political responsibility but also criminal responsibility for such actions would be due, as it has created a significant threat to public health, lost lives of many people and caused many millions of losses to the Latvian economy, prolonging exit from the crisis. That is why it is in the interest of all society and every responsible politician - to find out the real circumstances of the case. In this context, the action of Member Rihards Kozlovskis, who is the head of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, which must carry out investigations into these sub-groups in order to reveal to the public the names of the political officials who have had irreversible negative consequences for Latvia, is particularly dubious and worthy of public attention, and especially the members of the parliamentary committee of inquiry! - because his vote yesterday in the Committee on Petitions was decisive, which prevented the Commission from taking a decision on whether the Minister for Health should provide the requested information to clarify the real circumstances of the purchase of these vaccines and the real involvement of political officials in this process. That is why we are also preparing this new demand. And I have a question. Mr Kozlovsky, have you been chosen to lead this parliamentary committee of inquiry in order to cover up possible powers and fulfil the role of an investigator? I call on all the public to follow the votes of Member Rihards Kozlovska in this regard, as it will work as a vaccination. And, of course, I call on all the public to follow the votes of the political forces that promised you to fight against the ubiquitousness and irresponsibility of power. It will also be a vaccination and, to a certain extent, the acquisition of a crowd of immunity against politically irresponsible promises. I invite you to follow up on these requests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2255-U19	The request shall be addressed to the Commission. Members Viktors Valainis, Uldis Augulis, Edgars Tavars, Māris Kučinskis, Jānis Dūklavs, Jānis Vucāns, Raimonds Bergmanis, Jūlija Stepanenko, Gundars Dauge and Armands Krauze have submitted a request to the Minister of Health Danielas Pavluts “On a repeated request from oncology doctors and patients’ organisations to senior state officials not to postpone increasing funding for oncology” once again. The name of Member Viktor Valainis - motivation.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2255-U20	President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Despite these many requests that have coincided with Mr Pavlut this week, this will be another. In a way, with our first request, and also with this, second one, we want to draw the attention of our colleagues and also the public to the fact that the Ministry of Health is not only the Ministry of the Covid-19, it has a much broader function. And this is a very strong political question about... on the subject of oncology, because once again, organisations have addressed public letters to officials, and we also want to draw attention to this, and we call on the Ministry to explain it, and we demand that there be a clear vision of how this money will be requested, whether it really will be required to the extent necessary. Today there are more than 80,000 cancer patients in Latvia. Each year about 11,000 come to whom this diagnosis is being installed for the first time in life. There are a number of questions specifically about the amount of funding that should be clear - the sooner, the better. In my opinion, we, the Saeima as a whole, need to look at what is happening in the area of health more widely than at present, when only about and around the Covid-19... We have a reform of pharmacy that is going on behind closed doors, we have health... We also have other areas of oncology that raise alarms and scann alarm calls... We have big hospitals that have debts that do not pay money, and doctors, medical staff, of course, feel that this money does not come. And these are millions that are not paid, which are real debts on the part of the state. There's money, but people don't get to hospitals. And I do not think that is really a normal situation. That's why we're gonna ask... one after the other, let us bring this matter to light and invite the Ministry to explain why issues are not dealt with in the normal, understandable, transparent and... so that these organizations don't come like... this is not the case where these organisations should be praying for a year; there should be clear, preventive action by politicians, and that is what we are asking for, too, to explain in this area... specifically on oncology. But, colleagues, there will be other areas... Viewing the budget is not the only time to talk about money; we can talk about money more quickly and find clarity about the sectors, the areas, how they will be financed in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2255-U21	This request shall also be submitted to the Requesting Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda of the sitting has been examined. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. Thank you all for your work today. I'm closing the sitting.
