ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-07-PT13-2228-U1	Honourable Members! We will begin to look at the agenda for the remote emergency session on 7 April this year. On the agenda, reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda, dealing with Members' requests. Requests received by Members. On the agenda – request from Members Ivars Zariņa, Ivana Ribakova, Valeria Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Tutina, Boris Cileviča, Vital Orlova, Regina Ločmele, Ivana Klementjeva and Janis Krišāns to the Minister for Health Daniel Pavilāts "On the avoidance of the Minister for Health to reply to the Members' question on the Order for a Dose of “Modern” Vaccine". Member Ivars Zarins - for motivation. Mr Zarins, you have to apply if you want to motivate the request. So again – the name of the Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-07-PT13-2228-U2	Good afternoon, everybody! We have prepared another request on the purchase of vaccines, in particular, how they were not purchased. The reason why we had to prepare the request is that, as early as March this year, we called on the Minister for Health to explain certain details in relation to... Now, with the purchase of modern vaccines, because according to the information we have, it turns out that we have not only bought the Pfizer vaccines that we have been offered, which many know about, but that is exactly the same... a similar story has been with “Modern” vaccines. We asked specific questions to which we wanted answers. Unfortunately, the health minister avoided giving answers to these questions, arguing that a test of service was being carried out before he would answer those questions. It surprised us very much – and I think it will surprise the entire Latvian society as well! – because, in principle, the questions we asked the Minister... There's no need for a service check, we just asked... certain cases for which the Ministry of Health needed to be clear, when specific requests for ‘Modernized’ vaccines were submitted in order to provide Latvia with its answers. Who looked at them? How did it work? This would not at all require a service test. The fact that these reservations are going on is that, you know, we're going to make a test of service first... It seems that it will be the same test of the service as was made for the Pfizer vaccines, that the test of that service was made not to establish the truth, but all the facts show that the test of that service was made to cover the real and real responsibilities or, in fact, the irresponsibility with which this purchase of vaccines was made. That is why we addressed the Minister with similar questions as early as 18 March. I would like to point out that this is a gross violation of the parliamentary order roll, that this request, which has already been submitted on 18 March, is being dealt with only now. Today, we should have debated here the answers given by the Ministry. We very much hope that this request will be passed on to the Minister for Health in due time and that the examination of the request, including the receipt of the information requested, will be organised in accordance with the parliamentary order. I call on the whole community to follow this, because perhaps there will be no less scandalous facts that we have already begun to reveal about the purchase of Pfizer vaccines, for example, that the service test, which was allegedly done by the Ministry of Health to reveal what is happening, did not reveal the fact that information on the purchase of these vaccines was actually submitted to Latvia on 11 November. That's not why it was defaulted. Not 17, but 11! This is a fundamental difference. I call everyone to follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-07-PT13-2228-U3	Consequently, we shall refer the request to the Requesting Commission. Members Ivars Zarins, Valerijs Agešins, Boriss Cilevičs, Ivans Klementjevs, Jānis Krišāns, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Arthurs Rubiks, Edgars Kucins, Ivans Ribakovs and Igors Pimenovs have submitted a request to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On your avoidance and inability to justify the implementation of SIA TITLED respiratory procurement in the public interest of Latvia”. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-07-PT13-2228-U4	Good afternoon, everyone! This is another thing that we are continuing to divide and that looks more and more like an apocalypse on the coup d'état in connection with this purchase of TITTED. We have prepared this new request for Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš. As you know, this is not the first demand for this scandalous procurement. We saw the previous request for this purchase in the Saeima in the age. And even though this request was reviewed in the Saeima for several weeks, it was convened by re-meetings of the Request Commission to enable the defendant appointed by Krišjānis Kariņš to submit the requested information, which would actually justify them... the claims made by them and the factual circumstances of the case concerning this procurement, the defendants have not been in a position or have avoided providing this information. Thus, it was still not possible for the company to verify whether the choice of suppliers was justified, whether the selected delivery volumes and other conditions, whether the purchase price was reasonable, as well as the need for the selected procurement procedure. As you know, they were bought by circumventing the requirements of the law. The process of dealing with this request and the information coming to the media is of reasonable concern that this purchase of TITLD has not been made with public interest interest, but rather, using the situation by manipulating the circumstances of the case in order to obtain a good deal for a narrow group of people... the failure of the government to act, irresponsibility and incompetentness. For example, the Ministry of Defence... and concrete facts... Nor has it been able to explain why it was urgently necessary to buy almost a million respiratory equipment if, more than half a year later, almost half of them were still unused. Why was it necessary to choose to buy respiratory equipment directly from the advertising agency TITLED, if there were other, obviously more advantageous offers? How have they been assessed? What information was provided to the government in order to obtain the necessary decision to buy respiratory equipment after the so-called simplified procedure bypassing the law? And how the state will be recovered... the losses incurred? These questions were not answered in advance. We expect it... We hope to wait and demand it... get it now. If the government tries to continue concealing the real circumstances of this transaction, it will be seen as a deliberate action to conceal a possible crime, the implementation of which may have also involved members of Krišjānis Kariņš government, so it is in the interests of Krišjānis Kariņš himself – to ensure that the requested information is provided in the framework of this procedure in order to dispel concerns. Thank you. I invite you to follow me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-07-PT13-2228-U5	Therefore, we also refer this request – in accordance with the rule of the Saeima – to the Committee on Petitions. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reviewed the agenda for the remote emergency sitting on 7 April this year. There is still time for the statements. Dear colleagues, Our colleague Boris Cilevičs celebrated a very beautiful anniversary on March 26, and we welcome him. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. After 15 minutes, we will continue with the pending agenda of the second remote emergency session on 18 March this year. So let's keep going at 3:30. I closed the remote emergency sitting on 7 April this year.
