ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U1	Dear Members and honourable Members, The second remote emergency sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 11 February 2021. There is only one item on the agenda: "Provision of draft decisions". The draft decision “On Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 5 February 2021 No. 74 amending Order of 6 November 2020 No. 655 ‘Proclaiming an emergency’. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U2	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! In its meeting of February 10, 2021, the Commission of Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention reviewed the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers, which extended the state of emergency until April 6 of this year, as well as identified individual cases, which amended the previously announced restrictions and conditions of the order on emergency. I will identify the most significant changes. With effect from 8 February and subject to the principles of safe trade, it is envisaged to take the first steps to waive the lists of restrictions on goods to be purchased on the spot. Bookstores that sell both books and stationery, shops that sell at least 70 per cent of food, and hygiene shops that sell at least 70 per cent of hygiene products will be available for sale; they will be able to sell a full range of their products in the future. It is also allowed to operate at places of sale where plants, sprouts, onions, seeds, substrates, fertilisers, lime and plant protection products, as well as electrical accessories – wires, extenders, chargers, equipment for disinfection and degasification can be purchased. More stringent epidemiological safety requirements have also been set for outlets, supermarkets and trade pavilions, starting on Monday 8 February. They impose a number of obligations on trading venues in order to reduce the potential for crowding-up of visitors. Stores and market pavilions must provide for an area of at least 25 square metres per visitor and place information on the maximum number of visitors at the entrance visible. Visitors may go alone, except for people who need help from an assistant and children under 12 years of age (with one adult). Shop visitors are invited to comply with the requirements set in the shopping venues, do not knock at the entrance, use baskets or trolleys. Traders, on the other hand, need to ensure more effective control over the flow of visitors. The responsibilities and responsibilities of traders have also been strengthened by identifying the responsible person in this area and by introducing an internal control system for the implementation of epidemiological safety measures in trading venues or shopping centres. A ban on marketing activities that promote the gathering of people at the point of sale is also laid down, as well as increased controls and responsibility for non-compliance with epidemiological safety measures. In addition to the obligations of traders, the right is provided to the State Police and the local government Police to decide on the immediate closure of a trading venue for a period of up to seven days for visitors. Such a decision can be taken both for a separate shop and for the entire shopping centre (of course depending on the seriousness of the infringement and the responsibilities involved). It is established that the decision takes effect at the time of its adoption and is enforceable without delay and that the challenge or appeal does not suspend its action. As of today, 11 February, the entry procedure is changed and in addition to the existing procedure, some restrictions are set to reduce the entry into Latvia of new types of highly dangerous Covid-19. In particular, from 11 February, as already mentioned, until 25 February, Latvia will only be allowed to enter for urgent and substantial reasons. There are eight reasons why we will be allowed to enter Latvia: for work, study and study purposes, as well as for humanitarian reasons; family reunification; medical services; unaccompanied minors; to return to their place of residence or go to funerals. An important ground for entry is also needed for persons from the EU. As regards residence permits, the amendment was made so that only those eight categories of persons would be able to enter. It will not be possible to enter on the basis of the presence of real estate in the country, nor if it is simply travel by itself. The reason for arrival in Latvia must be indicated by filling in a questionnaire on the website www.covidpass.lv. In turn, documents proving the reason for arrival must be ready for presentation upon request to the State Police or the Border Guard. It is important that passenger carriers should not receive passengers who have not indicated the purpose of travel in the Covidpass system. Also, immigrants still have an obligation to carry out covid tests both before their arrival in Latvia and to comply with self-insulation immediately after their arrival in Latvia. Here I would like to make it clear that this reason for travel in the Covidpass system must be indicated before boarding the aircraft; this means such new restrictions when travelling by air. As regards land vehicles... then exactly the same for passengers. The same applies to previous arrangements, plus one of these important entry restrictions. What, in turn, concerns persons who return to Latvia with vehicles... of course, it is not prohibited, and these persons will be admitted to the Republic of Latvia, but they will have to go into self-insulation accordingly. I would also add that international passenger transport between Latvia, the United Kingdom, Ireland and Portugal has also temporarily ceased. This applies both to air transport, bus and shipping. However, on a case-by-case basis, the Minister of Transport is entitled to decide by means of an individual assessment of the situation and by issuing a separate decision by the Minister on this type of movement. The Ordinance also provides for on-the-spot consultations, which will be open to all pupils at risk of school drop-out, as well as 12th grade pupils and vocational school students who have to pass national tests. Individual practical skills will also be available to university students who are studying various medical and veterinary programmes for the last year. Of course, this is only possible if the epidemiological safety requirements are met. It is also foreseen that the call number 8989 will be free of charge for early vaccination against Covid-19. For calls to this number, a zero tariff will apply from all electronic communications networks. In the Commission, having heard representatives of the ministries, institutions, legal experts, including a representative of the Ombudsman’s Office, the extension of the emergency situation and amendments to the order of the government were found to be justified, proportionate and necessary in the particular situation. I therefore call for support for the draft decision drawn up by the Commission. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U3	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U4	Hello, colleagues! I already said last time that what happens when the Saeima is used as a decoration for government decision-making is not – absolutely not! – acceptable. It's absurd! And it is so regrettable that it is understood by absolutely all residents of Latvia. They have so far asked me a question that has given the Cabinet so much authority, why the state of emergency is extended without any discussion in the Saeima. I hope that your constituents, the honourable coalition, have already expressed your indignation at how the state of emergency in Latvia was extended to 6 April, including Easter. I think that what our Prime Minister said last year – one year ago, on Easter, he called for the distance to be kept and for each other to show their eggs! – could be applied to this situation in two ways. The first is that again, this year too, there will be nothing left for us but to show our Easter eggs remotely. Unfortunately, however, our government has not been able to prove its potential in this case, and this is reflected in a number of actions. Well, the first question I was asked by my constituents in the last days, the first logically arising question, is there a commanding hour in Latvia. To answer that question, several institutions had to call. And I can assure you that even the local police do not understand and do not know to this day, and cannot plan their work, because they also do not know the answer, whether this holiday will keep the commandant hour. We look forward, we hope, however, that the government will decide today whether commanding hours are really necessary or whether they have such a huge impact on the epidemiological situation. The second, classes 1, 2 were not admitted to schools either. I think your constituents also described to you how and at what speed schools and classes were prepared, put a step in the school and tables to meet students of classes 1 and 2. And at the last moment – nothing other than Mrs. Šuplinska's apologies! Is it enough to plan normal school work? Is this enough to reduce the already high level of stress on our teacher? Above all, labour bans for a number of sectors. The beauty industry is simply desperate. I know that there are currently a number of associations, several independent working groups bringing together masters of beauty, breakers, attempts to meet representatives of both the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Health in order to implement their demands, their offers and so on. Instead of listening to the sector, it happens that we are building another institution, where we put back the same players (with a small "taste" in the form of two parliamentary commissions), we call it strategic crisis management... some center, commission, you don't know anything. This is absolute impotence! I could say this: there really is no eggs in power in this case, and nothing else will leave our citizens as simply to show them away in Easter, there is simply no other possibility. All this is deplorable, and the best thing that could continue to do in this case is to completely ignore this decoration with the fact that as if Parliament had confirmed absolutely powerless, unprofessional and no one had to... no "needs" government orders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U5	We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U6	Dear colleagues, I will also call for these amendments not to be supported in the Emergency Order. I was actually quite strange to hear the President of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption read all these restrictions with a serious face. We are already in such a little strange reality now, and it doesn't seem any funny or strange that a shop that doesn't respect any centimetres can close for seven days. It's no longer strange, it's not really crazy that we're watching – it's a fuel day! – people who cold out at shops minus 15 degrees only because maybe a omether who doesn't know how to use this Internet delivery order wants to buy food for everyday use. Well, yeah, people really want to eat what they're gonna do. And it doesn't seem strange, for example, that our ministers are beginning to behave more strangely – one is more strange than another. One shows natural phenomena in the Gulf of Riga, the other dreams about waxing in the forest, and the third does not understand where he has reached... and when we can start training remotely or unremovablely at all. I am talking about Mrs. Šuplinska. Colleagues, it's not even funny anymore, it's not weird anymore. It is simply sick – what is happening in the government today, all its empty discussions, all these restrictions, which are harmful to the health sector as well as to the economy... Because what did we hear this week? We heard ministers themselves... Minister Wittenberg admits that these restrictions, which were simply created before Christmas with blind eyes, have led to a greater increase in infection. And this is recognised by the Minister of Government! In other words, it is recognised by the rest of the ministers as well. Perhaps an epidemiologist will still argue, but it is clear that the Christmas restrictions, which caused people to change their daily habits quickly and gather in shopping centers, have led to an even greater increase in these morbidity rates. And who will answer for it? Nobody. And what happens next? Next, it is simply a divination of the new bans that have not yet been applied: let us see what will happen now, think of a few more metres to take off, or ban some of the goods! Making these restrictions is really a great secret to all of us. According to what criteria, what are the signs of this happening in our Cabinet? And that's why, together with our colleagues, we have prepared and signed a draft decision today... I am very sorry that we failed to collect signatures for the extraordinary sitting for various reasons, but... What we want – we want the government to hear us and stop training; so that the government will review these unusual restrictions to see what is happening to people, because people cannot buy their milk, because they have to stand for hours in a row on the island, in cold, at risk of their health. Let them review! Let them stop suffering small shops, small entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized businesses, who are currently in an absolutely wrong situation! It has to be done! If you do not understand it, we call you again on our part to do so. And I call for this draft decision not to be supported, so that the government even redrafts it today, puts the right things in place that are needed, but let this sick nightmare be taken out. It's not normal! And I also call on the other colleagues in the coalition not to support this draft decision. Please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U7	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U8	Welcome again. Dear President, Dear colleagues, When talking about these draft orders of the Cabinet of Ministers, it must be said that this situation is absolutely absolute – absolutely! - Not funny. We remember last week, when both the Minister of Education and Science and the other members of the Cabinet of Ministers invited schools to prepare for class 1 and 2 to teach in person, teachers, educators and organisers of the training process did their best to take place under these epidemiological conditions. These are, indicatively, several tens of thousands of children to whom it applies. And also for their parents, it applies to school teachers, to school management. Ordered food, all necessary to ensure this process, did everything possible for three days. It's Friday afternoon – no, but it won't! The same was the case last Friday – statements by the government and coalition parties that there will be 500 euros in support of families with children. It is clear that such support is now very, very necessary. A second political party comes forward and confirms that it will go even further – this support needs to be extended even further. People believe in that, hope. Someone had already planned that he would be able to pay his debts, pay for public utility services, buy a computer or internet box, which the Ministry of Education and Science has still not provided for children to receive this distance online training. People have a lot of different payments that are necessary for basic living. There is no support for trade workers at present. In the spring, you talked about one-off support for rents, now this is no longer happening. Many entrepreneurs are still being reclaimed for the cut-off benefits they received in the first wave. And where else talk about cultural institutions or catering companies! This is a very bad situation. Very many people have been left without work. Also hairdressers, beauty workers. We saw these campaigns organized by hairdressers. On the thin ice in nature minus 20 degrees barred people – it was a hairdresser action to draw attention to yourself. The Minister for Health comes out and says: “Yes, out, in nature, in the woods, cut hair is okay.” At the same time, the police are proposing acts on these people. That's... is not serious. And if we are also talking about this commandant hour, what do people plan for this holiday? The commandant hour will be or will not be the commandant hour? There is no clarity. All marketing restrictions. You can buy a mobile phone, you can't buy a charger. A flightman in a circle around shops to buy a charger. You can't buy it. A smaller retailer may think: “Yes, send me a text message, and then we’ll figure out something about how to buy it.” The result? The client has spent much more time in the marketplaces, much more at risk of getting this virus, but he does not even achieve the result. If we look at these restrictions that are taking place in trade, that is crazy! And, as my colleague Stepanenko said in her speech, there will also be proposals on our part, which we will also be able to vote on in future sittings. Similarly, for the entire economic sector as a whole. But the main thing is one thing. Colleagues, what we say – we also have to do this! If we promised that there would be EUR 500 for families with children, then it must be accepted. We, the opposition, have also tabled concrete proposals for the next sitting, so that we can vote on this too. People cannot ignore what politicians have said and promises from politicians. So much... So, as it happens right now... Therefore, colleagues, let us follow the principle that works stand above words! The Group of the Greens/ Farmers' Union will not vote in favour of this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U9	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U10	Will you unite me in time maybe?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U11	Both times of debate have been brought together by the Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U12	So, about restrictions. What is already in force must be confirmed today. Dear ones, now listen very carefully. This coalition will confirm today that you have to stand at supermarkets outside in the lines that are... Well, I'll keep that word down. I'll start with something else. And that's the other thing about benefits for families. Almost half of the coalition is in all social networks, the National Union, the parties, the UK – all of them are 500 euros for families... That's what we're fighting... And something else... Dear friends, stop sayings, get to work. You have enough votes in Parliament, you can vote for it today, even if Reir is against, even if he does not agree with you – you have enough votes! Number: at least 34 members of the opposition will vote for you. Add the UK, the Paristes, the National Association... probably some part of the Group's KPV LV will also vote... It's enough for you to... That's it. Well, the group YOUNG Unity maybe... so they vote as they want. Stop this – listen to our words, do not look at our works. So, dear Latvian society, there are enough votes in the Latvian Parliament to grant each family with children a €500 allowance. The coalition parties, those in power, say they're being disturbed by Reir. They're just taking you behind your nose. If they wanted to, this sitting... at the same sitting or... could make another extraordinary sitting today, and today you all have those benefits. That's the case of justice. The second question is about shops. You will now confirm their dibilism that pensioners have to stand in queues at shops – to stand out on the island? Really?Oh, no, no, no, I want to see all those who vote in favour – those who could be sent as candidates today, let us say, the Nobel Prize in debut - all the lists that will vote in favour. You say you don't have that analytical data... How did you make decisions all year? So that's it: well, let's figure out what else stupid can be accepted. Oh, there has not yet been such stupidity – people in the queue have not existed out when they have minus 15 degrees. That stupid thing could be accepted. Well, what other stupid thing? Well, before Christmas... Let's go to Christmas, shut up all the shops! If then mortality, morbidity, increases, we will not have to answer. That's a stupid decision, too, but for this coalition it's forehead. What else could you do so stupid? Well, let's not allow the hair to be cut, huh? It's kind of... We're going to go quietly somewhere. All there, as we see during the sitting of the Saeima, hairstyles are made, everything is – manic fingernails... It's all right – quietly, yeah. Let's go! After all, if we're going to such a record of stupidity, then – ahead! So let's do it. Then the data is... no. Well, what else would you do? Well, let's say something on Monday, but on Thursday, let's do something quite different. Such a typical politician's position – thinks one thing, speaks the other, does absolutely... third. Such a generation of bureaucrats, politicians, have grown up, who think that in this way everyone... And then they're gonna make a decision for serious faces, and they're gonna look... and the working groups... Council now to get out of that problem. A new strategic board will be set up, with some wise ministers. Stupendous ministers will not get in there. There will be some wise ministers, and then there will be experts again. And after it's on this board... in some strategic... It has been decided, then it will also be shown to the stupid ministers. I just have the question: how many wise ministers are in the Cabinet and how many percent are their stupid ministers? Perhaps, however, the problem is that we have a Prime Minister who does not know that he is Prime Minister, that he has to make decisions. And you support it all. You're not better than Karin, coalition. You are exactly the same. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, Complete pricks – all in a row! Everyone – the fighters of demographics, everyone – for a nation or something else. Words, but not works. And so it's all the time. Oh, 25 meters... 25 metres must be provided is – scientifically proven... Therefore – full buses, full of all buses! Not even there are more buses, not with longer working hours, but... On that principle, you do all this. Well, I thought... Dear Coalition, continue in exactly the same spirit every week! We will help you – maybe you could figure out something else. I think it's necessary to do this now so that it's still growing – that you can go in stores by age groups, the rest of you have to be out there. It would be one such move. Then you could figure out something else... either, for example, that vaccination should be limited to those who have received tax audits. You can come up with something like that. It's stupid, but it's in line with what you're doing all the time. And that going to school can't be those who can't sit at home... or something like... That's how you make decisions. And then with a serious face comes the thing from the UK – what reports on the draft decision... come and tell us how much this will help. How has it helped? Right for what? No, he did help... in one question, it has all helped: the public with every day... Also, your great fans with every day open more and more eyes to see what twigs you are. You are not in a position to manage the crisis. You don't even know how to manage anything. The only thing you know is... You know when something needs to be done... Some kind of otkati. That's what you're talking about. Policy as a form of commercial activity. Be in politics to steal. That's the only thing you can learn. But help people – no. There – according to the highest samples of stupidity. That is all that can be said about this coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U13	Name of Member Inga Goldberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U14	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Panic, lack of awareness of the situation, and unwise decisions are now describing government action in an emergency. I want to give just one example: the cry of despair following the government's decision of 5 February on education. And then I'll quote the news from several municipalities and schools. After a statement of February 2 that from February 8, the first two classes would begin training on the spot, we were all ready for it on Friday. Purchased products, all announced, work organized. And then followed the government's decision of 5 February – to postpone the training on the ground. The question arises: could a serious decision not be taken at least on Thursday? What happens to emergency communication? On Friday, the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers begins at 9 a.m. “Delfo” information appears at 13.16. Government press conference – 13.30, and there is also education area where the decision is not a priority. Pedagogues still run online hours, press conference watch no time. And then the stressful announcement begins – school administration, teachers, parents, municipalities, school canteens and carriers... And what about purchased products? You don't put them in food packs. The Minister of Science has recommended preparing lunch and going from house to house. In the region with about 200 students in the first two classes... rural municipality, educators in 10 parishes... Let's take portions (one portion – €1.42) in singles? And the Minister also announced that, starting on 8 February, there would be on-the-spot consultations for all students at risk of school drop-out. On-site consultations will only be possible at the request of the educator, ensuring that students do not meet with each other. Duration – 40 minutes. How will the teacher, who is currently working away from home, conduct individual consultations in person? This means that a teacher who has been working with classes at a distance for five, seven hours will have to go to school to meet one child for 40 minutes, then – one more... And now – about the student who lives in a remote field alone. He needs a lot of advice. In theory, to school in the city, provided that he is covered with online training, he can get by public transport in the morning, because the bus does not teach, and the teacher is busy. What's the point? It's about lunchtime to go home, there's no public bus. So people from more distant places ask – what is the opportunity to get consultations? Do industry professionals really live in a different reality?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This is what these people describe. I did not call the names of schools or municipalities consciously. Everyone is afraid: “Don’t listen – let’s close the school, let’s get out of work, the municipality won’t get any funding! And if not now, by ATR with disobedient municipalities let us be sure!” I have no advice on what and how to improve, because despite following the Cabinet of Ministers, the mysterious work in closed sittings creates misunderstandings in all. I hope that at least now an official will listen before preparing the current decisions and will analyse how they can be put into practice. And by the end. Colleagues, with this vote, we will, unfortunately, justify and accept these government decisions and actions. Colleagues, let us think about it before we vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U15	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U16	Colleagues! I understand that all people are tired of this uncertainty, the unpredictable situation. I understand that very well, but I think fatigue cannot affect the brain. It seems to me that the first task for men in government would, however, be to turn their minds on. In addition to emotions, each task should be dealt with in the Saeima. One is to continue or not to continue an emergency, an emergency. It is indeed the responsibility of the Saeima, and this decision should be taken exclusively by the Saeima. The rest is the responsibility of the Cabinet. And this must also be stated in any order and perhaps also in amendments to the relevant law. It is very important that we do not discuss those restrictions. The restrictions do not affect the spread of infection, but provide for restrictions on living conditions, and they are very far from common sense. In my view... I can't understand anything about those 25 meters. Will this also apply to minibuses with an area of less than 10 metres? To the carriage of small buses and trolleybuses, where its area is the same? Perhaps we will determine that the restrictions concern not only groups of products, articles, but also certain types and individual items? Why would it not be possible to buy, say, a table of more than two metres in length, because it would help to keep the two-metre distance in the transport process, and to limit the purchase of all goods of less than two metres in size, and so on? These absurditys can be imagined by an infinite number. But I do not see in this order any measures that would really be aimed at limiting the spread of infection. What does the government expect, say, in the field of vaccination? How are these processes organized? What groups are invited to apply for vaccination? Is the vaccine sufficient or insufficient as such or is the vaccination point insufficient? And so on, and so on. It is expected by humans, as it is the main way to limit the spread of infection and to reduce the disease as such. Here's the key. And so today, stirring everything into one pot, including those restrictions that have already entered into force, and without thinking about the consequences of introducing restrictions, it seems to me that this type of action is irresponsible. It's really irresponsible! It will continue, unfortunately, from week to week, from month to month. I think this is wrong. It not only sinks the reputation of the Saeima, it sinks all the state's equipment as such, because people don't believe in either the state's equipment or the state as not dealing with what is quite difficult to deal with, but it's possible to do it by turning common sense on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U17	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues. It's time for a break. Only registration of participants. It's been a success. Interruption until 3.30 p.m. Let's get back to the sitting after the break. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U18	Honourable Members! The second remote emergency session of February 11, 2021 on the draft decision “On Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of February 5, 2021 No. 74 amending Order of 6 November 2020 No. 655 ‘Proclaiming an emergency’. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U19	Good afternoon, honourable colleagues and the honourable leader of the Saeima sitting! Hello, Mr. Karin and Mr. Pavlut, if you hear me! But... I do not understand why the Minister for Health, who is from Development/Par! , today does not participate in our meeting, because it is Mr Pavļuta's signature that is in the government document... with the Prime Minister. Mr Pavilut could perhaps say a lot to us. For example, why in Latvia, after having had very strict restrictions for a month and a half, there was no reduction in the prevalence of the coronavirus, but, on the contrary, our country became the fifth land of the European Union in this gloomy table. Perhaps Paviluts could tell us why the mortality rate in Latvia in the annual section increased by 45 percent. Minister, in addition to the brave doctors and nurses who are currently on the front line, you... You're also responsible for hundreds... Ministry of Health and Health Inspection officials. What are they doing? Why did it become clear today that more than half of the employees tested in one production facility in Riga plywood are suffering from coronavirus? What is happening now in Latvia can only be called a disaster. It's not as loud a tragedy as Maxim's tragedy, which was seven years ago, but every two days more people die of the coronavirus in our country than in a broken supermarket. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Health, whose officials receive increased salaries on the basis of the emergency situation, does not provide the public and its representatives with reliable analytical information about the causes of the pandemic in Latvia, its localisation sites and the social groups affected by the coronavirus. In other words, we do not know what we are fighting with. In Latvia, it looks like bomb bomb bombing behind clouds or shooting from the corner, without seeing the enemy. Maybe we've all had the last time... and the Latvian Government needs to urgently address the World Health Organization with a request to send a special mission to our country to analyse the situation in Latvia and to draw up recommendations for timely stabilisation of the situation. Latvia is a member of this respected organisation. We invest properly in it and we are entitled to rely on the World Health Organisation's advice at a critical time. Obviously, NATO organization does not provide such assistance to us, but we do not meet NATO requirements... This year, in military editions... we have allocated more than EUR 700 million. This is much more than Latvia spent on combating the pandemic. But as often happens, the danger appeared unseen. I did not exaggerate, because what is happening in Latvia today is indeed threatening with catastrophic consequences for both the economy and what pomposis is called human capital. The Ministry of Economics has already corrected GDP forecasts this year, lowering them to only 3.5 percent in 2021. But I would call it an optimism because... Well, there's no... simply because sick people cannot produce GDP. The Latvian government is currently unable to reduce the rate of morbidity and mortality in our country. And that means we need to ask for help from international organisations. Otherwise it will be too late tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U20	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U21	Dear colleagues, I will also be happy to keep this topic – the government's inability to act. More, of course, we will also look at the question of Mr Kariņš' inability to see this strategic task and plan and work with the members of the government in such a way that the government does indeed have at least some effect in the fight against this plague. There's nothing going on. So far, it's really bad. And also what my colleagues already before the break... planted in front of him – this is the auction... with support for children, or not for children, or for elderly or children with disabilities... Everyone now comes out of their own package – members of the coalition, ministers – and thinks about different options for their proposal. It is the result of a press release, and each of us now promises more what kind of benefits it will make. Yes, we have prepared several options with colleagues – several options! For a strange reason, these options were not included in the draft law... At the second extraordinary sitting... together with this draft Decision... I know for this reason – most likely, the Bureau simply chooses what it sees and does not see. That is, of course. We had to get used to it already. Colleagues, those who are watching this Saeima sitting! You too, honorable society! The problem is that the opposition cannot, unfortunately, change the agenda in the Saeima, because the agenda is determined by the e-Parliament tool; we are all subject to what kind of documents in the e-Parliament, such documents we need to look at. And we can't change anything. Even if there were an emergency today... double. Colleagues! Once again, I call for this draft decision not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U22	Name to Member Edgar Tavar for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U23	Again. Colleagues! Indeed, about what we have submitted... our family support proposals already presented in the Saeima, with support for children... and not just... I really hope that we will decide at the next sitting whenever possible. They are submitted to the Saeima. To accept it, we only have to press each key... take one click with your mouse. But that's not what I applied for again. In connection with the same draft order of the Cabinet of Ministers, the information report on priority groups of persons to be vaccinated was approved in parallel to Tuesday government, where it was clearly and unambiguously stated that the first group is healthcare workers, those who are already partially... has already received the largest court vaccine – medical persons, family doctors, outpatients and so on. Okay, it's okay, logical. The second priority group to be vaccinated is employees and clients of long-term social care centres – logically! – and officials who need vaccination to ensure national security and continuity of national activities. It seems logical, but there is a question why, for example, Rihards Kols, the Head of the Foreign Affairs Commission, is present in this group today. Is he an official who ensures national security and continuity of state activities? Colleagues, what do I mean by that? It's not that someone gets the vaccine... that he would or wouldn't have to... I would like to say this: if on Tuesday the Cabinet accepts a document, an information report, and this is violated already this same week, then what will happen with these orders of the Cabinet that we are voting on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U24	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U25	Good afternoon for all those who are not tired of following this sitting! As for children, we now see that all this government's actions are as one big, very expensive and irresponsible... kindergarten. We have just received an answer to our question to Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš “On the validity of decisions made by your government regarding the suppression of Covid-19 disease”, in which we asked specific questions about specific restrictions imposed by his government. That is question No. 168/J13 Everyone can enter the Saeima's website at Saeima.lv in the legislative database and, if you click on the questions and find the 168th question, you can read both these questions and the answers given. This demonstrates the thinking of this government, the failure of this government and the inability at all to see things systemically. This is the thinking of the Excel table, which they demonstrate by their decisions, including by this decision. That is, it is similar to what we have seen in the budget. Well, if we change an amount in the budget line, we raise the tax upwards, then, proportionately, we will get more tax revenue. It is exactly the same thing, completely riddled from reality, that Excel's thinking for them is now also with regard to these measures which they are introducing against the co-heavy. They think that if they impose more restrictions at some place, then the effect on the risks of infection will be the same – they will be reduced proportionally. I'm going to give you an answer to one of the questions we had asked about why you can't buy... parents cannot buy clothing for a growing child; why are these restrictions imposed; why alcohol can be bought and children can't wear clothing. ‘ In response to that question, it must be noted that the abovementioned restriction fulfils the purpose of the decision to reduce the duration and frequency of the stay of the visitors at the point of sale in order to limit the risk of the Covid-19 infection spreading to public places, and in the short term it must be considered to be reasonable, proportionate and justified.’ It would be good to see where it is based, what it is proportionate, and where it is thought out. Unfortunately, we do not know this; it is not known by society as a whole. And that's a problem with communication. It is said: Well, the government – they're already beatings, they're trying, but for them, see, only problems with communication. No, they have no problem with communication! There's as much money for communication as it's never been. There they could publish it all so that we... that even from the refrigerator, the iron would tell us how well - thoughtfully and wisely the government is doing all this. The problem is that there is no need to communicate – there is no sense for the government about what they decide. I would therefore like to ask for answers to these questions. 168, on which we will also have a request... about what... We're going through... They could now sign up, and the foolishness was written, but our request will be, and this request will have to be answered in concrete terms, and the answers cannot be avoided. This is already the main problem that there is no justification. And finally... When we get these questions, this revelation has suddenly gone to the head of government Krišjānis Kariņš that we decide on the dull, not to understand at all what we are deciding, removing one aspect from the overall context, completing it and thinking that if we now impose bans, it will work and not understand that this system is... it has several factors at the same time that need to be analysed and, by reducing one factor, you achieve an increase in other factors that will give you more... the opposite effect. The result is that, as I said at the very beginning of this plague, the government, with its decisions, is the main cause of this plague, or the biggest distributor. If someone in the coalition says that this is not the case, please come and justify these decisions that you are now calling for “to the blind”. I understand the displeasure of their individual coalition partners... and possibly the initiative they want to show that government meetings should be open to all subjects related to the community. And I think that this is a very correct direction in which to move, because then perhaps both the public and we, when we decide here, could understand the reasons for this. It may be that the government has really done everything so cleverly; they simply don't know how to explain, and so they don't tell us anything. But in this way, we could hear all this wise, thought - out reasoning, and we would see that these decisions are truly sound, reasonable, and reasonable, and could be made responsibly. Or it would be quite the opposite, and then the illusions about this government would be lost to society as a whole. And perhaps, in fighting one plague, we would be rid of a completely different plague, much more dangerous for the Latvian people and this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U26	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U27	Hello, dear colleagues! Well, this is the case when the right hand doesn't know what the left does. And the orders of the Cabinet of Ministers that they issue every week (after that we seem to try something... to express their views, not to correct them), also as they do not work for the benefit of society. I also do not understand what this requirement means – 25 meters if there are 50 people in the trolleybus (especially in the morning and during the evening). If 25 metres were to be observed, it would mean that only three people can drive on a trolley or on a bus. But three people to carry – it means to consume much more energy than paid for tickets. It's not good. In general, we need to make public transport hard. What are we going to do with small shops that are actually supported by one family alone? It's almost 25 meters, maybe... even – together with the warehouse... So we're making it? Well, that family, too... die – from hunger. Because it's going to leave the benefit they're going to get – it's going to take them only one week, and it's going to take them all. And then what will they eat for three months? Nothing. And if they have children... According to a report by the Cabinet of Ministers... we have the data here that, since 6 December 2020, we have already been among the five worst countries of the European Union. We're still there. It's been two and a half months. Maybe we're acting wrong somewhere? Why can't we also hold a competition? If, for example, national teams, national professional teams can organise... They're heading all over Europe. They use airports – one, one, the other, maybe the third airport. Aeroplanes used. And it's okay that 48 hours ago they had a negative test, but 48 hours ago there's a lot to change. That is also the fact. We ourselves now have a very good, beautiful winter. Sport helps to strengthen health not only for athletes, but for all residents of Latvia. And people are happy to use it. Look, for example, at a row of holidays standing on ski rental to get skis, because buying can't buy their skis because shops are banned. Why? In fact, it is necessary to open sports shops because not only clothes can be bought there, but also inventory. But you can't. Of course, I call for all the rules to be observed. One, two, or three people can enter the store so that they can choose goods and pay for them, and then the next ones go in. This can be addressed. There you can also extend the working day, not work the short day to just earn money. Give them a chance! Also, for example, organising competitions... I am President of the Latvian Sports Veterans Union. We want to organize a ski competition in March. Yes, there can be 100 people in any city of Latvia on an equipped ski track, but there can't be a race. What's the difference? Explain to me. I don't understand why, as a sportsman. I'm taking my skis, I'm running in one direction, and I'm having an automatic system that takes time right away. If I then get a medal, then access to the table, get a medal and leave. If you don't have a race, you can come to a ski track, run, for example, at the Biķernieki track or somewhere else... take the skis and run. You can. Let us now be wise! The sports sub-commission needs to take the job and also take its decision or issue the task to both the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Education and Science in order to act. Why can't children train in sports schools, but all go to kindergartens? Pre-school institutions work. So where's the difference? Children don't get sick. Of course, the smallest are not sick, but yet... Thank you for your attention. A Fraction cannot support this order. I, too, cannot support this order, and I am abstaining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U28	Name to Member Armand Kraus. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U29	Thank you. Hello! I'll... I would, of course, like to criticise again. I hope that at some point I will be able to praise the decisions made by the government and also the documents they have sent to the Saeima, but this time unfortunately this does not happen. The first thing I want to talk about is entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs and shops. Now again we (the Latvian State) have prepared... The government has prepared a draft decision on behalf of us, which is completely discriminatory towards economic operators. We discriminate against small shops, such as some clothing shops. They must not work, we do not allow them to operate, even though they could comply with the same epidemiological conditions as in large shops. Have we even wondered how people can now buy clothing? How many times... Is that so?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. If it is ordered via the Internet, comes to you and you do not need it, you send back. Hairdresser. You still can't work hairdressers. I saw Member Zarins very funny today cut his hair, but, Ivar, you've taken money for one hairdresser for one lunch, which this hairdresser will not be able to eat and take home to children. Well, I hope I'll wait for the time I can go to the hairdresser. So... so I can support... Another misconception, a total misconception, is prohibited training, sports. And in this regard, I would like to say here that we had a sub-committee on Crafts and Small Business and there were both representatives of the opposition and members of the coalition, and we pointed out many misunderstandings. I hope that colleagues here too, for example from the New Conservative Party, will say something, because what we talked about in this committee was very logical and understandable and was mentioned, for example, in tennis training. What is the opportunity for a large tennis hall, where two people play tennis, come into contact and become infected with a community? This possibility is thousands of times smaller than in public transport, where everyone comes in, where there is close to each other during the journey, where God knows the masks of some – clean, dirty. The ministerial official who had come to this sub-commission said: public transport is not long drived, there is only 15 minutes drive, but tennis hall – yes, there is a long play, and then they definitely come together in the dressing room. Well, that's crazy! You may not dress at all, and you may also have your own dressing room for everyone. And I'll say, it's an official who doesn't understand that in Latvia, public transport is going between cities and people sitting on intercity buses for one and a half hours, for two hours, maybe two and a half hours and even three hours. It's not 15 minutes. And there's a mask there, so the air is stirred on circles, and the possibilities of infection are much bigger than playing tennis. This is one of the very good examples I think we discussed in the sub- commission. And I don't understand how these coalition working groups can come together and just don't see elementary things and make such illogical decisions! For children at school. Well, have you found out how much food has now been thrown out, which was bought to prepare the students for lunch? I do not think that all the food could be put in the food packages that are now given to children, because there were certainly fresh fruits, vegetables and so on. More. That, by the way, has also been said to us from the coalition Members in that sub-committee - that open government meetings have been requested. The coalition partners themselves... Some believe that this should be the case. So what are you late for? What is secret there, what is there that the coalition cannot express to the public? What is involved in national secrecy? Why can the sittings of the Cabinet of Ministers, when deciding on restrictions to be determined by the community, not be opened? They can be completely exposed, because all over the world... we are all fighting this disease. The world exchanges... Governments and epidemiologists exchange their experience to do so better and more effectively. The Latvian government – something quiet. Somehow, we are not telling anyone how we fight, because we have some secret form, the secret weapon by which we will complete that community, and we do not want to reveal it to anyone. That's what it may be? Come on, come on! What's the secret weapon? The secret weapon may be that people cannot buy shoes, they will soon walk with bare feet through boots, and they will become ill by standing in long rows at shops. So make sense! Beware of what you are doing there in the government, and ensure open sittings so that the public can follow. And I would also recommend that you sabotage not a few individual officials, chosen, but the entire government, so that the government can come and sit in the building of the Cabinet on Brīvības Street and take decisions while working on the spot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U30	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U31	Dear colleagues, In brief, we see that for several months now the government has come up with new and new approaches, new and new restrictions. Some previous restrictions have been partly removed, others are replaced, and so on. We are hearing here almost every week a report on what new approaches, what new restrictions are inventive, for which the government is asking for approval on a regular basis. But the dry balance of all this is that, despite all the government's imaginary limitations, the number of infected every day... does not fall in particular. Hospital burden with covids is not reduced either. In other words, the dry balance for this moment is that whatever government plans and tries to do in recent months, it has no significant, tangible effect. Here, some coalition colleagues, I think, believe that the government has an unlimited number of such attempts; that every week the government can come up with something new and new, and that we will come here every week and listen to new government ideas, either on a square metre or on what can be bought, which cannot be bought in stores, and so on. However, in their view, these colleagues are very wrong, because with every such new attempt by the government, this government is becoming an ever-increasing object of ridicule. What is happening is that people lose any hope that the government is able to come up with effective solutions. People start laughing at what comes from government – about decisions and ideas. It's very characteristic that... Colleagues, I do not know if you saw yesterday the joint press conference organised by the two highest officials of the state – the President of Latvia and the Prime Minister. After another talk, questions were asked. How many questions did the media ask? One! Even to the public media, even journalists, there was no question, in fact, about these new government fictions that... is a strategic board or another new council... and so on. Therefore, colleagues, you are increasingly in a situation where it is pointless to come up with new laws or amendments to regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, because people no longer perceive – no longer perceive! - that's serious. People are more and more... We see that citizens are no longer prepared to comply with laws and regulations. And this is the worst thing that can happen – that people are losing hope, the belief that government, public administration is working at all. So you don't have so much time, colleagues! I invite you to think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U32	The name of Member Regina Lochmele for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U33	Yes, I understand that the possibilities of opposition to influence any government decision on combating the pandemic are still limited, even more so – we have been denied this opportunity. We can only speak, address you, ask you, appeal to your mind, to your brain, as Mr Dolgopolov said very rightly today. Therefore, I have a question for you right away – a question for the future, a question for the future. Tell me, please, is the government... Is the Ministry of Health already thinking and planning to take action to answer the question of how long the current vaccine will affect the health of a particular individual? That is, if we are now vaccinating the people of Latvia, what is the duration of this pot? One year? Is it a pot similar to an influenza vaccine? And is there a plan in place – what happens after this vaccine is finished? Is that something that anyone thinks about? Are there any answers to this question right now? Are these data not available or are these data not available in the world at all? And above all. I call on both Mr Kola and Mrs Beitnere-Le Galla and Mrs Lībiņa-Egnere to remember that the Saeima Member is responsible for refusing an immoral offer to vaccinate before the people of the nursing homes and, for example, the diabetic patients, who are at a much higher risk of dying than you, ladies and gentlemen, have been vaccinated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U34	The name of the Member, Ilze Indrickson. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U35	Hello, colleagues! This draft decision covers both a number of good things... In my opinion, travel restrictions have long been necessary and are to be supported. However, this draft amendment to the Cabinet Order... This draft decision caused me to have the most controversial feeling at the moment when I realized that small traders, small entrepreneurs, who literally also hold the life of the historic centres of cities, are actually being wiped out because their priority is over. The most important thing in the eyes of the government is to make everything look some better, and allowing supermarkets to sell certain groups of goods that were not allowed to be marketed until now, but which, at the same time, discriminate against small traders... it is a clear signal that competition is not important and someone can sell his product. But at the same time, for example, the same children's goods shops, which have winter shoes, clothing and can't work on the spot... and hardly any parents will order remotely... and then a seller will go... and he will not be able to use it anymore... It's a reality – these shops don't work! They will then be able to put their product in the attic of time and expect that maybe after the season sometime, sometime... will be able to trade in the following winter. In my opinion, this is, frankly, the most pointless decision of all those who have recently made a decision in relation to restrictions. And not because there is a part of it, but because there has been a great deal of inequality. Moreover, although in each case such inequalities would have to come against aid that is directly targeted at those who are limited (in this case, small shops that are actually closed and not operating in any mode, even remotely or on orders), there is no additional aid. In my opinion, it must be aid without additional conditions – just like hotels... or, for square metres of the shop, to cover at least the rental costs. Without any additional criteria, because these shops... in reality they are placed in a much worse position than Rimi and Maxima. In fact, looking at these results, how it works... is that people will now go and buy everything they need in supermarkets, will stand in these, of course. But no one could convince me at any time that there is a greater chance of getting infected in a small store where perhaps only one or two buyers enter at the same time than in the supermarkets Maxima and Rimi. Unfortunately, I will not be able to amend this order... support this draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U36	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U37	Yeah, Ilze touched... has shown one prominent example of how much ‘thought’ this government makes decisions and how ‘competent’ it is actually the government that is the biggest contributor to the proliferation of this community with its own decisions. That is, with these restrictions. Finally, the government has understood that there are certain groups of goods without which society cannot function normally, and that, in fact, the ban on marketing them does not reduce the prevalence of the community, but will promote it, because when people are under stress, immunity suffers, and they become more vulnerable to this plague. What did the government do? Do you remember the statement by the Minister for Economic Affairs? He's... So – the government permits from the outset to sell these goods only in separate stores, which people really need, and then warns people: “Only please don’t run all of these stores to prevent this congestion!” But, Johaidi, let these goods be sold in all stores. Why have you imposed a ban that you can do in some shops, in others – can't? If you distributed this stream of buyers to a larger area, to several shops, then there would also be less of this congestion. So when I talk about government, I want to repeat this legendary saying to everyone: “Children, learn physics!” This also applies to you, the respected government, – try to learn physics! And first of all, it means thinking systemically, otherwise... Your decisions show not only incompetentness, but also possible risks of corruption, because corruption has no better soil than this – from the beginning, entrepreneurs are driven into their existence in impossible conditions and then wait for whom to create a system of relief. And, as we see, some have succeeded. Not with some. A substance for thought...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U38	I closed the debate. Is there anything else to be added on behalf of the Commission? Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U39	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues! On behalf of the Commission, I would like to add a few things. Firstly, on the decision-making procedure in the Commission, which is a completely public sitting, which is now also available on the website of the Saeima on the Internet. Those Members who have not been able to come – I would also invite them to come to understand how decisions are being taken, directly heard and directly heard. I invite you to watch the repetition of the record, you can do it, it is absolutely available. I'll do it again. Experts come to the Commission... Mr. Perevosčikova – with a specific presentation showing objective empirical data on disease curves and also on the impact of restrictions on all of them. And I would like to say that yes, since the New Year has succeeded... as these specialists – inectologists – have explained to us, since New Year we have managed to stabilise this curve of growth. For those who say that these restrictions are not working, well, there's such speculation because we can't know what these curves would be without these restrictions, and clearly to say that it doesn't work, we can't, because there have also been reductions. And, as the Infectologists tell us, this does not decrease... Even faster... rather shows people's attitude to compliance with these restrictions. And that is why the situation has only stabilised at the moment and the government has not taken risks even further to ease the existing restrictions. Listening to the ministries, too... Of course, the Ministry of Economics has seen the sectors most affected... And we also listen to representatives of the Subordination Authority of the Ministry of Finance – State Revenue Service – on what support has been paid, and on what plans and forecasts for both these benefit applicants and about... future projections of possible scenarios for the prevalence of this infection, as well as what is happening with economic support measures. On the strategic management board, very briefly. The social partners are currently present to government representatives. And the idea is to look for common solutions to make trade more open – to open sport, to open beauty services by common agreement. Work on easing is ongoing. So, thank you, colleagues, for this debate. I would like to call again... for all those who have doubts about how decisions are made... whether we really accept them on a blind basis or on the basis of emotions, as some opposition representatives do. I would say that we cannot afford to be guided only by emotions; we must also be guided by objective data. Thank you, colleagues. I invite you to support the draft decision prepared by the Commission on support for the extension of the emergency situation and the announced amendments to the Emergency Order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2192-U40	Thank you, Mr Rancan, for your clarification of the debate. Colleagues! We will vote on the draft decision “On Cabinet of Ministers Order of 5 February 2021 No. 74 amending Order of 6 November 2020 No. 655 “Advertising the Emergency”! Please, let's vote! For - 53, for - 8, for - 16. Decision adopted. Honourable Members! We have therefore examined the agenda for the second remote emergency session on 11 February. Registration of Members' presence. It's over. See you in 15 minutes.
