ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! We shall continue work on the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2022, 2023 and 2024, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U2	Proposal 187... Good morning, Madam President. Good morning, all my colleagues! 187. – Budget and financial (tax) commission proposal. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U3	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Juris Jušas.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U4	Good morning, honourable colleagues! Dear colleagues, If necessary, please combine the time of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U5	No, either unite or not.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U6	Merge.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U7	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U8	Within the framework of the budget adjustment, the proposal has been designed to support a national initiative aimed at restoring the armed resistance movements of Latvia's national partisans to one of the best symbols of Latvia - Stompaku national partisan settlement. A grandiose fortified settlement was formed in the Stompaku bog. It was the biggest in the whole of the Baltics. At the time, however, it was a whole town, a fortress. Armed foreheads, 24 landscapings, horse stables, a food store, even a bakery and a church. There were about 350 partisans, including women and children, in the Stompaku bog settlement. On March 2, 1945, the largest national partisan battle with NKVD troops in the Baltic States took place in Stompauk, and 28 national partisans fell in this battle, while the opponents lost 46 people. Colleagues! I would remind you that on 16 June this year, we voted and supported the proposal to make March 2 as the day of the national partisan resistance to the armed resistance. The next step that we should take in honouring the memory of the national partisans is to rebuild the camp in full, making it a unique tourist destination at the Baltic and Nordic levels. The total necessary funding for the renovation of the Stompaku national partisan settlement is about 750 thousand euros. If it is not possible at the moment to provide all the necessary funding for the reconstruction of the settlement, then at least something should start. The funding referred to in the proposal will be an opportunity to re-establish part of the overall design of the project. Colleagues, please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U9	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U10	Good morning, colleagues! I will be strongly opposed to the support of this proposal and will explain why. We are working on the national budget for next year. I ask you to take a look at the figures, as well as the proposals that follow this proposal, in particular the 189, 190 and 200 proposals. My colleague Inga Goldberga's proposals were not supported, although the renewal of the Daugavpils hospital radiation therapy facility and the acquisition of a multifunctional angiography facility were required there. You don't think about living people, you want to rebuild the Partisan Camp in Stompaku bog. One bunker... The cost of two bunkers is estimated at 85,000. Yes, it is, Mr. Jurash said just now that... Please bring me together the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U11	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U12	Thank you. Mr. Jušas just said that, according to their estimates, we do not understand who they are? -The entire camp renewal is 750 thousand euros. According to my estimates, if you vote right away for a release of 85 000 for the renewal of two bunkers, the cost of this camp will be over one million euros. And now I just ask you to think about it, because it is only about money and not about history - could the reconstruction of the partisan camp really cost such a sum? I would also like to see an estimate of the restoration of two underground bunkers, because they were not any stone bunkers. You could try to convince me that I don't know history, I don't know what... but I know excellently all this history, but I do not believe in these estimates and I will never vote in favour of distributing such money without allocating it to the restoration and purchase of medical equipment to save human lives. Please do not support this proposal, because the previous partisan path about its dividends was excellently restored by “Latvian State Forests”. Somehow I do not believe that this year there will be no dividends for “State Forests of Latvia”, for which they could not repair two underground bunkers with wooden walls with their materials... In particular, with wood, you know what happened in our country at the border when great trees were cut, which could be used in Latgale, to rebuild two partisan camps...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U13	Thank you, thank you. I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U14	In the Commission, proposal 187 was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U15	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 187. - The proposal submitted by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please, let's vote! There's no problem with - 52, against - 5, abstaining. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U16	188. - a proposal from Members Puce, Latkovska, Jušas and Indricksons. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U17	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U18	189. - Ms Goldberg's proposal, which provides for the transfer of funds from unforeseen events to municipalities. This is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U19	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inga Goldberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U20	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, The proposal, which provides for funding for the modernisation of radiation therapy equipment at Daugavpils Regional Hospital, does not provide for the purchase of new equipment, but for the replacement of all basic spare parts and the renewal of specialised software. The proposal was made at the request of the hospital on the basis of the priorities set by the hospital and discussed and supported by the working group of the Ministry of Health on ensuring the rational availability of effective and safe medical technologies. The aid from the Working Party of the Ministry of Health for the purchase of a new installation is, however, not clear when this could happen. Funding would exceed several million and cannot be expected in the near future. However, in order to continue providing services, it is necessary to prevent any interruptions that threaten the continuity of the provision of emergency medical or specialised oncological assistance. Currently, a linear accelerator has been used in the hospital, which has been very intensively operated for more than 12 years. And here's also the emotional chapter. In support of this proposal, we also support the entire Daugavpils hospital collective and perhaps motivate not only the day-to-day work in very difficult circumstances, but also promote confidence in government decisions. Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U21	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U22	Yeah, thank you. Good morning, colleagues! I will support this proposal and I would like to make it clear that, when looking at this and the next proposal, and also the forthcoming proposal, the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has unfortunately not supported this proposal, and also the next one, which concerns the resolution of health and health problems, but has supported a proposal that is intended to invest close to a million euros in construction, in repair. Saucas “Investment in the Reconstruction of Station Street Stages”. I'm not saying that the station section should not be rebuilt, I'm just saying that if there's no people, healthy people, then there's no one to walk through those alleys. I believe that it would be right in this case to support health-related proposals and the allocation of money rather than to invest additional resources in infrastructure which is not a first-needed infrastructure and which does not ensure that there will be people who will be able to walk along this road and the alley in the future. These are priorities which are supported or not by Members of the Saeima. This time you would support this proposal to save life. Indeed, saving life is more important for people than building or repairing an alley, road repairs in an alley. Please support this proposal, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U23	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U24	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues, and the honourable Chairman of the Saeima. Yes, this proposal is indeed a story of priorities. Is human health a priority, which in this case is being named worldwide, and in Latvia too, do officials seem to speak formally about it? Are these other measures, such as small playgrounds in a particular city that are linked to a particular coalition party? It's a story about priorities. Are these people who need to help, or are they your estimates of some specific, special political action? In any case, it is not the work of political craftsmen to help people. Of course, the city of Daugavpils... It is also a story about oncology, support for oncology, implementation of the oncology plan, which we debated yesterday very long, and yet you have not heard the needs of people. It is a story that Daugavpils has already been given medical assistance, people have been addressed - not only volunteers, but also students. This is a story, to be honest, of you as a citizen of power and of your attitude towards a border city, which is also very different from the way in which our neighbour Estonia sees, for example, the border city of Narva, which invests in fixed assets, big public resources and also a positive attitude, regardless of the composition of the population in that city. We should also learn political lessons from our colleagues in Estonia and support Daugavpils as a border city, realizing that it is the security of our Latvian state, also in terms of people's attitude towards our country. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U25	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U26	Good morning, very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I, too, call for this proposal to be supported. I think that the approach and the proposal that Mrs Goldberg has put forward in consultation with, most probably, Daugavpils City Council and the hospital are the right one. I do not see any reason why this, compared with the other proposals that we supported very briefly, should not be supported, because this really has been presented with a view to improving the health situation in a particular hospital, where we have listened to this data yesterday, how much per capita is invested in Daugavpils and how much is invested in Riga - the difference was twice. More than twice. In my opinion, in the circumstances that Daugavpils is the only oncology hospital that is doing something in this area in the region... For us in Latvia, such things happen in three cities - in Riga, Liepaja, Daugavpils. In my opinion, it is quite normal that we, if there is such a need... Okay, maybe it seems unacceptable that this is happening in the budget in a way that very much resembles so-called budgetary quotas. But colleagues, this budget allocates more than two million into the budget budget, and one could even say more - at three million euros. And on that background we can't find... I think it is very important for a very important question to be raised in Daugavpils hospital, as Mrs Goldberg has already said, it is important for a collective, it is important for the hospital microclimate in general, for the development of the hospital. In my opinion, colleagues, this would be a welcome proposal. For my part, I also call for its support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U27	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U28	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I ask you to combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U29	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U30	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am not, of course, a medical doctor, I do not know much about Daugavpils Hospital, except that in this hospital today is one of the most difficult situations in the country, there is a lack of personnel, there are dying people. This hospital is crowded with community sufferers, which means that all citizens of Daugavpils and probably also the surrounding regions cannot receive and will not be able to receive scheduled medical assistance for some time, and their diseases will certainly be allowed, all of which will be postponed for some time. What I know is that a representative of the Ministry of Health - the parliamentary secretary, Ilmārs Dūritis - who, I know, is participating in this sitting and is his direct duty of work, does not consider it necessary to answer questions concerning this proposal as regards what is happening or is not happening in Daugavpils hospital, or such facilities are necessary or not needed for Daugavpils hospital. If the Ministry of Health considers that they are not necessary, then why not. This means that Mr Dūreis, along with many other, almost all of the parliamentary secretaries, with the exception of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, is simply not doing their job today or yesterday in all these days, and is not fulfilling his duties. What I also know is when the government decided to allocate EUR 86 million to hospitals in Latvia in the fight against the community, then, I know that more than one million euro was allocated to Daugavpils Hospital, and four million euros to Rezekne Hospital. Why such mathematics? Because if we count on one person, it happens that the Ministry of Health gave 151 euros per inhabitants of Rezekne, 14 euros per inhabitants of Daugavpils, or 10 times less. Why such a situation in Daugavpils that, in the opinion of the Ministry of Health, it needed four times less than Rezekne and several times less than the state? Could the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Health explain? That would be his direct duty today. I hope you will still find the courage to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U31	The name of Member Janina Yalinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U32	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues. Yes, Inga Goldberga has really made a very good proposal. And this radiation therapy equipment is not new. As she said, this is a replacement of the spare parts and also a renewal of the specialised programme. But I would like to remind you once again, which colleagues have also reminded you that a regional hospital serves a very large region, especially oncology - the entire Latgale, but let us remember that in the adjacent regions, its hospitals are not on the same level as the Daugavpils regional hospital, because it still performs the functions of a regional hospital. And do not support this proposal... To be honest, I will perhaps be emotional, but it is very, very bad, because the so-called parliamentary quotas have supported many children's playgrounds and so on, knowing well what the situation is today in oncology, how many people suffer from oncology diseases, even more so, and today people die. Do not support Daugavpils regional hospital, friends, it is very bad. I call on the Members elected from Latgale, in particular from Daugavpils, to vote in favour of this proposal. Not to abstain, but to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U33	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U34	Good afternoon, everybody! Yes, in my opinion, this proposal to help the Daugavpils hospital is, in fact, very important and very significant for people living in Latgale. And the Saeima's vote on this will also be very significant, it will give you to a large extent an answer why people in Latgale do not feel part of this country and do not believe in this power, because power has created it with its attitude. Not because these people are bad or wrong, but because the power has created this situation with its actions, because it needs the fragmentation of this society, this alienation, so that one part of society is offended, the other is afraid, and in this way, the principle of "distribution and rule" can continue to be in power. And it's okay that it's going to take human lives. The most important thing is to implement this policy and to remain in power. And if you do not support this proposal today, do not ask any more questions why people in Latgale do not believe you. I think it is not only a matter of concern for human health, human lives, but also of the security of our country and the integrity of our country, especially if we are talking about what is happening at our borders, at the borders, at which we will probably soon be waiting for very dramatic events. In my opinion, it will be very short-sighted, unthinking, selfish if such a proposal is not supported. I call on the authorities to think about what you are doing, because you will give a very clear signal to many people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U35	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U36	Well, if we look at what is going on in Latgale, then these are cultural events, certainly some infrastructure measures are important. I am currently talking about the so-called parliamentary quotas. In fact, quite a large amount is being diverted if we look at the whole, from Members' quotas for Latgale, but whether it is what is most important for Latgale at the moment, given the situation in Daugavpils, where this polyclinic was also closed some time ago, I do not know, perhaps it is already being opened, but what was terrible was that it was closed. Colleagues, Parliamentary Secretary, Mr Dūritis, if you have any other solutions to address this problem, please come in the debate, because it seems now that the children's playgrounds are ready to support, but the oncology patients are not ready to organise the radiation device. Well, it's not really normal, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U37	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U38	Thank you. Madam President, Colleagues and colleagues! A few days ago we celebrated 103. The anniversary of Latvia's state independence. Hundred third. And still in your decisions, including those of Members, you pay more attention to the memory of the dead and the dead than you give additional funding to the living so that people can live. What is more important to you - the memory or yet the lives of those people, including Latgale, including Daugavpils, as a border state, and to support their lives or their right to life? 103 years, 30 - in our time. What is more important to us: living people or the dead? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U39	Name to Member Ivan Ribakov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U40	Hello, honorary Saeima!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U41	Mr. Ribakow, we don't see you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U42	Okay. I don't know where it's going? Okay, then I'll try later.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U43	Maybe you can try again, Mr. Ribakow, to connect. Yeah, see, it's okay. Name to Member Ivan Ribakov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U44	Hello, honorary Saeima! For the first time, we have been looking at the draft budget for almost two weeks now. There was a holiday in the middle, and it was possible to meet people in Latgale. I find it hard to answer the questions I'm asked. Of course, I will now ask for support for this proposal, but I would like to make a few sentences in general. In general, people asked me: “Mr Ribakov, what is happening in Latvia? What's going on in the Saeima? Why is the government, the ruling coalition, sharing our taxpayers' money so unfair?” I have no answer. That's... I can't understand what's going on? Of course, there was the second question: "How will you vote on the budget in general - for three years and for 2022?" Of course, I and my colleagues will not support these draft laws. Now I am asking for support at least for this Inga proposal. Thank you. Nice...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U45	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U46	The 189 proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U47	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 189. - Mrs Goldberg's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 34, for - 44, for - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U48	190. - Mrs Goldberg's proposal, too. Associated with, let us say, targeted grants to municipalities, and its targeted grants to municipalities are for Daugavpils regional hospital. Funds would come from unforeseen events. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission did not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U49	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Inga Goldberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U50	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, This is also the case with this proposal, which provides for funding for the modernisation of an angiography facilities in Daugavpils regional hospital. The proposal also provides for the renewal of the replacement of all basic spare parts and specialised programmes rather than the purchase of new equipment. For this facility too, the hospital has chosen to adopt such a modest approach. The facility covered by this proposal has been used in the hospital since 2006. The modernization of the equipment will allow us to continue to provide quality services and laboratory services 24 hours a day - what the hospital just recently started to do. I would like to quote Dennis Vassiliev, the director of education and science at Daugavpils Regional Hospital: “We perform 1,000 operations a year, which corresponds to a major European centre of invasive cardiology, and one angiograph is dangerous, because an angiographer is a high-tech machine that cannot be repaired immediately in the event of damage. Because of the supply of serious, expensive parts, the damage is usually repaired at least after three or four days. Overall, it lasts for about a week. This means that care is interrupted in acute patients with a heart attack and stroke.’ I very much hope for your support: if you do not support this proposal, at least pay attention to the situation in regional hospitals. Finally, of course, it is sad that the coalition's priorities in Latgale are the territory of the church and the parking place at the cemetery. But it must be logical: if we do not support treatment, then we must support churches and cemetery. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U51	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U52	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! Yes, this proposal shows that... Mr. Durishi, maybe you can answer, even if you're brief... demonstrate that there are no plans or tactics for the development of the hospital network in Latvia. We see that very important and yes, we also need to recognise that the necessary financial resources are invested in hospitals of Riga University, where we buy new equipment, but here, in a city of national importance, people, professionals, talk about perhaps long served replacement of technical parts. In the 21st century, 30 years after the restoration of Latvia's state independence, people who are located quite far from Riga are asking for support to change the details of medical equipment. Mr Dūris, I ask for an answer: when will Daugavpils Hospital receive support and be able to purchase new facilities? Yes, we have already heard about this situation in the press and in the media. At this point in time, really, by supporting the city's request, to help their people, especially when the medical and health sector has been recognised as a priority in Latvia, to help to support this proposal to change the details of the technique that has perhaps already served itself... Replace Details... In the 30 years of independence, human care has not become the most important thing - even when the health sector is a priority. Support this proposal, and then the memory sites of the dead will also be able to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U53	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U54	Colleagues, this proposal also concerns the provision of health services. You see that it is important not only to support the cleaning of parks, roads, alleys, memorial sites, but above all, and above all to support the improvement and safety of human health, and the right to receive timely and high-quality medical services. As we can see, the state is unable to provide it, at least the state is unable to provide it qualitatively and in a timely manner in the city of Latgale in Daugavpils. But Members from the position are very safe, very generously allocating Members' quotas: two million other measures - construction, improvement, luminaires, children's playgrounds. But if people die and die from the fact that life is also poor, because they cannot turn to doctors, who will walk on those roads? In what state of health will there be those who, I am sorry, will sit in the parks or perhaps drive on the roads that you intend to re-allocate and provide with future parliamentary quotas. This is not a politically correct choice. The choice must be based on ensuring the health of the population, and this proposal specifically provides for the possibility of saving lives. I will vote in favour of saving lives. And how will you vote, colleagues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U55	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U56	Colleagues, given that the Minister of Finance has not found time to join - at least at this moment - this meeting and the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Health, Mr Duriša, does not also consider it necessary to take part in this debate, I will give you a little to our Minister of Finance. He has expressed his conviction that Members of the Saeima have a duty and a right not only to vote in favour of the budget, but also to submit proposals that are being examined by the Budget and Financial (Financial) Commission. He also added that at the coalition cooperation meeting, the parties agreed that the final decision would be adopted by the Saeima. So, colleagues, everything is in our hands. And here's the most interesting thing. The Minister of Finance feels that the proposals from the cooperation partners are fiscally neutral, which means that no future tax or budgetary consolidation will be required. These proposals have been debated and considered and each Member takes responsibility for them. Colleagues, with these texts, our finance minister clearly and clearly says that this proposal can be voted on, it is our joint responsibility. Nothing has been said about this in the coalition board at all. Final decisions must be taken by the Saeima. Well, then, I also call on colleagues to adopt this final decision, because, according to the Finance Minister, it is likely that this proposal is also fiscally neutral, the sources are real, the sources are exactly the same as those of the previous ones. I really regret that I did not support the previous one and I am even more sorry that it is really none of the coalitions and ministries responsible... I think that Mr Dūrišs, or even Mr Pavļuta himself, should now play an active part in this debate and defend the sector, otherwise you cannot gain any confidence in your area. Explain how this issue will be addressed, otherwise you say to the whole region, the whole of Latgale: “It is not important for your misfortune government and the Saeima.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U57	The name of Member Janina Yalinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U58	Dear colleagues, This is two. - Inga Goldberg's proposal for an angiography is also... It is not the acquisition of a new angiograph, but only the replacement of all basic spare parts and the renewal of the software. It is a pity that the previous proposal on radiation therapy was not supported, and here is the question of this proposal being tabled by the opposition. But I also have a question for Mr Dūris, Parliamentary Secretary, whether these two proposals have indeed not been examined by the Ministry of Health. Do these two proposals - both an angiography and a radiation therapy facility - not really needed and not defended by Daugavpils Regional Hospital? If Mr. Durya explained to all of us today, maybe the next year, from the funds for unforeseen cases, these two... to help these two facilities. Perhaps we all here too would not talk much and convince each other, mainly the opposition MEPs, because the position Members do not listen to the opposition Members today. I will also turn to the Members elected from the Latgale constituency for this proposal, because in the previous vote very many abstained, but if we abstain, there is no 'yes' vote in favour of these proposals. Since we will support the purchase of spare parts for angiographer of Daugavpils regional hospital and will vote for the health of Latgale people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U59	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U60	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Please combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U61	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U62	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am not the first year in politics, but, as a surprise, this is probably the lowest point. Colleagues, it is really shameful! On the entire current background of health care - and specifically Daugavpils Regional Hospital... I would remind you that this government granted eight times less to the famous 86 million hospitals in the fight against the community to the Daugavpils regional hospital, if we count on a population, than to Riga. We have not heard any clarification about this from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Health, Mr Duriša, who is taking part in this sitting. We have not heard any explanation. What do you mean, colleagues?Oh, no, no, A budget with a share of expenditure of EUR 12 billion... You cannot even stand back because the budget deficit is - how? One and a half billion? Bill 700 million? And here you reject without any justification the proposal to grant - how? More than 200,000 salt for Daugavpils Regional Hospital. Here, in the Saeima, there are at least two three professional doctors: Mr Skride, Mrs Chash, Mr Durish. You understand very well that people in Daugavpils also have oncology problems, or do you think that in Latgale this does not happen to people? Can't there be any eye problems, either? You're your own... How could it be that you're making quotas for your fellow Members... I have not seen any quota that would give money to medicine, no quota of Members that would give money to medicine. The city of Daugavpils... Daugavpils Municipality convenes an extraordinary civil protection sitting, because Daugavpils Regional Hospital has no who to work, there is no part of the staff. And you no one, no one! - you have not allocated a Member's quota to the Daugavpils Regional Hospital, nor to the medical staff at all. This is the best reflection, colleagues, for understanding your priorities. Shame, colleagues, shame!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U63	Name to Member Janis Krishan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U64	Hello, very honourable Chairman of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I think we should be ashamed today of all these proposals that we reject, because the radiation therapy apparatus has long lived in Daugavpils... and it's not a secret to people, to no Doctor in Latgale that does evil too. Different kinds of things happen, people experience disasters, that unfortunately they cannot be taken to Riga. Daugavpils - it's a big hospital where you can get here and save another person. Today, not only old people die, but also young people die. Well, think about what we're doing! It is a pity that there was no money for such things from quotas, but I hope that perhaps you will understand, however, that something needs to be changed in the budget, too, and that money needs to be found there. We're just helping people get to where they won't be... I very much hope that you will think about it. Let's vote right! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U65	Name to Member Long Schuplinsk.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U66	Hello! Lobby dyna! Oh, my God! I would like to hope that everything that colleagues have said will be heard at the Ministry of Health and indeed not at this cynical quota, but an absolutely logical solution to the Ministry of Health budget will also be found, even though it should be said at once that just last week, the Latgale sub-commission came up, and how laughing, what sort of thing, a paradox - it was Mārtiņš Bondars who made the last of these proposals. It was directly related to Station Street on the Rēzekne side. The million that colleagues are talking about. For some reason, Mārtiņš Bondars did not notice whether Mr Dūrīšas had not said that health problems are really acute at this point and that one of the most rational proposals that could be supported is precisely about modernising this necessary equipment. But, I must say, that is this bitter reality in 30 years of independence. In the coalition, nothing but to step on the other side, as to the principle of looking for an elite for yourself, as absolutely... dividing your own and foreign sandbox... You all climb on the national shoulders. And, know, you may not fear anything, but believe me, it repays, it comes, and it will come back to everyone. We believe in science, we do not believe that it will come back, but the psycho-emotional situation in Latvia is simply tragic. Therefore, be reasonable and at least within the budget, let people work, but you can't do this either, because the community restrictions and the 100% vaccination prove that there can't exist a normal life in Latvia. However, let's look for strength!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U67	The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U68	Good morning, honourable colleagues! I think each of us could try to answer the question, where exactly this billion of funds, which has been spent, say, within two years. We should certainly already have new, modern hospitals built, or salaries already at the appropriate level, so that we can believe that medical staff receive enough to be able to work with full pay. But I can give you an example... The number of correspondences between Members and the Ministry of Health is common. And I also have these Excel files from Mr Pavluta on the funding and distribution granted and the objectives and its use until 28 September 2021. Then there is the second question: where are these billions? If we look at regional hospitals at the moment, for example, Liepaja Regional Hospital has been allocated a million 400 thousand together, the most - four million have been allocated to Rezekne, and two million to Jēkabpils - two million 900. If we look at Daugavpils, one million 163 thousand were allocated to Daugavpils in September and only 693 thousand were used. Total funding to be drawn up for these Ministry of Health... also capital companies... An example of this is Cesis, Tukums, Kraslava: together there are 13 million granted today. But we know that more than five billion have been spent and even more will be spent next year. Then the question remains: where is this money spent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U69	Name to Member Ilmar Duritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U70	Good morning, very honourable Chairman of the Saeima. High honourable Members! The Ministry of Health hears the words of regional hospitals, including Daugavpils Regional Hospital, as well as your words. It has to be said that it is not that Structural Funds funds would not be available to regional hospitals, that they would only be available to hospitals in Riga, as it may be clear from this debate. The Ministry of Health has been informed and has been aware... and, as has already been mentioned here, the issues have been addressed in the relevant working groups on linear accelerators and angiography equipment. The Daugavpils regional hospital itself must, of course, assess what is their highest priority. If the purchase of these facilities is a top priority in order to continue to provide services in the hospital, of course, the Structural Funds can, of course, also be used for the purchase or renewal of these facilities and can be used in the coming years. So I would also call on Members to understand that this development of infrastructure in every hospital must be seen systemically and planned systemically by the hospital itself. You have to imagine, colleagues: we have a lot of hospitals, and all hospitals with allowances from Members, if you can say so, because this proposal is actually nothing but a quota, it will not be possible to guarantee it either. So these things have to be seen systemically, and I would call on Members to take that view, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U71	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U72	According to Mr Dūritis, systematically in this budget, coalition Members consider the repair of the courtyards, various cultural events as a key priority, but help the hospital to face the challenges that are linked to health in particular... to sort out the basic infrastructure - it is not a priority in the context of budgetary quotas. And, as my fellow Members have already mentioned, Mr Reira has said, this is a fiscally neutral measure. In this case, what Mr Dūrišs does not say to the end is that 84 percent of Structural Funds investments are in Riga and only 16 percent in the regions. The coming year for regional hospitals, as I have already mentioned in previous proposals, will be very, very difficult in terms of rising energy costs. If you now say that it is up to the hospital itself, then, unfortunately, you have said directly that these facilities are unlikely to be restored in the coming years, because it is quite simply that hospitals will not have the money to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U73	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U74	Colleagues, I would very much ask you to support this proposal and perhaps to forget for a while that you are currently serving your elite with MEPs' quotas. If you're not clear yet, let me explain. To Daugavpils Regional Hospital takes people from all over Latgale, and there will be your constituents, and you will then have to tell them that, behold, we had one plan, but it happened as it came. The parliamentary secretary of the Ministry of Health, who recommends that the hospital manager look at the Structural Funds, means one thing: you know perfectly what the Structural Funds are and when they will have money from the Structural Funds, but its equipment is already needed. You have probably not heard what Mr Krishan said that already now the radiation therapy device works in such a way as to harm human health precisely because it is out of date. Not to mention an angiographer... You understand what it is at all about the machine (a catheter being given into a blood vessel) and what diseases it treats thanks to this type of diagnostics. I beg you very much: think about all people, not just your constituents. Those who currently vote against this proposal... I think you can call your friends and relatives in Latgale and tell them honestly - please don't go to Daugavpils Hospital. Go... I don't know where they're going to get a cure if it's what's going on. Yes, hospitals are only heard when members of the opposition raise a stalemate around it. Please vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U75	Thank you. The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U76	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues and colleagues! Thank you, Mr. Durish, for your answers. I was somewhat confused by your approach that others were guilty. It is not your character; it is a characteristic of another party. The other one was embarrassing me. This is not a Member's quota, because if it were a Member's quota, it would be supported. In this case, perhaps to say that there are many hospitals in Latvia, there will be no place either. But I understand that there is concern, and really thanks for the answer. But at the same time, it is possible that this proposal is important, because people would get help immediately. The Foundation... I hope and know that the Ministry of Health will look at how new... new things. You will probably look at how it is divided into regional hospitals, because this list of new cases or... coverage in Latvia is, of course, the responsibility of the Ministry of Health to have coverage, but help is needed now. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U77	The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U78	Colleagues and listeners! Perhaps the truth lies in the fact that some cancer sufferers die and cannot vote. Perhaps this is why the lack of money for oncology and hardware is the real reason why the majority of the Saeima's position will not vote in favour of this and did not vote in favour of the previous proposal. So that we are realistic and that we are also objective, let us consider the votes! Whoever votes in favour of saving life and saving life will vote in favour of this proposal. Those who do not see the problems of the sick and do not see their elite in it will vote 'no' because cancer patients may not survive until the next elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U79	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U80	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to thank Mrs Goldberga for her proposal, Mr Dūrišs, for answering the concerns and questions of colleagues in both the Commission and here in the Saeima's sitting. Given that the Ministry of Health said that it would look at this problem, the Commission decided to reject the 190th proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U81	Please call me! We will vote for 190. - Mrs Goldberg's proposal! Please, let's vote! On - 36, against - 41, refraining from - 8. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U82	191. - a proposal from Members Puce, Latkovska, Jušas and Indricksons. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U83	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U84	Colleagues, first of all, I wanted to say that Livani Municipality is developing very successfully, and every year we can see that the city is becoming more beautiful and diverse. Indeed, thank you very much to the President of this district here. But my speech will relate to a slightly different subject. I will mention the event that took place in the summer with the Minister for Welfare, Gati Eglīte... the distribution of these funds to their municipalities. We see that this funding is provided directly by the applicant... The applicant shall represent a particular lot and the President of the county shall also represent the same lot as the one for which this funding will be provided. I'm going to quote Egly's misunderstanding... who are fighting for the rule of law. So, "Yes, here I would more like to point out the practice that was at a time when the Union of Greens/Farmers was in power, when really the projects were often divided according to which municipality, if any, belongs to a particular political power. I wanted to emphasise once again and again that such a distribution of money by party is not acceptable in our coalition." Then the question is... Mr Jušas, you have also signed up to this proposal. Your group does not support the distribution of such money to its parties, their local governments. Please comment, where is your rule of law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U85	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U86	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! I, too, would like to start by thanking Mr Dūris for the courage and speaking out on the previous proposal and also calling on others to do so. But on this proposal. Colleagues, you know, that's the immoral situation... Now you're offering... How much was that? Here's 50,000, I think. 50,000 bicycles for construction in Livani, which is undoubtedly important, but yesterday you rejected the allocation of EUR 5 million to municipal streets, and the situation from this is much more dramatic. Mr Butane talked about a new way of applying money to municipalities for street repairs, but it has already shocked several municipalities, where it is clear that it will not be possible to do so next year from the planned, which is the work that is primarily necessary. Instead of trying to solve the situation in essence, we see that one municipality has been in an emergency situation and their people do not have where to ride bicycles, they need to arrange a bicycle. It is completely separated from the overall context. Of course, there is no doubt that this is definitely necessary in the Livani, and the population, all the more so in Latgale, certainly deserves it, but at the same time, colleagues, it only shows how wrong this system is with regard to the common systemic proposals. We, the Union of Greens and Farmers, even in opposition, are not submitting proposals for quotas to Members this year, even though, believe me, we have had many such requests. We presented systemic solutions to help municipalities cope with the streets, to help municipalities cope with the same bikes, but at the moment coalition shows what their priorities are – a bicycle, not oncology systems in Latgale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U87	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U88	This is a quota of Members, which is not actually a quota of Members, but a political decision of the Members of the position. 50 thousand euros are allocated to Līvāni Municipality for the construction of a combined bicycle and pedestrian track from Riga street 2F to the functional forest track of Grīva. Līvāni is a very small, beautiful town, also very, very well tended. It is different from the fact that it is really very beautiful and much repaired and many infrastructure objects have been built. And some amazing fact, perhaps. In the municipal elections in Livani, they won with Development/About! the associated political force. If these 50,000 are in no case a quota and it is a certain systemic solution to problems in Livani infrastructure, and if the construction of its pedestrian path and cycle path will save lives, as could have been done with the previous Inga Goldberga proposal, restoring special medical equipment... The vote on this proposal will also show the priorities for the members of the ruling coalition, because each of the people who will now vote in favour of the bicycle route will not save the lives of a man who could be saved in Daugavpils by providing funding for medical equipment. I will vote against this proposal. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U89	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U90	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Let's not deny that bicycle infrastructure, development of bicycle infrastructure is necessary and meaningful and smart for Latvia, and really hand in hand with the municipality and especially with places where it is most necessary... But given that this is what the coalition has submitted... and apparently only a politically chosen criterion, the chosen municipality... At the same time, I read on the Ministry of Transport's website, published almost three weeks ago, that "we invite you to participate in the discussion of the strategy for the development of micro-mobility infrastructure". Among other things, it quotes: “For the first time, Latvia has developed a strategy for the development of the state micro-mobility infrastructure, which will play an important role in the management of the traffic infrastructure of the country and municipalities, paying particular attention to the interests of pedestrians and cyclists,” says Jānis Butāns, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, inviting everyone to get to know the strategy prepared by the Ministry and to express their views.” What I would really like to hear is the specific project of 50 thousand, which is now being submitted, in what context it contains the planning documents drawn up in parallel by the government, the Ministry of Transport... Is that so? And is the Livani case really above all, where the most critical cases are, and above all it is necessary to develop this bicycle infrastructure into the state's total budget - tax - resources? Has there been any other experience? How has this been assessed in the overall context? I would really call on Mr Butan, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport from the New Conservative Party, to apply and tell, because, in parallel, the government is organising various events, various surveys and... Please bring me together the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U91	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U92	... organises truly and analyzes where it is most needed, measures the so-called traffic intensity to where people move, their habits, including mobile data flows and other data, black points to save lives for this infrastructure to be safe. We spend our resources on it, our civil servants' resources, we pay huge wages for it, but at the same time we do something completely different from it. That is why I would really call on the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport to apply and tell... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U93	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U94	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that I would like to agree with Mrs Svekova: Livani is indeed a very well-ordered region, and it is a pleasure to see how it has developed, but it has been based on a systemic approach, as Livani has always been supported. There, a great deal of work has been done precisely on the part of the Union of Greens/Farmers and on the part of one particular Member. It was Jānis Klazds, who has always entered into all kinds of negotiations about Līvāni. And really with very good results - also with how the Structural Funds investments were provided, Līvāni was really especially looking at Latvia's level. Those results, as a developed development center, are fantastic. However, at the moment I would like to say to Livani, when I go to the development centre, that line has been very degraded, and all this has focused on just one bicycle. In my opinion, this is a huge fall for the Livani region and the population has just lost it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U95	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U96	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I ask you to combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U97	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U98	Thank you. I am perhaps only indirectly on the proposal at first. I very much appreciate the fact that Mr Dūris is now the fourth parliamentary secretary, who is the fourth... However, on the fourth day of the debate, he has found the courage to speak and answer questions. This, in my opinion, is very, very highly appreciated, of course, not to mention content. Now, in general, colleagues, on the proposals, on the quotas of Members and also on this specific proposal... of course, first of all, this specific proposal. Here, my fellow Members, this says something: in a situation where the main problem in the country is, the main priority is what is happening in health care, what is happening in hospitals, it is very obvious that no Member's quota provides for funding for health care - not for doctors or hospitals. No parliamentary quota! I could say that it is particularly strange for a party that is politically responsible for the Ministry of Health. And also complains that the government has not provided sufficient funding for health care. It is very unique, colleagues, that you have not allocated your allowances to any hospital or healthcare sector as a whole, if its quotas were distributed equally, then they were about EUR 500 000. That's very weird, colleagues! With regard to this specific proposal. Well, of course, it is also an investment, a long-term investment, which can be said also in health care. Of course, if people use this bicycle, it will make them healthier and it could reduce our health bills sometime in the future. However, today, my fellow Members, its priority, its acute need, is different, and no quota of Members, as I said, affects this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U99	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U100	Good morning, honourable President. Members! Please unite me in time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U101	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U102	This will obviously be the only time I will talk about quotas. I can't talk either. When I spoke and approached Prime Minister Kariņa, I said that none of the former Prime Ministers envy Mr Kariņš, because indeed this period of pandemic, the time of the community, is a challenge that Latvia never had during independence. But with regard to this budget, I would also like to say that any former Prime Minister would feel that he... Because there's something that's given to everyone and everyone who's demanding. So it's about quotas. This and next... I would like to turn to Mr. Kaimiņa, to all those who were outside the parliament at that time condemning quotas. My partners... We were then late in the autumn of 2016... Mr. Neighbours, how we... I was really ashamed and embarrassed that it had been a distinction, a tradition that we divided it. Then we all agreed to that night-- well, there's no more. And now we come back. We've put all the standards back on the old tracks, and what we've ever been ashamed of... I can recommend a few more recipes, perhaps, already told me when I came to Parliament as a young politician. It's coming... In summer there will be a tomb festival, it is much more important to go there, go everywhere, everywhere, everywhere and show the three balls that you give to someone. You have to go and remind me. There's someone hiding behind every quota... Well, a fellow Member who will then be proud of it. Of course it's good. I cannot vote against any proposals, because it is a pleasure that a municipality, some people, will get something. It's such an effective instrument. But on the other hand, as we said, as we spoke in the year when we last decided together that there would be no more such quotas... It's actually pretty, pretty... Well, I don't know, I can't find a word, but we don't see many big things. We have things that we refuse, which may be more important. Each municipality would do it without it. So, to succeed with this budget, but I hope that this will be an exception, let us at least do everything next time, so that there is no quota again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U103	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U104	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, fellow Members! Mr Kučinska, you are absolutely right. I do not accept these parliamentary quotas, and finally, at the 190th proposal, it is all clear that these are parliamentary quotas. I said at the beginning of the budget review that they have been allocated... To say so, there are people, municipalities, some repairs. And the least there are people here to repair. If there are bicycles and other repairs, there are no repairs for people. I know that Members are also pushing on feelings and telling us that... Well, here was about Daugavpils Hospital... I'm not a doctor, I'm not from Daugavpils or Latgale... I already don't have this information. Also at the time of drawing up the budget, Mr Kučinska, I have not stood by, I received this budget as you did, that is to say, I think even you had more information than the former Prime Minister had. And I told our Prime Minister in one of the cooperation meetings... I ask Mr Kariņš to cancel these quotas so that they do not exist, because we had an agreement, just as you said. Unfortunately, no one heard me, or at least seemed deaf, and that's what's left of me. I do not support quotas, Mr Kučinski, and if there is an explanation of quotas, as it was for these... on the very first day of the budget, we talked about... Raivis Dzintars touched and himself started to explain... And also about them TechHub and so on, that just... If you explain it, then you can do it. Bring it together, Mrs. Moore, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U105	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U106	So here's the way this... I, Mr. Kučinsky, that's... I'm saying, once again, that's the feeling that you're stuck in screws and you're not human, you're not... Not that good, not that bad. Everyone needs that bike, that machine at Daugavpils Hospital. Well then you look at the information you can hear here on this screen, and then you can't know who to believe. In this case, I, Mr. Kučinski... You have already said that everyone has been fed and everyone is very good here, everything has been given, and I agree with you. I personally cannot accept such quotas that we are putting on concrete... or the next proposals, where everyone has agreed and where everyone is good at what will happen to Rezekne. I do not think it is okay, I think it should be another way, as I do during the professional budgeting, and I would like to hear here perhaps some time explanations from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. So that's it, Mr. Kučinski!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U107	Thank you. Name to Member Janis Butan. ( Pause) I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U108	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that the 191st proposal was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U109	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 191. - a proposal from Members Pouce, Latkovsky, Jušas and Indricksons! Please, let's vote! -67, against -3, refrains - not. Proposal 191 approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U110	192. - a proposal from Members Dzintara, Pouce, Juša, Latkovska and Zakatistov. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U111	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubova Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U112	Yes, colleagues, this is also a quota for Members... which are not members' quotas. And I will also vote against this quota because a target grant of EUR 20 000 is granted to the municipality of Ogres. It is also an obvious option when Members get a little bit of beauty... and indeed Mr Kučinskis very rightly referred to their tradition or their technology, it could be called - the PR technology used by politicians to maintain a discourse and his positive image, when small things, as if not too expensive, are being paid attention to themselves and told the voters that, yes, we are doing our duties as Members very well, because, obviously, we have provided you with 20 thousand euros to arrange a seat or 50 thousand bikes, but these Members will not say that this bike and this monument are built at the expense of the lives of other people. And the life and health of other people is the payment they paid for this quota of beautiful Members. Those who will vote in favour of these parliamentary quotas remember that you have achieved this by sacrificing the lives and health of other people. I will vote against. And I will repeat, remind and inform the public about these parliamentary quotas, because the public needs to know their heroes who choose to invest in monuments rather than in life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U113	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U114	Dear colleagues, I will, however, vote in favour of this proposal, but if we look at who has this allocation... It is all very well - for the renewal of the Pumpur monument and for the Municipality of Ogre this targeted grant is granted, however, in my opinion, Ogre Municipality is not the municipality that could have been said to have been unable to raise financial resources. In my opinion, this municipality is quite successful in doing so. But at the same time, the grant to the municipality... on the background, when municipalities are removed as a whole during this government with EUR 300 million (that is minimum, I think we could count even more there, but now those 300 million - that is absolutely minimum), it is offered to the municipality to return 20 thousand to the targeted event through the quota of Members... Well, I think that doesn't really solve that problem. I think if the basic foundation of the municipality had the funding that should have been there, then the municipalities themselves could (and many municipalities are already doing so, I am sure Ogres novads is also dealing with it) precisely these cultural and historical issues... they could also be more successful in implementing these measures, and they would not need such State aid, which is actually the same as their total background: 300 million... 20 thousand against - now it is such a very small measure. So, colleagues, we will support this, but overall its system... better have been - as Mr. Kučinski worked - thinking about big things, not about such small ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U115	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U116	In the Commission, the 192nd proposal was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U117	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 192. - the proposal tabled by Members Dzintara, Puces, Juša, Latkovska and Zakatistova! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U118	193. - a proposal from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, supported by the Latgale Commission. It was supported by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U119	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U120	Well, my fellow Members, this is also a parliamentary quota, which became a proposal from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission during the meeting of the Commission. This is a proposal that could be called a cherry on the Members' Quota Tort, as it provides for the allocation of 955 thousand for the conversion of the alley to Rezekne. And I want to say, when all Members vote in favour of this quota, which became the decision and proposal of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) to remember, as they walked through the alley, the residents of Rezekne, that the patients who are sick or need help from Rezekne, from Rezekne, from Livani, from Preili, from other cities of Latgale could perhaps have been saved from the Daugavpils hospital, which did not receive the necessary funding for the restoration of medical equipment. So that you walk safely through the beautiful alley, those who live because cancer patients may unfortunately die and cannot vote. And this alley will be built at the expense of the life and health of others. Have a good walk in this alley, Mr. Bondar!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U121	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U122	Dear colleagues, We are looking at this proposal in a rather specific context. The overall reduction in road infrastructure in the next year's budget is therefore 50 million, for streets, for municipal streets, five million. For example, to illustrate this, there are international highways, so transit streets that pass through cities... For example, in Jelgava, now there will have to be speed limits on Class A motorways that provide international connections in one stage - at least at the moment it is possible to cope with speed limits, so in the future there may be other restrictions, perhaps even restrictions on the further use of this road... a prohibition. It is on the road, which is such a good blood circulation for the whole Latvian economy. At the same time, I had the opportunity to run zero towards Estonia. Salacgriva... there is this bridge, which in my opinion is also one very serious connection of the Latvian TEN-T network, where no repair works take place at the moment, just a traffic lights are placed and are... Of course, the new Limbaži region has no (though theoretical) opportunity to repair this bridge. In the next year's budget, I do not see any sort of solution to these issues. So we... TEN-T Network Paths... transit streets do not currently have resources, and instead we... The coalition of the government sees that one particular path can be arranged - the alley. Thank you for that. This is at least a step in the right direction, but in general, this system is bucking very much and we are moving away from the real priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U123	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U124	I would like to reflect on what Mr Valaiņa said: there is no funding for handling the transit streets. The Ministry of Transport's budget for this is more than two million euros. The mentioned bridge of Salacgrīva in this programme (transparency programme) has also been supported, and the municipality of Salacgrīva will be able to start preparations for the construction project next year for the funding granted by the State. So I'm asking you not to deceive the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U125	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U126	Thank you to the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport for taking part in the debate. It's a shame that he didn't participate in the bicycle infrastructure. But if we're talking... there is funding or there is no funding for the settlement of transit streets, then, as we have heard: if there is an alley, one alley, a municipality - almost one million, then there are two million of transit houses across the country. I'm sorry, colleagues, now we know how much we cost building one kilometre with all safety signs and safety barriers. Since, in principle, if someone says that there is no money for transit roads, knowing that two million have been allocated, it will not be a lie, then really, at the total length of transit routes in Latvia, these two million really cannot be considered as funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U127	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U128	Well, colleagues, if that's... of course, if some planning work has begun, it does not necessarily mean that there will also be repair work at once. But what I said, and I also agreed with Mr Tatar that, if two million in Latvia for transits, I doubt whether this can improve the situation in some way, even if these two examples, which I mentioned. But these are certainly not the only examples of areas where some sort of improvement is needed. Now it's really how I see it... I see that the failure of the government is being compensated by such proposals, in the hope that it will improve the overall situation in some way. This will improve the overall situation in one particular municipality (and it is good that at least one municipality has a concrete, clear solution), but overall, the problem remains in the country, with these two million unfortunately there will not be a solution to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U129	Name to Member Janis Butan for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U130	So these two million, although the amount is not great (and, of course, I would like the country of Latvia to be richer and we could all support), eight municipalities applied for funding in this year's programme for the settlement of transit streets. And six of them were supported - so six municipalities will either sort out their existing transit streets, or a construction project will be prepared so that they can be arranged in the future, also when applying for the same programme. So, in my opinion, the programme is good - and it is good for the poorest municipalities that need this funding most. On the other hand, those municipalities that are richer could, in my opinion, also arrange these streets for their own means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U131	The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U132	Don't believe in sweet words - look at the works! And look at the fact that 955 thousand euro is a priority for building an alley. And look at the fact that construction has the highest share of the shadow economy. Look at the construction... is a construction cartel case that has not yet been fully investigated and discovered. And the level of corruption in the construction sector is very, very high. So look at the works, because it's possible to get cash from the construction works... and political bribery is taking place. But unfortunately, from the area of health support, from the repair of the equipment required by the oncological hospital, probably no possibility of getting other things that might be linked to political corruption... Not possible. Therefore, look at the works, not at the words.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U133	Thank you, colleagues. The debate will continue after the break. The break is scheduled for 30 minutes, as the session of the Education, Culture and Science Commission is scheduled for the break. So, dear colleagues, break by 11 a.m. Then we plan to work until 12 noon. And a break from 12 noon to 13.30 due to the planned meetings of the Committee on European Affairs and other commissions and the request for a longer break in order to be able to hold these meetings qualitatively. Registration of the presence of Members So the first break by 11.00, the second break from 12.00 to 13.30. Thank you. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U134	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Let's keep sitting. We are looking at the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2022, 2023 and 2024 and have remained with the proposal of 193. Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis had applied for the debate, but his Chamber does not exist, so I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Bondar... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U135	On behalf of the Commission, I would just like to remind you, colleagues, that this proposal, 193, is supported by the Latgale Sub-Commission, because I understood that this street is very important for Rezekne - it is an economic seam. I would also like to remind you that when you look at this proposal at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission... we understand very well that this proposal was not supported by the government. The 193th proposal, on the other hand, was endorsed by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. I call on you to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U136	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 193. - The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! It's not 65, it's two, it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U137	194. - a proposal from Members Puce, Latkovska, Jušas and Indricksons. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U138	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U139	Colleagues! This proposal is also a quota for Members, which is not a quota for Members. And these are 50 thousand euros, which will be allocated to the municipality of Rezekne municipality for the construction of a parking lot on Rēzeknes street in Viļāni. I don't know how people in Viļāni will feel when they walk on this parking lot or put cars there, if they know that this money could have been used to save people's lives and health. And behind each of these money allocations there are human lives - unsaved lives. The kindergarten pupils, children, educators who do not receive appropriate remuneration shall stand behind each of these Members' quotas. After each of these Members' allocations, there is an acute need which has not been realised in the country, from a systemic point of view and from a horizontal point of view. Members' quotas raise prestige and visibility, and they make a single Member or group of Members, but the country as a whole, in the sense of statehood, does not raise the quota or its reputation. I think that society is not blind and deaf, and it will see that behind this 50,000 allocation there lies also unsaved lives, unacquired quality education and the future of our children. I will not support Members' quotas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U140	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U141	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Colleagues! I would like to talk about Rēzekne Municipality and this, in my opinion, is quite typical... function itself... construction of a parking area. Here, since the county should be dealt with by itself, but in this situation we see that this is not the case, the help of the Saeima is necessary, and it has a rather logical explanation, because if we look at the last five years, the municipal budgets have grown three times less than the state budget... twice as much as the state budget has increased - only 12 per cent, while the state budget has increased by 26 per cent. If we look at the expenditure chapter, of course, the rise in consumer prices alone is 10 per cent, the gross domestic product has increased by 26 per cent in real prices, and then, of course, the actual expenditure incurred by local authorities, which is linked to wages: therefore, a 32 per cent increase in the minimum wage, the average salary has increased by 40 per cent. All these cases also concern Rezekne municipality, and these circumstances, of course, also do not leave money for development in Rezekne municipality. This budget offers the municipality only to borrow development money from its own investments. This burden, which is formed on wages, is too great, and this is not just the case in Rezekne municipality, it is also true in all other municipalities... and now the municipalities have removed EUR 300 million during this term. The next year, a very significant reduction in funding, despite the fact that there is a three-percent increase - it is still against the four-percent inflation... you yourself understand that this will be a reduction in actual costs at the end of the day. And the municipalities... and here the coalition sees a solution for it, giving the construction of a parking lot to one particular municipality. Colleagues, such an approach is really not to be supported, but... I ask you to combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U142	Yes, your times are united. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U143	Thank you very much. This approach, as a whole, is not the right one in my view. It would be better for municipalities to ensure their revenue of at least 19,6 per cent of the total... from the budget, as was the case at the time of the adoption of the tax reform, such an agreement was reached with the municipalities, because it was clear that the tax reform resulted in people... more of this tax revenue will remain in the pockets of the people themselves. This will lead to a fall in income for municipalities. The currently proposed tax amendments will also have a significant impact on local government budgets, but at the same time local governments will not reduce this pressure and development of money is needed. If this development money is being... At the moment, how is this dealt with? Consequently, it is dealt with exclusively in the context of investment programmes. As opposed to what has been removed from the municipalities, these investment programmes are rather ridiculous, i.e. you are taking away the basic expenses of the municipalities. If the municipalities were to keep the basic expenditure to the same level as the...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U144	Thank you, Mr Valaiņš, your time is up, thank you. I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Bondar... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U145	In the Commission, the 194th proposal was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U146	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 194. - a proposal from Members Pouce, Latkovsky and Indrickson! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 65, it's against - 1, it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U147	195. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union, which calls for funds to be made available for targeted grants to municipalities in the event of unforeseen events. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U148	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U149	Colleagues! I think this is a very serious proposal and is based on the resolution of the 10th Congress of Selia (Thank you to all colleagues who were present at this convention). The resolution of this congress sets out the specific things that the delegates of the Congress asked the government and the Saeima to do - those things that should be done. And, among other things, to set up a group of Members on the issue of Selia. It's a great pleasure to have one. However, there are also very specific issues in the state budget. And now it's not... In my opinion, what is the point of such a group of Members if the national budget does not address the issues they refer to?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. To make Selia a planning region - that is, of course, not a budgetary issue, but to form Selia as a development centre and invest in certain areas, putting certain sections of the way in order to have a basis for all of this - that is, in my opinion, a budgetary issue. And that is what we are now presenting with this proposal in the context of the Selia Development Programme. In our view, the funding needed for the Sély support instruments is 10 million; it would be sufficient to give a good reflection on Sély's future path towards the establishment of a regional development centre - Sélya. And there is, in my opinion, a very specific development scenario that should be supported. In my view, not only should a group of Members be formed, but it should also support the proposals and implement what the Sélya County Association has wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U150	Name of Member Evia Papulei. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U151	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! I also call for support for this proposal. Although the amount may seem large enough, it is, of course, a drop at sea on the background of the overall deficit. Support would be very important. Speaking of yesterday's debate, the Ministry of Culture protected the Latvian Land... salaries of the directorate, wages of their people. Now what will give the Latvian land at this point... directorate, if there will be no Selija as a historical region, what to develop and support? This proposal should be seen as a first step. Accordingly, activities can be supported in the region so that Selia region can develop, develop and be located in Latvia. I would also invite you to support this proposal because, if we are already supporting Latgale region and, as we have just seen, with a quota system of almost a million, it is equally important to develop other regions in this territory of Latvia. It would also be useful for Sēlija at this point in time to look at the network of educational institutions, especially if we look at the development or provision of vocational education in this region, and I am thinking of Sēlija. Vocational education, including strong higher education... Well, to be the first level too, but the existence of higher education in this region is certainly important and will give a good boost. It is to be hoped that these steps will also contribute to the development of education... including, as I have already mentioned, a higher education centre and a vocational education centre. I invite you to support the proposal and... But look forward to the future by supporting people... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U152	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U153	Well, my fellow Members, this is the case where we really have various parliamentary cooperation groups in the Saeima, there are also the Selija support group, the leader - Edwins Šnore (National Association), the deputy head - Sandis Riekstins (New Conservative Party). I am quite sure that you are also familiar with this resolution, because somehow you have come to the point that such a group of Members must be formed. However, I think that the people of Selia district hope to expect more from members of the Saeima than just the creation of a group of Members. I call on the members of this group to look at other groups. Look at how active Latgale Group is working, how they manage to defend their interests. And in this case... if we are discussing the budget, it is financial interests, which should also be protected. And I think it would only be normal if we supported such proposals, or at least meaningfully debated them. Therefore, the management of the group of Members, then, please give us some clarity as to how this...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U154	Thank you. The debate is over. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U155	Please combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U156	Your times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U157	Thank you. Why will I support this proposal? In order not to call it "Members' quota proposal", as this proposal provides for a system-based solution and intends to increase the target for the municipality in order to ensure the targeted development of the Selia region. It must be understood that investing in a particular bicycle, a particular car park, a children's square or an alley does not solve systemic problems. This proposal would provide a systemic approach to tackling the problems in the Selia region. Yes, there are also problems with national regional roads in the Selia region. They indicated that they need reconstruction for such sections of roads as the St.-Lithuania border, Ilūkste-Bebrene, Ilūkste-Bebrene-Birži, Silini-Aknieste-Lithuania border... and also the local roads of the country: Rubņi-Dunava, Slate-Domini-Auņi, Vilkupe-Bebrene, Vilkupe-Gārsene-Lithuania border. The people of Selia also want to develop the region... existing at the border with Lithuania to ensure economic development and cohesion and the improvement of living standards. Unfortunately, their voices... Members' quotas... from the point of view of the position, not heard. And these roads, Multive-Viesite-Apserde... reconstruction is not ensured... Unlike the Rēzekne Alley, almost a million... What did the people of Selija sin more than the people of Rezekne, for example? Why are the people of Selija not provided with the necessary infrastructure so that they can live, travel and develop their business better? Why is business in Selya less important than business in Rezekne? Was it really the case that a systemic approach was considered when deciding on the allowances of Members and allocating almost EUR million to the alley? What is more important: an alley or cross-border trade, cross-border economic cooperation in Selya? Well, probably in my eyes, the development of the Selia border would prevail, but, of course, only after the health problems have been resolved. So that I support this proposal. I ask the other Members to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U158	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U159	Madam President, Colleagues and colleagues! Well in fact, by supporting this proposal, you would also support the President's idea of a Latvian historical land law, not only the remuneration of the directorate. I would like to emphasise that, with your support for this proposal, you would also support strong educational and cultural centres in the region, not only in the city of the region concerned, but also in the Selia region as a whole. While visiting Selia district, to some extent there was also an opportunity to look at some schools, including Aknieste secondary school, which shows a good example, there is a strong school, strong in maintaining and managing the cultural traditions of Selia district. I would like to say that the investment would not only be in the city but also in the neighbourhood. And I would like to remind you that Selija has historically been a heroic and soldier region, and there, too, some memorial place could be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U160	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Bondar... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U161	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that the 195th proposal tabled by the Group of the Greens/ Farmers' Union was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U162	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 195. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! For - 29, for - 50, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U163	196. - a proposal from Members Dzintara, Pouce, Juša, Latkovska and Zakatistov. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U164	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U165	Yes, colleagues, 20 thousand euros - for Sigulda Municipality. Is that little or much? And is the EUR 20 000 allocated to the municipality of Sigulda a question of life or death? Probably we all know - most people in Latvia know - that Sigulda is a very rich municipality where very wealthy people live, who could probably also find 20 thousand euros in their budget to ensure the necessary activities in the programme. What does it point to again? That 20 thousand to Sigulda municipality are allocated as member's quotas. This clearly indicates that there is no systematic approach to budget planning. This certainly means that, in fact, planning is not taken seriously by the majority of the Saeima. It is believed that the Members of the Saeima can simply give money to the right and to the left - so also the money borrowed! - ensuring short-term needs and despite deeper, more serious problems. Yes, let the residents of Sigulda remember that about 20 thousand could really save a man's life and health, but most members of the Saeima chose to allocate their money as a member's quota! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U166	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U167	Without questioning this objective for which this money is intended (the aim is very welcome, and it is definitely necessary to support this proposal), but here again and again it must be pointed out that its target is for the municipality: on the one hand, we are giving a target to the municipality, but on the other hand, we have taken away very important financial resources for the municipalities. If we follow a systemic approach that prevents municipalities from talking about such issues as this? There are annual negotiations between municipalities and the government on a wide range of issues. In principle, every ministry passes through - whether it is the Ministry of Culture or the Ministry of Defence, or the Ministry of Transport or the Ministry of Economics. The issues of each ministry are being negotiated with municipalities, with the Latvian Municipal Union and solutions are being sought; the municipalities mark their priorities, the government - their priorities, common denominators are being sought, and the sources of funding are being sought for these common denominators. I wouldn't... Now it is rather sad that in this way - through parliamentary quotas - funding must be sought for such important issues; it cannot be found in the normal budgetary process. And that is nothing good about this government. It only shows that this government has not been able to find systematic solutions to these issues, which in this respect... In the budget, Members have tried to prevent... Members of the National Alliance, and it is right and good, I also support all this, but at the same time... It shows the weakness of the government... address these issues in the budgetary process... or, on the contrary, an absolute lack of interest on the part of Members... and inactivity... has not been a contribution to the budgetary process. And that's not a good sign either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U168	Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U169	Dear colleagues, Obviously, Mrs Svekov would need to refresh the knowledge of history with regard to these battles in the territory of More. I would like to remind you that they have been one of the most bloody battles in which Latvian legions have participated. In fact, this is a unique place on the Latvian level, where national events organised by the Ministry of Defence take place every year. And it has now happened that this object is located in the territory of Sigulda municipality, just like... we also discussed the issue of Stompaku bog, which is also located in a particular municipality - the Balvu municipality. In this case, I really believe that the objective is very correct, that improvement is necessary, and that young people also take part in these activities. It is important to remind here that not only the children of Sigulda, young people, but young people and young people from various schools in Latvia, from all over Vidzeme, often from Riga; they also participate in these historical and educational events. And that is why, of course, I agree that it would be good to put it into the budget law as permanent funding, but it is good that it is also possible to achieve the objective in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U170	The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U171	My arguments relate to the lack of a systemic approach to dealing with the relevant economic issues. Yes, historical aspects must be taken care of, but they must be a system, they must have systemic funding and they must be provided by the relevant ministry - either the Ministry of Culture, or the Ministry of Education and Science, or the Ministry of Defence. Ministers must undertake consistent horizontal cooperation... Cooperation at horizontal level and access to finance. But the quotas of Members degrade themselves in the course of the budget review, the objectivity... and the reasonableness of how the budget is spent. And one more thing. What is more expensive - the life of a person living today or the quotas of Members, which, unfortunately, are distributed in mass this year within the framework of the budget...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U172	Thank you. Time's up. Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U173	Yes, colleagues, we have important things and we see issues that, in the opinion of the Members, have not been resolved in the budget process, but they have found sources of funding through proposals from Members. And tragically, such good proposals... But in general, if we look at this debate on parliamentary quotas... Colleagues, we cannot find the money for radio equipment, not for purchase, but for restoration in Daugavpils hospital, whereas in Latgale... We voted to set up a parking lot at the graves. Well, that's not the right signal we're sending to the public! Remembrance measures planned in these proposals of the National Alliance are also important, of course, but, colleagues, remember also those other proposals that the opposition is encouraging in this case. I call on you to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U174	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Bondar... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U175	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that the 196th proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U176	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 196. - the proposal from Members Dzintara, Pouce, Juša, Latkovska and Zakatistov! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U177	197. - a proposal from Members Dzintara, Pouce, Juša, Latkovska and Zakatistov. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U178	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U179	Colleagues, 20 thousand euros grant - to provide Tukums Municipality with targeted grants for design works. Well, I want to ask a question... Okay, yes, the municipality of Tukums needs design work, but perhaps no less important are the design work needed to ensure the repair of the local roads in Selia? Access to and quality of sesame roads for the local population would also be an appropriate measure, which would require funding. Unfortunately, MEPs' quotas show a distorted understanding of how money is redeployed in the overall budget. I would like to say once again: taxes are paid by all citizens - Selia, Daugavpils, Tukums, Talsi and Sigulda - but it is not why some Members decided that it was 20 thousand more important and necessary for design works in Tukums, but for Selia and Selia roads these 20 thousand are not necessary. What were the reasons for such decisions? Now probably political considerations and the search for cheap popularity in the eyes of their constituents, but the country does not get from it. The country as a whole simply loses it, unfortunately. The system is distorted, and the understanding of how to spend all the budget money and who spends it is also distorted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U180	Name to Member Ritvar Janson. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U181	Hello! This proposal does not have to be seen as a separate exception or disintegration and is far from comparable to other regions, because the Church of Leschen - as an architectural monument of national importance - has already received state budget support in the past so that we can see the church in Leschen partially restored, as we see it now. Tukums Municipality has also addressed the National Cultural Heritage Administration with a proposal to grant the status of a national monument to the Cemetery of the Lestene Brothers, which is also a known symbol in the history of Latvia, especially in the history of the Second World War. And it's only logical that, taking into account all the development of this complex, the municipality of Tukums will develop there this museum - an exposition that will tell about the tragic events of the Second World War in the history of Latvia that affect all Latvia; it will also tell about the Latvian legioners, whose graves are located right next to the museum and the church. And this museum, this church - it's a great opportunity... Please bring me together the two speaking times.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U182	The times of your debate are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U183	... It is a great and great opportunity here to carry out both military patriotic education work for Jaunsardze and local battalion national security forces, and therefore to develop this complex not only as a cultural complex, but also as an informational source of military and Latvian history. If someone is looking for any political interest here, then it should be stressed that Tukums Municipality is governed by a party that is not represented in the Saeima, but one of the... The vice-presidents have a representative of the opposition - what is currently in the parliament in opposition.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U184	The name to the Member Atm Lejny.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U185	Thank you, honourable Head of the sitting. Colleagues! I would just like to remind you that major road repairs have taken place this summer in Selia. A person who travels from Jaunjelgava to Neretta and Viesite could be sure of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U186	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U187	Mr. Lewis! Of course, I think it's... The authors of the resolution are certainly also aware of what road repair works are going on in Selia, without doubt. And that's why we need to read the resolution. There is a very clear picture of roads that unfortunately do not exist... no time has been found for repair. That is why there was also this proposal. With regard to this proposal, colleagues, I would like to say that the issue of Leschen is being discussed, in my view, with regard to every budget, and it is quite right that it is being talked about. Of course, I think it is high time that we found some normal solution to this issue, so that we do not have to do it through quotas. This is not the first time that this aid is provided through quotas. There have been years when this is happening in much larger volumes - not only in the amount of EUR 20 000, but in much larger amounts. And it's not really right. I will not take up talking about the historical importance of this place, nor about how important it is, especially today, but overall, of course, this proposal is to be welcomed. And, as Mr Janson rightly said, the Union of Greens/farmers is also under the leadership of the Tukums district. And we have this issue on a regular basis even before... regardless of the government... This issue has always come up for the time when the budget is being prepared. However, it would be normal for us to find a normal way to plan this aid in the ministries' budgets, because, by its very nature, the aid to Lesthene is provided annually; the priorities are different, perhaps there have been even breaks, but in principle it is provided regularly. And I think this support should be even greater. It should not be limited to these 20 thousand, it should be even larger. Help this place to sort it out. There is still quite a lot of work to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U188	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Bondar... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U189	The 197th proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U190	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 197. - the proposal from Members Dzintara, Pouce, Juša, Latkovska and Zakatistov! Please, let's vote! No, 64, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U191	198. - a proposal from Members Puce, Latkovska, Jušas and Indricksons. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U192	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U193	Yes, colleagues! Well, generously, those position Members, generously, to Members' quotas... There are 48 thousand granted to the municipality of Valka... also for targeted grants... Valka stadium runway, retail sector and gyms for the restoration of inventory. Well, that's a good goal... and will rise as well. But - is it only in this way necessary to address the problems related to the municipality of Valka? Once again, I will ask the same question: by which does Selija sin that Sēlia is not adequately provided with funding to ensure quality and availability... even the implementation of housing policy, by promoting the construction of new housing and reconstruction of existing buildings in the region? Then it is necessary to assess what its approaches are and for what purpose the budgetary resources are spent on. It cannot be that the government borrows, this borrowing money is loaded on the shoulders of all the taxpayers, on those who live in both Valka and also, for example, in the Rubenei Sēlia district, and Valka receives 48 thousand stadiums and inventory for reconstruction, but the needs of Selija are not met with the expenditure foreseen in this budget. Where does that make sense for all of it? Why, then, is the government needed, why is such a state apparatus needed, a public administration? Why, then, do we need to imagine some kind of system and also logic in the allocation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U194	Name of Member Evia Papulei. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U195	Madam President, Colleagues and colleagues! I would say that perhaps it is not the right way in which the border city is supported, but it is likely that the law on the territories of the Latvian countries could create, to some extent, a state aid programme for border settlements and cities. It's clear that the border... we are also aware of the mass media problems facing Valka as a city, both for financial reasons and because of the choice of the people's place of declaration, and it is understandable that the border city needs to be supported, we need to support it in addition, even so far... As I said once, the border is our security... And also, a bit of competition with neighbouring town Valga... We know that Valka is not just a border city, but is on the border and is a cooperation city - cooperates with the Estonian city Valga. It seems necessary to have a truly national approach, a national common strategic programme to support citizens living at the border. Latvia would only benefit from it. For thirty years, independent living, this kind of policy would be really important. To repeat: our Estonian neighbours are very serious about the border, about the population living in the border and support them in particular. If this was not a parliamentary quota, it would probably not be so much criticism. In any case, I will support this proposal because I regard it as one of the steps to support people living at the border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U196	Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U197	Dear President, Dear colleagues, I am also among those people who will support this particular proposal, because I believe that retail is the basis for all sports. But there's one "but". Indeed - what would be necessary in this budget debate? For the time being, we are actually coming to this and repeating that either the Minister of Education and Science or the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science should come up with a clear report: what stages are there other Latvian athletic stadiums, where investment is needed; what, following the administrative territorial reform, is the potential change in the regions in relation to the new administrative centres; where and how the schools are going to be near; whether something is going to be closed or not; what should be the purpose of organising these regional stadiums. I am not even talking about the capital city, where the maneuver of Lens is, now, under every criticism, but the new projects do not know why we have been wearing for years; it is shameful at all the Baltic level. Glad for regional manners. If we are talking about stadiums, runways, then: point one - potential investment throughout Latvia (to what extent?) , and the point two - of course, to now, during the pandemic, these stadiums and this infrastructure would be available to our children ( but that is already another story - in terms of restrictions). Indeed, I call on my colleagues to support this specific proposal. At the same time, I invite either the Ministers of Education and Science or the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, Sandis Riekstins (from the New Conservative Party) to get and apply for a debate and really tell about the development of sports infrastructure in Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U198	The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U199	I would just like to repeat and remind my colleagues that part of Valka's population is declared in Valga, working and receiving salaries in Estonia. The residents of Valka also benefit from alcohol outlets, which provide additional income to Valka as well as the corresponding Latvian state budget. However, the approach that the re-allocation mechanisms are distorted by Member's quotas, that it does not say or assess problems in the context of the needs of other cities is unjustified, deceptive and does not correspond to a sound and thorough host's approach in managing the state budget. Therefore, quotas as a species cannot be supported by redistributing the total public budget.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U200	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U201	Madam President, Colleagues and colleagues! Yes, I agree - I also said that the quota approach is not acceptable in terms of the principle. However, there are also examples that the people of Valka find a job in a neighbouring country in two ways: it is good that they find a job in a country, but it is sad that people choose to declare in a neighbouring country. But now... The European Union is the European Union. And so I repeat: this step can be considered as a small, small, small drop... one of the ways to support Latvia's inhabitants in the border town, so that they would appreciate that they would live in Valka... declare in Valga and perhaps work there as well - it is a free choice of people, but living in your city is convenient, pleasant and also responsible, because Latvia cares for them, the state also shows additional interest in sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U202	I closed the debate. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U203	Colleagues and colleagues: the 198th proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U204	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 198. - a proposal from Members Pouce, Latkovsky, Jušas and Indricksons! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U205	199. - a proposal from Members Puce, Latkovska, Jušas and Indricksons. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U206	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U207	Colleagues, EUR 54 878 - quota, where... it is not as though in political decision - to grant the municipality of Varakļāni a targeted grant for the restoration of the Varakļāni municipality’s “ Varakļāni” inventory. It must be understood that each of the quotas, each of these small or larger amounts (almost one million - for the Rēzekne Alley)... someone does not have the money provided. Either this is a medical reward, or the availability of medical doctors in the same Varakļāni, access to medical services (accessibility) for the same mayors, access to quality material (accessibility) in kindergartens in Varakļai by education and pre-school educators. It must also be understood that such an approach, when planning the use of public resources, is essentially unacceptable and should not be. The challenges need to be addressed in a systematic, inter-ministerial manner. Member's quotas - this is a devout instrument that catches voter voices. It is believed that this kind of little stuff and small money... Please combine the time of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U208	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U209	Thank you. It is believed that the money in this way, the small money, creates local people, voters, additional comfort, they remember it very well, they appreciate it very positively, and then they vote in favour of them. However, it must be understood that there are also more serious and serious problems, including those which are not resolved and whose solutions are not sought within the framework of this budget. Its problems are glaring, they are very important challenges facing society. Covid-19 highlighted a number of problems in the field of health care; preschool educators, educators and teachers were also brought to the first line of the fight. Have they found sufficient funding, competitive funding? Are the relevant digital materials provided to schools, which also show the whole problem? No, there's no funds! But there are almost two million euros in total in the parliamentary quotas: all this is being cut apart in small pieces, and each of them is allocated to their own - their constituents, their own region. It is also not fair for the people of other regions, nor for the whole country, which is facing all these global challenges, with all these challenges, and it does not ensure really national thinking and a national approach when spending public budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U210	Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U211	For the specific target grant for the Varakļāni district unit “ Varakšne”. In fact, the situation is similar to that of the renewal of the Valka stadium. In fact, it would be one of the tasks of the municipality - in cooperation with the state, but we have systematically, also in this budget, done everything to make municipal revenue fall, so that the municipalities no longer basket their social services... in any event, there would be serious problems with this to date due to reduced funding for municipalities. Then there would be – as a minimum – a need for representatives of the Ministry of Welfare, in cooperation with either the Latvian Municipal Union or with Latvian local governments, to be aware of this situation in Latvian homes in order to understand where and what is most needed and to decide on these priorities. Because here we distribute one personate, make it more specific than the rest, who may be in a much more critical condition than in the Varakļāni. Indeed - here it would be humane to explain why it is precisely for Varakļāni district; with which the particular branch is in a more critical position than other residents of the remote regions of Latvia. I will certainly vote in favour of this proposal, because it has been said and we must not be disappointed by people. But we also have to think about the whole country smoothly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U212	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Bondar... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U213	In the Commission, 199 the proposal was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U214	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 199. - a proposal from Members Pouce, Latkovsky, Jušas and Indricksons! Please, let's vote! No, 71, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U215	200. - the proposal from Member Lochmele. This is due to the transfer of contingency funds to targeted grants to municipalities, which in turn involves the supply of oxygen to hospitals. Thank you, but the proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U216	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U217	Hello, fellow Members, again! This proposal was an example of the role of the opposition. As you saw, I had two proposals. The first is to supply oxygen to two large hospitals - Paula Stradins Clinical University Hospital and Riga Eastern Clinical University Hospital. And this, second, proposal - to provide oxygen for the whole year to eight Latvian regional hospitals. The amount compared to the overall budget is very small - 184 thousand euros - but it could provide any regional hospital in Latvia - wherever it would be in Kurzeme, Vidzeme, Latgale, Zemgale, Selija, wherever it is - oxygen for the whole year. Let me tell you what's going on. In order to provide oxygen therapy for the Covid-19 patients, it is necessary to rent out oxygen cylinders - different volumes of balloons. And... Please bring me together the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U218	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U219	Here, and their volume is divided: the large university hospitals have the opportunity to connect and have large-volume oxygen cylinders, whereas the small hospitals only have smaller balloons. However, since large hospitals were a priority, large-volume balloons were delivered immediately to large hospitals and not to regional hospitals. And that's why it's regional hospitals that have a small amount of oxygen in the balloons. This amount... you could look at my proposal (there is an estimate - unlike other MEPs' quota proposals!) where it can be calculated precisely for the purposes for which each part of this amount is required. Thanks to this... I personally thank Member Ilmar Dūritis, who is the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Health and who took part in the examination of my second proposal at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission - all regional hospitals and their needs for the current Covid-19 treatment were identified the next day. At the moment, according to the information, the oxygen situation in regional hospitals has stabilised, but to some extent simply because the number of co-morbids has decreased. Given that another wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is possible next year, I believe that it is necessary to keep this amount in the budget column in order not to be next year...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U220	Thank you, thank you. I closed the debate. Mr Bondar, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U221	The 200th proposal was not supported by the Commission. Mr Dūris, as Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Health, said that the funds here are taken from the funds for unforeseen cases, if there is such a need. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission did not support the 200th proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U222	Please call me! Let's vote for 200. - Mrs. Regina Lochmele's proposal! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 32, it's against - 49, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U223	201 - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Family Union, which provides for the redistribution of funds from the proceeds of the fight against the shadow economy to the benefit of local authorities. The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U224	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U225	Dear President, Dear colleagues, This specific proposal is prepared together with the Latvian Education and Science Workers' Union. The essence of the proposal is to provide for funding for teachers from pre-school and other educational institutions who perform the duties of teacher mentor. At the same time, we draw attention to the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation No. 569 ‘Regulations on the education and professional qualifications required for teachers and the procedure for improving the professional competence of teachers’, point 5.1, which entered into force already on 1 December of the year 2020, in fact lays down this procedure, but does not provide for funding. There is indeed a big problem with their lack of funding. The Latvian Education and Science Workers' Union has pointed out this several times and invited the Ministry of Education and Science to find a solution, but has always received an answer that work on the development of the teacher's salary model will continue, which could also affect the teacher's mentor's duties and the procedure and amount of the salary calculation in the future. In other words, they receive regular promises, promises. However, if we are talking about teachers of pre-school education and other educational institutions, we need to understand - I think we already understand - that straight pre-school education is the basis for everything that children are prepared for primary school, primary school, secondary school and all other educational processes; that it is the basis for the Latvian education system. And that's why... Insufficient support for educators, although they ask... Especially in this case, when it comes to teachers who perform the duties of mentor, this is not right in our view. That is why we are asking for support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U226	Dear colleagues, We will continue the debate on proposal 201 after a longer break. We are going on a break from 12 noon to 13.30 due to the meeting of the European Commission on European Affairs. Members have been registered. I remind you again, we're coming back at 13:30. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U227	Dear Members, Honourable Members! We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. Looking at the annual state budget... and the second reading of the related draft laws. On the agenda - draft law “On the medium-term budgetary framework for 2022, 2023 and 2024”. We're looking at 201. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Family Union. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U228	Thank you. I ask you to combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U229	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U230	Dear colleagues, I call for this proposal to be supported and I would like to talk about three things. All three cases are directly related to this proposal. The first is that we are very positive that we have abandoned the night shifts when discussing the draft budget. This allows for an extended debate on all the proposals and also on separate budget lines. I am convinced that this is only a first step after many years, which should also be strengthened in the Rule of Procedure by providing for a special budgetary procedure, perhaps even two second readings, because it is important to separate the objectives of the programmes, the sources of funding and the funding to be allocated. The second thing is that the budget, as always, is a road map that shows how the country will live, how the people they can expect in the coming years will live. It is therefore very important to follow all the points of view, because all of us - the position, the opposition - are equally interested in making the road work effectively so that the results can be better achieved. And in this case, I feel it is necessary to abandon the principle, which is unfortunately not just being used for the examination of the budget - 'I am the leader - you are a fool', because it is very far from the principles of parliamentaryism - the principles of good parliamentaryism. And the third thing. Each budget has a number of objectives to be achieved. Today's main objective, which is achievable and which should be achieved, is a victory in the fight against the pandemic, because it should be subject to all resources, all methods, all methods - all, including financing. Unfortunately, this budget is quite far from achieving this objective, although, when it comes to a number of proposals, including this proposal, it is aimed at ensuring the life and health of children. It should therefore be supported. I have to say that it is very important to talk about the ways of victory that you consider necessary... in the budget position and coalition Members, it would be very important to remember their old song... and, don't give God those principles to be implemented there...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U231	Mr Dolgopolov... Time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U232	... John Brown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U233	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U234	Dear President, Dear colleagues, This proposal and the medium-term budget as a whole. Colleagues, I call for support for this proposal, but I cannot support this medium-term budget as a whole, because, firstly, the country's external debt during this budget has been poorly increased without a vision of giving it back. Secondly. The salaries of President Levite, ministers and members of the Saeima and their annexes are great in space, which cannot be said of either medical or educator, or of the salaries of the staff of the structure of home affairs. Third. There is practically no support for households affected by the housing and energy crisis. Four. Even the promises made by politicians in previous years to eliminate parliamentary quotas have been wrongfully violated. These quotas have been updated. And finally. Remember that if you think that this budget for our pre-elections will produce results, I think it will not, this budget may turn out to be a stone in the neck of Latvian society.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U235	The debate is closed. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U236	The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U237	Please call me! We will vote for 201. - the proposal put forward by the Group of the Greens/Family Union! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U238	And finally, proposal 202. It comes from the Cabinet of Ministers. This is supported by the Commission. Request to support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U239	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U240	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Colleagues and colleagues! I agree that, when it comes to this proposal, it is strange that it is formulated in this way to help those municipalities where the socio-economic situation of the population is probably the worst. However, when we look at the budget as a whole - the medium-term budget as a whole - it is clear that this will be adjusted, this is always the case. Therefore, the assessment of this medium-term budgetary framework is a vision of the government and coalition to meet their needs. It is very good that this will be corrected and probably serious. It's a game, theoretically. At the very least, health is a priority, and yet - using opportunities where there is so much money as never before, the coalition has already been able to solve at least one major problem, and that would be a health system that was really not good and where the situation of the community showed a great many aspects. Not only that it is a bad system, but also that, in the case of the Kraha, it is actually enough with one, also a small, wind blow. This budget does not solve any of the big priorities. If health were to be resolved, one could not talk about education, hoping that in the next medium-term budget the next Saeima would include support for education and science, because then Latvia would have shown how to deal with problems pragmatically. The next budgets will again, to some extent, have to address health problems, including oncology problems. And I hope it is a lesson for the future Members: let us tackle one problem, as experts suggest, and then we will gradually be able to solve many big ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U241	The name of Member Janina Yalinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U242	Dear President, Colleagues and colleagues! Yes, we are indeed approaching the adoption of the law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2022, 2023 and 2024. All the proposals have been examined and, of course, these proposals were parliamentary quotas... Members' quotas - bicycle and pedestrian paths; fields for associations, memorial sites, children's playgrounds; purchase of computer equipment and so on, and so on. Of course, there is the question whether it is good or bad. It is bad that the coalition returned to Members' quotas. It is wrong that very good proposals in the medical field have not been supported. It is bad that municipalities are divided between themselves and strangers, and divided municipalities are, of course, very bitter about this budget. Working in the municipality for a long time, I have always been against these quotas, because it's just... I will not say that Sanaid municipalities, but there are always accusations from municipalities, why one municipality has these parliamentary quotas and the other does not. But it is good that these funds, these Members' quotas, have reached the territories of local governments... to the municipalities, to the regions. And that is why I also voted in favour of all these parliamentary quotas that concern regions. If we are talking about this Cabinet of Ministers - 202. - the proposal must, of course, say something better here than anything, because this equalisation, when the revenue is less than EUR 800 per capita...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U243	Time. The debate is closed. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U244	In the Commission, proposal 202 was supported. Request to support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U245	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 202. - A proposal from the Cabinet! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U246	Colleagues, we have examined all 202 proposals for the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2022, 2023 and 2024, so we must vote in favour of the draft law as a whole. I call for this to be supported, because it was supported by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U247	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the second final reading of the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2022, 2023 and 2024! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. The next draft law on the agenda of the sitting – On the state budget 2022, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U248	As mentioned by the Chair of the sitting, we have an urgent draft law for the second reading, “On the state budget for 2022”. It must be... 232 proposals, yes. 1. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported. Request to support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U249	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U250	2. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The Commission was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U251	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U252	3. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U253	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U254	4. - Alda Gobzem's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U255	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U256	Hello, dear people! Hello, colleagues! Hello, all Latvian municipalities! This proposal concerns the re-allocation of budget resources to municipalities. I propose that more than 100 million municipalities be re-directed with one logical objective. This winter, many people in Latvia will have to pay inexpensive utility bills, “due to” expensive electricity, gas and the fact that utility bills are simply objective... disproportionate increases due to unremoveable OICs and similar. Instead of enabling people to help, municipalities have actually taken out the funds. About half (if not more) of Latvia's inhabitants live not only in the capital Riga and not only eat from the state budget, but receive support from local governments throughout Latvia. Therefore, this proposal is absolutely logical, it is not only helpful for representatives of local governments, it is helpful for the whole of Latvian society, and funding should not be sought anywhere. Please support, dear people. Please support this proposal, members of the coalition, and if you do not support it, please explain (what do you, of course, do not do), why do you reject aid to the people of Latvia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U257	I closed the debate. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U258	Proposal 4The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U259	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Member Alda Gobzema's proposal! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U260	5. - a proposal from Members Dombrovskis, Papules, Girgen and Pucken. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U261	Members have requested a vote on this proposal. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - the proposal tabled by Members Dombrovskis, Papules, Girgen and Pucken! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U262	6. - The Greens/Farmers' Union proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U263	There is no vote either, because it is equal to zero as the unsupported proposal 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U264	7. - Member Gobzem's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U265	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U266	8 / 8 - The Greens/Farmers' Union proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U267	Members have requested a vote on proposal 8. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - the proposal put forward by the Group of the Greens/Family Union! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U268	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The numbering of the following articles has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U269	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U270	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U271	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U272	11. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal of the Group on Homeland and Freedom/LNNK. Partially supported, included 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U273	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U274	12. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal of the Group on Homeland and Freedom/LNNK. Is supported, included in 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U275	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U276	13. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U277	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U278	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U279	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U280	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U281	Members have requested a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 15. - the proposal put forward by the Group of the Greens/Family Union! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U282	16. - The Greens/Farmers' Union proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U283	Members have requested a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - the proposal put forward by the Group of the Greens/Family Union! Please vote mode! - 29, 50, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U284	17. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U285	The vote has been requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - the proposal put forward by the Group of the Greens/Family Union! Please vote mode! - 30, 51, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U286	18. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U287	The vote has been requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. - the proposal put forward by the Group of the Greens/Family Union! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U288	19. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U289	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U290	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U291	The vote has been requested. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 20. - the proposal put forward by the Group of the Greens/Family Union! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U292	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U293	Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 21. - the proposal put forward by the Group of the Greens/Family Union! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U294	22. - the proposal from Member Lochmele. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U295	The vote has been requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 22. - Mrs Regina Lochmele's proposal! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U296	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - my colleague Lochmele's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U297	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U298	24. - my colleague Pimenova's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U299	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U300	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! I ask you to unite the times.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U301	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U302	Thank you. Dear Members, Honourable Members! I tabled six proposals for the draft annual budget. These are not proposals for reallocation of planned budget funds and new expenditure, but contain tasks for the Cabinet of Ministers to develop or implement such proposals, including changes in tax policy, in order to increase budget revenue and reduce social inequality. With this proposal, 24, I propose that the Cabinet of Ministers be asked by 15 July 2022... that the minimum monthly wage is reviewed on a regular basis, assess its compliance with the European Commission's proposal for a directive on adequate minimum wage in the European Union, as well as its compliance with the Latvian national position and set the minimum monthly wage for 2023 according to the following criterion: 60 per cent of the median gross wage and 50 per cent of the average gross wage. Of course, it is important to take systematic account of the economic consequences of increasing the minimum wage. There's a story about it. However, there are serious reasons for establishing a minimum wage. Businesses are interested in keeping wages to the lowest possible level in order to reduce their costs, so employees have always fought against it because, by creating a business-friendly environment at the expense of the most vulnerable workers, they are forced into poverty. That is why Latvia and the European Commission have submitted in principle a proposal for a directive on an adequate minimum wage in the European Union. This year's minimum monthly salary is 500 euros. On the basis of data on the median monthly gross wages in 2020, we can calculate the minimum wage for 2022 - at least EUR 536 and one year later - even higher. However, the minimum monthly wage in Latvia is lower this year than in the neighbouring countries. In Estonia it is EUR 584, in Lithuania it is EUR 642. In other European countries - even more so. Therefore, the collective application “Minimum salary in the amount of 630 euros” submitted to the Saeima is understandable. The Saeima decided to submit the application for evaluation to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, but did not support the initiative. Only the purpose of the application is fully in line with the European Commission's proposal and the aim of Latvia's position and is in line with its reasoning. Please support my proposal in line with the collective initiative of Latvian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U303	I closed the debate. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U304	Thank you to my colleague, Pimenov, but the 24th proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U305	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 24. - Member Igora Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U306	25. - a proposal from my colleague, Pimenova. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U307	We launched a debate on the proposal. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U308	Driver, please also combine the times.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U309	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U310	Dear colleagues, Five years ago, 10 213 Latvian citizens’ collective application “For free meals in kindergartens” was submitted to the Saeima. In the meantime, some municipalities themselves have already taken decisions on free meals in kindergartens, as the representative of Latvian municipalities in the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes) confirmed, however, from her speech, even though optimistic, it was possible to conclude that not all municipalities can ensure free meals in kindergartens. Moreover, in the budget of 2021, as we know, personal income tax revenue for municipal budgets was reduced by five percentage points - to 65 per cent of the total income of personal income tax. Public financial support for families is one of the foundations of family stability. Free and guaranteed meals in kindergartens are one of the most important forms of this support, and the more children in the family, the more free food support makes it easier for the family to support the household, it can even encourage parents to return to the labour market. It would also motivate families to think about family growth. It is unacceptable that some municipalities already provide free meals in kindergartens, but not elsewhere. This significantly increases the inequality between families living in different regions. The only reasonable solution for guaranteed free meals in kindergartens in all municipalities is a state-targeted grant. Free meals for children must be provided in every city and region under all circumstances. It is possible that specialists of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and government politicians will find another solution to grant funding for the collective application of Latvian citizens, so I did not name specific budget expenditure, but with this proposal I propose to instruct the Cabinet of Ministers to submit to the Saeima before 1 July next year a solution for granting funding to the Latvian citizens’ collective application for free meals in kindergartens (No. 529/Lm13). Please support my proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U311	I closed the debate. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U312	25. proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U313	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 25. - Member Igora Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U314	26. - a proposal from my colleague, Pimenova. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U315	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U316	This proposal, 26, is not about spending the budget, but about a measure that would ensure an increase in the revenue of the budget. Increasing tax execution requires a push to speed up economic development, an increase in total investment. The total investment should reach 32 per cent of gross domestic product every year, but Latvia's forecast for the following year is 24 per cent. It is public investment that is needed, as it is an indicator of investment safety. Private investment is always welcome to follow the public. And I stress - as the German Development Bank, KfW, is working like a state-run development bank - to become a provider of public investment. Development banks have no principle bans in EU legislation, so the development bank, or the Development Finance Institution Altum, already exists. Altum can borrow and lend money, but without a multiplier because it does not have a bank license. The State-owned development bank has the ability to borrow on the capital market not only with state guarantees, but also without them. Altum, in turn, would guarantee the loans of commercial banks, thus promoting more and more the granting of loans by commercial banks. My proposal does not need money from the budget. I propose to instruct the Cabinet of Ministers to evaluate the possibility of establishing a state development bank within its remit and to submit to the Saeima a reasoned report on the results of the evaluation. Please support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U317	The debate is closed. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U318	Thank you. 26. - Mrs Pimenova's proposal was not supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U319	Please call me! To be put to the vote on 26. - Member Igora Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U320	27. - a proposal from my colleague, Igora Pimenova. This proposal, too, did not support the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U321	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U322	I ask you to combine the two times.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U323	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U324	The next three proposals are not about redeploying the planned budget and new expenditure, but about the systemic changes that are needed in tax policy in order to increase revenue and reduce social inequalities. Now the differential exemption from personal income tax. The differentiated non-expensive minimum is only a pale shadow from what needs to be done to remove Latvia from the club of countries with the greatest social inequality. And the reason is that social inequality (although recognised as a problem in Latvia) is reproduced in the market system and lives peacefully with measures taken to eliminate inequality. The differentiated non-expensive minimum as a means of simulating this struggle is particularly challenging. It is not enough that the differentiated exclusionary minimum is difficult to administer, difficult to explain and even harder to understand by taxpayers. It is a very weak means of reducing social inequalities, because it will affect all workers whose monthly wages do not exceed €1,800, but it will not apply at all to those with higher incomes. And that is the main reason why the differentiated non-taxable minimum is powerless to reduce inequalities. As a tax policy instrument, it was intended in the old Western Democrats to protect the interests of the huge recipients of income who earn their wages and profits, largely thanks to free market competition and free movement of money, not just to their talents and sensitivities, and do not even want to subject income to progressive taxation, which is an incomparably more effective tool to reduce social inequality. Such a revitalisation of tax policy - a hypocritical substitute for a true progressive tax - is still working. I propose to take a step towards strengthening real progress in taxation of personal income and introducing a zero rate of income equal to the minimum annual wage instead of the differentiated non-taxable minimum, and with this aim to establish that the Cabinet is to submit to the Saeima a draft law amending the law on personal income tax by the last date of submission of the next annual budget. I call for my proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U325	I closed the debate. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U326	In the Commission, proposal 27 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U327	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 27. - Member Igora Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U328	28. - a proposal from my colleague, Pimenova. This was not supported either.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U329	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U330	Dear colleagues, Four years ago (A Sound Break.) ... The Kučinska Government introduced progressive personal income tax rates. Although the rates vary little from one another, compared to the tax rate scale recommended by the World Bank Working Group and the OECD or OECD (Latvian) countries' best practice, it is nevertheless a progressive tax. The amount of income that exceeds the rates changes is two, namely, annual income - 20 004 euros per month or 1667 euros per month and annual income for the maximum amount of mandatory deposit objects - this year 62 800 euros or 5233 euros per month. Since the introduction of progressive tax rates, average wages have increased by less than 24 percent in the month. Accordingly, the monthly salary of some taxpayers has exceeded EUR 1667 and the tax rate has increased from 20 per cent to 23 per cent. At the time - when the progressive scale was introduced in 2017, 20 per cent of the taxpayers paid tax at the rate - about 90 per cent. The tax burden can therefore be allowed to rise for a large proportion of taxpayers within less than four years. To avoid this, personal income tax progressivity must be applied adaptive to wage changes, income thresholds above which rates change must be set according to the number of annual averages rather than fixed amounts. The income interval thresholds should be in line with OECD practice.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U331	Time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U332	Please combine my time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U333	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U334	This practice has proved its effectiveness. The rates should be set at the following income intervals: up to one and a half times the annual average wage; above one and a half times the annual average wage but not exceeding four times the annual average wage; thirdly, above four times the annual average wage. I propose to instruct the Cabinet of Ministers to submit to the Saeima a draft law on amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax, stating that the annual taxable income is taxed according to the number of annual average wages. Please support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U335	I closed the debate. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U336	The 28th proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U337	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 28. - Member Igora Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U338	And finally 29. - the final proposal of my colleague, Pimenova. It was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U339	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U340	The Head of the sitting, I ask you to combine the times as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U341	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U342	I am sorry that the commission manager found no words to somehow describe my proposal, but maybe I'll try to... by itself. That is my last proposal. We are approaching the end of the marathon of the budget debate, it is a short moment in epology to conclude on the main problems facing the country, which have become particularly acute in the pandemic. These are two: where to get money for investment, and how to reduce social inequality. People hate inequality. It led to all the unrest and revolutions. Vulnerable people's anger leads to a variety of forms: student demonstrations and strikes in France in 1968, as well as the sudden victory of Trampa, and the protests of modern anti-vaccines are also the roots of the disgusting people's anger. Progressive tax is the basis not only for justice but also for the stability of the country. Meanwhile, the application of progressiveity in Latvia is slow and inconsistent, trying not to harm the recipients of high wages. The principle of excellence applies to wages but does not apply to dividends. If the company's profits are distributed into dividends, they are taxed at 20 per cent, and this rate does not progress, it is a flat rate and coincides with the lowest personal income tax rate. Latvia remains a country where it is cheap to be rich. And here's also the answer, where to take money for teachers' and health professionals' salaries: dividends are subject to income tax, the principle of progressivity must be applied. The system must be reformed and start with the differentiated non-taxable minimum and the abolition of the solidarity tax. All this construction needs to be replaced by a single progressive personal income tax. I call on colleagues to support my proposal and to stipulate that the Cabinet of Ministers will submit to the Saeima, before the date of submission of the 2023 budget, a draft law on the abolition of the Solidarity Tax Act, together with a draft law on amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax and a draft law on amendments to the Law on Corporate Income Tax, which will ensure the application of the principle of progressiveity from 1 January 2023 to all types of personal income, including capital gains and capital gains, in relation to personal income tax. Please support me. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U343	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U344	Dear colleagues, It is difficult to understand why these proposals should be rejected. Either the coalition is afraid of overloading the Cabinet of Ministers or you think that the Minister IQ is low enough to understand Mr Pimenova's proposals. I call on you to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U345	I closed the debate. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U346	I thank Mr Pimenova for his very thorough explanation of all his proposals. In the Commission, the 29th proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U347	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 29. - Member Igora Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! It's not about - 20, it's against - 51, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U348	30. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U349	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U350	31. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U351	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U352	32. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U353	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U354	33. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U355	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U356	34. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U357	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U358	35. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U359	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U360	36. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U361	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U362	37. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U363	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U364	38. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U365	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U366	39. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U367	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U368	40. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U369	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U370	41. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U371	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U372	42. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U373	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U374	43. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal of the Group on Homeland and Freedom/LNNK. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U375	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U376	44. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U377	Members call for a vote. Please call me! To be put to the vote on 44. - the proposal put forward by the Group of the Greens/Family Union! Please vote mode! Not for - 23, not for - 50, refrain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U378	45. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U379	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U380	46. - Member Gobzem's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U381	The vote has been requested. Please call me! We will vote for 46. - Member Alda Gobzema's proposal! Please vote mode! It's not about 19, it's against 50, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U382	47. - Member Gobzem's proposal. The Commission did not receive any aid and was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U383	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U384	Dear people! I tried to force... Debate last time... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I will debate this point. That is the situation. As soon as the Saeima voted, literally... on the previous proposal - to understand you, people - that President Levit will have a grand piano of 180 thousand. What the press says - that it will not - is not true. Just in the second reading, the budget voted for the grand piano and the Constitutional Court party, and for whom there is not yet... Three seas... Council and the like. The same applies to all of me... We've been talking about these issues once when we look at the budget, now they're meeting... Considering that they are in fact in two laws (in this ‘On the state budget for 2022’ and in it the previous three-year budget)... there actually they repeat. So this time, I will not spend a long time in the debate on this matter, but let you understand, dear people: the Saeima voted for Levi to have a grand piano for 180 thousand euros. Flick! Not much of what's going on in there? A piece of paper? And the Karin will sing? And what, I don't think Levit will do on that grand piano -- that's what interests me most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U385	I closed the debate. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U386	In the Commission, the 47th proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U387	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 47. - Member Alda Gobzema's proposal! Please vote mode! It's not about 17, it's against 50, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U388	48. - Member Gobzem's proposal. No aid was granted to the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U389	Members have requested a vote on the 48th proposal. Mr Gobzem also wants to debate. Please, the name of Member Aldim Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U390	Dear people! Foreign Ministry, diplomatic missions and everything else. I would ask you to reduce these expenses accordingly and not to spend as much as you say, don't take as much, because Rinkēvičs doesn't have to fly in the business class from Finland to Riga and don't take that VIP transfer from Riga Airport to Audi A8 to the terminal - it's not necessary. You can fly in the economic class. Number one, if. For two years, the diplomatic corps has settled in its underwear at home. They don't need extra. They haven't done anything... once had damaged relations and thus reduced economic opportunities for Latvia. And another thing that is very important in this regard. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has budgeted the same thing at the President's Registry - that's three seas... Summit. This is what I was talking about last time. Half a million there, half a million there - just to trample your money, dear people, so a light hand. And just because you're not up. It's time for us to get up and stop being angry and complaining over the Internet. The only thing they fear is that people actually go to the streets. They're really afraid of that. They are not afraid of anything else, but they are afraid of it. So they scare you with penalties, scare you with the fact that you're there without QR codes in options and the like. That's what they're afraid of, not that you're taking it and calling Karina five times. They don't care. Remember this, dear people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U391	The debate is closed. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U392	In the Commission 48 the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U393	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 48. - Member Gobzem's proposal! Please vote mode! It's not about 19, it's against 52, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U394	49. - Member Gobzem's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U395	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U396	50. - Member Gobzem's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U397	Members agree... Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U398	Yes, Mrs Lībiņa-Egnere, I have a request for you - maybe don't run your wheels forward because...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U399	Mr Gobzema, the chairman of the sitting is not allowed to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U400	... Yes, purely technically be able to press “Require a vote” and apply for a debate when you...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U401	You can apply for a debate in advance.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U402	So remember that if, please... I understand that you want to drive through everything, but in one word, remember... Fiscal Discipline Board... Fiscal discipline doesn't have to be respected at all; it can borrow as much as you want. Whatever you want! They also borrow as much as they want - seven billion or so - many, very many money that... It is not enough to treat patients in the community, there is not enough nurses, there is not enough firemen, there is not enough police, there is not enough fence, there is not enough police... Nothing is enough, nothing at all! Seven billions have already been borrowed, but nothing is enough. Who's enough? A new post is enough for the hospital manager. So the stress in the hospital is that this high - ranking specialist will now be able to work in another additional position, since the load in the hospitals is such that another member of the board is needed. You know why? Likely, all these big hospital purchases have ended. Now the big Fender will be in those forests. And the Board of Fiscal Discipline has been silent for these two years, quiet... It is a pointless, pointless bureaucratic institution. It has to be eliminated. There is absolutely no point in it. There are bureaucracies that work with some Excel tables, no one takes it into account. For what? It also depends on the government. What the government will say, they'll write that in those papers. A pointless institution that spends your money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U403	The debate is closed. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U404	Proposal 50 was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U405	Please call me! Let's vote for 50. - Member Alda Gobzema's proposal! Please vote mode! No, 18, no, 51, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U406	51. - Member Gobzem's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U407	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U408	Yeah, I guess I can say what I want. The proposal is about the Fiscal Discipline Council, which I have already spoken about in the 50th proposal, because it was about the reallocation of budget resources from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which does not eliminate to the end the OIC, which should have been eliminated long ago if. But now, when it comes to the Fiscal Discipline Council... Let's talk like that from the point of view of such a society. Dear Society, Dear Omes, listening to Latvian Radio, where 90 percent praise you Karina and 10... nine percent give the opposition to talk... In fact, they don’t know what the word “Opinion” is... or on Latvian Television - similar, it is distributed about that. Dear Omes, have you heard once in there that the Board of Fiscal Discipline would have shouted for one disproportionate spending? For one disproportionate euro? We have borrowed more than Estonia in these few years than Estonia in 30 years. And our economic situation is much worse than in Estonia. It's worse than in Lithuania. And I think we will soon no longer even be compared with Romania. But we have a Board of Fiscal Discipline, which says nothing, because there is simply no fiscal discipline. And maybe you shouldn't. You have to be allowed to steal everything until the last one - steal everything! It may be that then those omees and those opos who listen to the Latvian Radio and watch LTV1, where the brain is washed from morning to evening, will also wake up, seeing their children and grandchildren leave Latvia in the same direction. Well, maybe finally, those who have been flushed out of the brain will wake up. You do not see that Latvia is dying, “due to” such councils of fiscal discipline that do not do anything? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U409	The debate is closed. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U410	In the Commission, 51 proposals were not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U411	Please call me! We will vote for 51. - Member Alda Gobzema's proposal! Please vote mode! 15, 51, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U412	52. - the proposal made by Member Gobzem, which was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U413	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U414	Now I look at those votes... I am looking forward to the CFP, as it is going to that government of Unity. They vote something like that power, not the way the opposition should vote. Well, there's some... there its opposition to the system as it is. This has already happened in reality - if there were a real opposition, then this power would have been dropped for a long time, but since we only have a system of opposition that, in some way, flirs all the time with this corrupt, corrupt power, we also live in a country that is the last place in all economic indicators. And in the Ministry of Agriculture, by the way, what farmers should yell the most... not because... just give me money, we're gonna spend something there, give it back to some big farmers or something else... Look at the budget where it is spent. All over Latvia, such floods are or natural disasters - 50 million more are now... that there will liero all Latvia, or what it will do... Will the beavers be given, or what will it be? You can't really understand it if you do. Because no such thing has already happened in Latvia, no such natural cataclysm has happened. It is simply once again a brutal extortion of taxpayers' funds. Well, the National Association needs, there's the Gerhards Minister, I guess, sometimes he's there, now at least in formal numbers, that's... Well, then give me 50 or how many million, right? but he'll figure out where to spend. Approximately so, the budget is being prepared, and when the vote is to be taken, then it's not like the penguins are at each other's side, but it's... Maybe you take that government to the corrupt corrupts. That is our opposition. And that's fair: to say so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U415	I closed the debate. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U416	Proposal 52 was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U417	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 52. - Member Alda Gobzema's proposal! Please vote mode! It's not about 19, it's against 53, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U418	53. - Member Gobzem's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U419	Member Gobzem has made written contributions to the debate on the proposals from 51 to 60 (including). Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U420	Yeah. It's about the Ministry of Transport so... from the Ministry of Transport... Clearly, the roads must be repaired, there is no doubt about it, but there is one little, a little “but”. In this particular case, when there is no precise explanation of where the funds will be spent, then give Linita and the parliamentary secretary, who told the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission about the fact that a bus can drive during the winter when the windscreen has been broken... on a bus, you can drive with a windshield, if... such persons lead the Ministry of Transport... then there is a very dubious budget line that we are talking about at all in the transport sector. And it is important to emphasise in this context that the transport sector should at all be able to allocate funds only after this minister begins to show some results in terms of the arrangement of transit, the arrangement of railways, the influx of goods to Latvia, and not (not to be heard). ... And that's the spirit. And then when those results were, it would also make sense to give money, otherwise giving any funds to these illiterates is just... Well, it's really a criminal act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U421	I closed the debate. Mr. Butane, the name is yours. Please sign up in time! Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U422	Yes, I just wanted to say that Alda Gobzem's proposal does not just mean taking away funding... to put public roads in order, but in principle very many people would lose their jobs because of this proposal, because they would not have the opportunity to work on construction and road repair, so they would not support Alda Gobzem's proposal, because I believe that the state should also take care of people by giving them a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U423	I closed the debate. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U424	Proposal 53 was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U425	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 53. - Member Alda Gobzema's proposal! Please vote mode! No, 15, 52, abstaining. The proposal is not supported. I'm sorry! Dear Members... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Please enable the hearing manager view... Dear Members, Honourable Members! The Saeima Bureau has received a request from Members Možvillo, Petraviča, Sprūde, Nemiro, Krapāne, Stepanenko, Svekova, Gobzem, Pucenas and Tawar to set the time for the debate at the second remote extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 15 November 2021 - five minutes, speaking for the first time, and two minutes, speaking for the second time. We must vote on this request. Please enable “On procedure”. Member Aldis Gobzems has applied to speak. Mr Gobzem, are you going to talk about it or about it?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U426	I will talk about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U427	The word 'for' - Member Aldim Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U428	So I ask for five minutes to discuss the national budget for 2022. There are 150 proposals left, and it is absolutely clear that there will be no change in whether the budget is adopted today, tonight, without a debate, or whether the budget is adopted, for example, on Friday, with a clear explanation to the public of every position. Why? This is necessary for a number of reasons. The first and most important reason is that the budget in the Saeima... it is from year to year, and it is absolutely wrong, and it is not about position or opposition, but... in a normal country where all people would like the country to be better... to give the Members a timely budget to have such a real discussion, not as we have - there is some half a day there when they can submit proposals, and then there is about three minutes when they can be discussed by the commissions, and that is all. And nobody understands anything - journalists do not understand nothing, society does not understand nothing, there is some budget, there are some tables and so on. And then there remains a debate in the Saeima, in which Members are not given time to speak on the substance. And the budget is the document where every Member of the largest court speaks of every proposal of the budget, from every one of them, basically the opposition, from a party (even though it is a formal or systemal opposition), instead of talking about some of his own political statements, but essentially from every proposal. This has been proven throughout the years when looking at the budget. And at a time when Latvia actually borrows the most, when our people are in debt the most, compared to our closest neighbours, without giving any clear solution, the vision of how we will reach neighbouring countries, how we will overturn it - there is no one at all, how we will make it - there is nothing at all. It is only about how to borrow, how to divide, redistribute, not how to earn, how to become rich, independent, after all, that there is no discussion at all about this. In fact, the Saeima has become such a long time ago - long ago! - but it will only prove more and more every year (A sound defect.) ... a bureaucratic institution, like the Board of Fiscal Discipline, which makes no sense. If it were not the Saeima as such, we would not only save the budget for all the Members' salaries, for all the staff's salaries and for all the others, but we would also save time because in fact no debate takes place. The main task of Parliament, the main task of Members, is to debate - to talk, to criticise, because, as we know, the truth is born and, consequently, society is much more informed. Also those oves that rinse the brain with Latvian Radio 1 would be much more informed, and they would be much more informed about how they are. And they could appreciate much more. And at such an open discussion, the position would also be forced to engage in high-quality budget discussions, because a high-quality budget would mean state development. It doesn't matter... because I personally would not regret that the position parties also do something right and good. It's not that you've given money there and it's bad. No, it's not. But if you just steal brutal money... You say that you spend 500 million on the treatment of the community's patients, but you really steal, then you have to talk about it. But if you gave you 40 million nurses, it's okay. But no problem! Who's sorry about that? Nobody would be sorry! This is the problem that exists in Parliament. And the position thinks... It is, in general, a division - a position, an opposition - particularly at the time of the adoption of the budget - that is counter-national, that is illegal by nature. All that thinking... People have to understand that to think... position... How can it be that there are Members who exclude a third or even a large number of Members from the decision and completely ignore large societies... the interests of the electoral part? It's not normal, it's illegal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U429	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the request made by Members Možvillo, Petraviča, Sprūde, Nemiro, Krapāne, Stepanenko, Schvekova, Gobzema, Pucena and Taukara at the Saeima's second remote emergency session on 15 November 2021 to determine the time of the debate - five minutes, speaking for the first time, and two minutes, speaking for the second time! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So this proposal has been rejected, and the Saeima has decided to stick to the decision taken in the past, speaking in three debates... So two minutes for the first time and one minute for the second time, so together do not exceed three minutes. Before we continue the debate on the proposals that have been tabled, I would also like to inform you that the Saeima Bureau has received a request to give the floor on the procedure for Member Ramona Petraviča. Mrs Petravič, please apply. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U430	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Please note, however, that we are working remotely and reducing the pace by giving at least a few seconds to be able to request a vote. I understand that there is a desire to push through the budget as soon as possible, but it is already a reduced time for the debate, so please let me at least apply for a debate or apply for a vote, because I have had several times to press the 'Requiring a vote', but you are on the next point. Internet communications too certainly need a couple of seconds before a vote request appears on your screen. Why, after all, can we not work here at all to have a full debate and a high-quality job? We've all been vaccinated. Unvaccinated workers are not even given the opportunity to work remotely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U431	Thank you. I would like to remind everyone once again that working in a remote mode and following the sitting requires a great deal of concentration, so it is indeed a request for all of us to focus on the proposals under consideration, but you can also apply in advance for both a debate and a vote if necessary. You have all been informed of the arrangements for doing so. Moreover, this is not the first remote sitting. For my part, I assure you that I will continue to keep track of the information I have here in the monitor, wait for these seconds and I will continue to do so. I look forward to your understanding, but if you definitely want to debate or request a vote and know... on a proposal, I also call for it to be presented in advance, as Mr Gobzem has also tabled and applied for his proposals. Mr Gobzem, if you want to talk about the procedure, you have to apply for an e-mail. So we shall continue to talk about the proposals that have been tabled, to debate the proposals. We are on proposal 54. The name is Mr Bondara on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U432	54. - Mr Gobzem's proposal, which was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U433	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U434	What my colleague, Ramona Petraviča, said is absolutely true. You can't just technically be able to press those buttons to pass the signal to you. It's simply impossible. For the rest. You don't want to debate. You already have democracy... You've already guessed it, shook it. What is the point of debate? About what? Well, get in the circle! Well, you don't have to debate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U435	The debate is closed. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U436	54. - Member Gobzem's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U437	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 54. - Member Alda Gobzema's proposal! Please vote mode! No, 17, 51, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U438	55. - Member Gobzem's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U439	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Mr Gobzem, you have applied in writing, but you have to press another button “Apply”. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U440	Well, I will say this now for every proposal. There is no point in debating in the Latvian Parliament. The Latvian Parliament is a pointless institution. pointless, anti-democratic institution. It makes no sense to debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U441	The debate is closed. The name of the Member, Bondar, on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U442	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U443	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 55. - Member Alda Gobzema's proposal! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U444	56. - Member Gobzem's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U445	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U446	56. Proposal on State Control. On the State Audit Office, which has allowed billions to be stolen in two years. Billions! Only because the Ombudsperson is actually linked to the Unity. I hope that once again, the State Audit Office will be called to account for the fact that it simply allows our country to be stolen. For them, the budget? About what? Why? All the positions where there are simply pointless spending, all the quotas of Members, everything. Where is the Auditor General? He had to be on Latvian Television and Panorama, Latvian Radio every night. Where is he? Drink wine with the top politicians of Unity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U447	The debate is closed. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U448	Proposal 56 was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U449	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 56. - Member Alda Gobzema's proposal! Please vote mode! 15, 51, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U450	57. - Member Gobzem's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U451	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U452	57. Proposal on the Constitutional Court. I will remind you that the Constitutional Court, where some centenary party in general is budgeted... Something about a hundred... up to half a million. Ballet! For the general summer. In honour of 100 years of Constitutional Court. Why? The Constitutional Court deals with painting... or with sauna procedures? The President of the Constitutional Court Mr Osipova had to put on the full press, the press bought from the power, that human rights in Latvia have been abolished, that people are released from work for the fact that they simply do not allow to manipulate their body. That people are starting to divide as before the Second World War. That the Saeima does not allow Members to vote. Where is its Chairman of the Constitutional Court? The Constitutional Court is not intended only to defend young children of gay family. The Constitutional Court is intended to protect all Latvian citizens - all! - I emphasize. Those members of the opposition that are not admitted to the Saeima, too. Yeah, Julia Stepanenko, who left my party, too. Why would she not be able to participate in the budget? With what right did you turn him off? Democracy? Where are you, Mrs Osipova? Bring me this time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U453	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U454	Sanita Osipova, you were my lecturer at the University of Latvia. Quite arrogant, admitted, already at that time. But now where are you? Prove that you are for all the people of Latvia, that you are for democracy, that you are for the Constitution. Show, instead of having pleinaries, instead of having parties, rather than spending our children's money, because it will have to be given back to our children, this borrowed money. Sanita Osipova, tonight's Panorama, you have to shout for such a budget. You must shout for the procedure of its adoption if you protect the Constitution. But you didn't touch, you're not the guardian of the Constitution, Sanita Osipova. The same insert. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U455	The debate is closed. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U456	In the Commission, 57 proposals were not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U457	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 57. - Member Alda Gobzema's proposal! Please vote mode! It's not about - 14, it's against - 52, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U458	58. - Member Gobzem's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U459	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U460	Yeah, this is... Bring it together right away.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U461	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U462	So this is about buying the media. There's those extra million for the media, Delphi, there's all these... Sprinkles and who else there, so the neighbor with it could his golden voice... Dear Sprick, for the media this is... you should shout with a full voice today, you should shout for what anti-democratic parliament has come into, but what are you doing? You call familiar people - it's actually a fact - to call and count how many pair of socks I have. Under today's circumstances. You don't find the way Karin sold the school street, less money, but you're the only threat is the opposition because you've bought power to the last seal. Up to the last underpants you've bought, media. You're paid, and you're just for power... Latvian Radio - the best example - 90 percent of the time, morning to evening, its brains are rubbed about how good Kariņš is or something else... Learn English. Wonder - An American-born person can speak English as if it were some huge achievement in life. The fact that we have the poorest Baltic country is not something you are talking about. The fact that we do not have democracy, as in the normal world, is not something you are talking about. You're not talking about stealing that brutal power at all. Whether or not to type it in a formal way... The government had its secret conversations, to take care of it, and it had already disappeared by the morning of the dozens. You had to talk about it for a week, knock until that government fell. Copy because you pay for it. The good news is that when the power changes, you will knock on the next, because they will pay you. Now Gobzem is your adversary, but when Gobzem pays you, he will be good, for if he does not pay, then there will be no bread. Are you such, and are you talking about media independence? What independence? Which one of you is independent? You're all bought there. Prices tell you how to get squares in the media, how to get squares in Delfos, or how to get some kind of transmission times on TV? Everyone knows how they do it. And here's an extra million at the expense of debts. It's not? That's it. I am speaking with complete justice. That's it. And I'm not afraid to speak the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U463	The debate is closed. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U464	This proposal was also not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U465	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 58. - Member Alda Gobzema's proposal! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported. Dear Members, Honourable Members! It's time for the next break. Only registration of the presence of Members. It's been a success. Adjournment at the sitting until 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U466	Dear colleagues, We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - draft law “On the state budget for 2022”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U467	59. - Member Gobzem's proposal. And this is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U468	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Mr Gobzem, you have applied in writing to speak in the debate... So, yeah. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U469	Yes, 59. - mine, the proposal is not to give so much money to the radio and television regulator, because there's no point in it. If it were a normal regulator, the regulator would understand that the Latvian Radio Channel 1 actually covers the entire transmission time with only one political opinion, not a public medium, which represents all of society, and in addition large parts of society, the opinion that is in opposition, and then the regulator would have intervened, but the regulator does nothing. The regulator actually depends on the power. What power... Now there is this power, then it works for this power, it will come - then it will work for the next power. The idea is also completely pointless. We do not see any fruits of work that this would improve the existence of objective, true information in Latvia, say, public, public... in the media space. Well, it's not... The media have been bought for us. So there's either some big rich people there, or some powers bought, but there's almost no independent media -- some, some, very, very few. And it's definitely not Inga Spriņģe. And it is definitely not the Latvian Radio Channel 1. And it's definitely not a "panorama". I think it is not necessary to spend public budgets, it is not necessary to borrow money to give the regulator extra money. That is my proposal. I explained this longer before I was able to speak for another five minutes, and I already explained the substance of this proposal when examining the previous draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U470	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U471	In the Commission, 59 proposals were not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U472	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 59. - Member Gobzem's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U473	60. - my colleague Gobzem's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U474	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U475	The nature of this proposal, dear people... The proposal will also be rejected immediately in the vote because we have a voting machine here that is not in the debate. Four million were allocated to the debtor, Imant Debtor, to deal with demographic issues. What are the demographic issues? Who will monitor? Where will they spend? The number of Latvians has decreased over the last 30 years, but will be for demographic Imants Debtor to have that position. That is the essence of the whole proposal. Just hit four million to support the Debtor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U476	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U477	In the Commission, the 60th proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U478	Please call me! We will vote for 60. - Member Gobzem's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U479	61. - the proposal of colleagues in Puce, Latkovska, Jušas and Indricksones. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U480	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U481	62. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U482	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U483	63. - a proposal from Members Dzintara, Pouce, Juša, Latkovska and Zakatistov. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U484	Members want a vote. Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 63. - the proposal from Members Dzintara, Pouce, Juša, Latkovska and Zakatistov! Please, let's vote! For - 52, for - no, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U485	64. - a proposal from Members Dzintara, Pouce, Juša, Latkovska and Zakatistov. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U486	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 64. - the proposal from Members Dzintara, Pouce, Juša, Latkovska and Zakatistov! Please, let's vote! No, 54, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U487	65. - The Cabinet's proposal. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U488	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U489	66. - the proposal by Members Jušas, Dzintara, Latkovska, Puces and Zakatistov. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U490	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 66. - the proposal by Members Jušas, Dzintara, Latkovska, Puces and Zakatistov! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U491	67. - the proposal of colleagues Juša, Dzintara, Latkovska, Puces and Zakatistov. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U492	Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U493	Hello, colleagues! I can assure you that I have not been able to apply for the previous proposal, but in principle I wanted to talk about both proposals 66, 67, 68 and 69, because these are all proposals relating to the promotion of an innovative economy. The only sad thing is that maybe they are created as member quotas, but I can confirm from my experience that this direction and these initiatives are both about TechChill, about TechHub and beyond the support of the Latvian Business Angels Association, all this is what largely creates the environment for an innovative economy in Latvia. And the fact that such things are also supported by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, that it is not left to proper foundations, is positive. It's just a little sad about it actually being allocated through quotas. I call for support to be given to this and also to the next two proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U494	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U495	In the Commission, proposal 67 was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U496	The vote is requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 67. - the proposal by Members Jušas, Dzintara, Latkovska, Puces and Zakatistov! Please, let's vote! No, 66, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U497	68. - the proposal of colleagues Dzintara, Latkovska, Juša, Puces and Zakatistov. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U498	Please call me! We will vote for 68. - the proposal by Members Jušas, Dzintara, Latkovska, Puces and Zakatistov! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 63, against - 1, refrains. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U499	69. - the proposal by Members Jušas, Dzintara, Latkovska, Puces and Zakatistov. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U500	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U501	70. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U502	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U503	71. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U504	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U505	72. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U506	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U507	73. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U508	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U509	74. - The proposal of MEPs Papule and Pucen. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U510	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U511	75. - The proposal of MEPs Papule and Pucen. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U512	Please call me! We will vote for 75. - The proposal of the MEPs Papule and Pucen! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U513	76. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U514	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U515	77. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U516	Members shall not ask for a vote. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U517	78. - The proposal of MEPs Papule and Pucen. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U518	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U519	79. - The proposal of MEPs Papule and Pucen. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U520	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 79. - The proposal of the MEPs Papule and Pucen! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U521	80. - The proposal of MEPs Papule and Pucen. This is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U522	Please call me! We'll vote for 80. - The proposal of the MEPs Papule and Pucen! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U523	81. - The proposal of MEPs Papule and Pucen. This is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U524	Members want a vote. Please call me! We will vote for 81. - The proposal of the MEPs Papule and Pucen! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 18, against - 50, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U525	82. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U526	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U527	83. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U528	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U529	84. - a proposal from Members Papules, Girgens, Pucens and Dombrovskis. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U530	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 84. - a proposal from Members Papule, Girgen, Pucen and Dombrovskis! Please, let's vote! It's not about 19, it's against 50, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U531	85. - The Greens/Farmers' Union proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U532	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 85. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U533	86. - The Greens/Farmers' Union proposal. This is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U534	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 86. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U535	87. - The Greens/Farmers' Union proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U536	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 87. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U537	88. - The Cabinet's proposal. And it is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U538	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U539	89. - a proposal from Members Ms Girgens, Mr Papules, Mr Pucens and Mr Dombrovskis. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U540	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U541	90. - the proposal of the Independent Group. This is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U542	Members want to vote. Please call me! We'll vote for 90. - the proposal of the independent group! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 20, it's 50, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U543	91. - Member Gobzem's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U544	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U545	The meaning of this proposal is as follows: So take 10 million from the defence budget, because Pabrik does nothing as much as a priority, and invest in education, that is to say, teachers' assistants. In the normal world, there are two adults in the class - a teacher and a teacher assistant. Those 10 million would be more valuable there, because it is a great miracle that we have the Ministry of Defence, which is one of the richest ministries, and Pabrik has nothing to do with. Old hlamies are bought, there is no limit, “Linezer” has been launched to the rock, although under the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence, to ask again for some help from the European Union and so on. Well, it's big enough that there's 500 or how many soldiers there. And that's it. Therefore, a much more valuable and much safer Latvian society will feel when we have an educated youth, not one that is raised by principle... That they were stupid like boots. It's happening in a modern world - a teacher and a teacher's assistant. These 10 million, as once in this position, are the most appropriate. So that I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U546	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U547	In the Commission, the 91st proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U548	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 91. - Member Gobzem's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U549	92. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U550	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U551	93. - a proposal from Members Dzintara, Pouce, Juša, Latkovska and Zakatistov. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U552	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U553	94. - the proposal by Members Zakatistova, Indricksones, Latkovska and Jušas. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U554	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U555	95. - a proposal from Members Dombrovskis, Girgen, Papule and Pucen. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U556	Please call me! Let's vote in 95. - Dombrovsky, Girgen, Papule and Pucen's proposal! Please, let's vote! It's not about 17, it's against 49, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U557	96. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. This is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U558	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 96. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! Please enable voting mode! It's not about 18, it's against 49, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U559	97. - a proposal from Members Girgen, Papule, Dombrovsky and Pucken. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U560	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U561	98. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. This is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U562	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 98. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U563	99. - a proposal from my colleagues, Ms Girgens, Mr Papules, Mr Dombrovskis and Mr Pucen. This is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U564	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U565	100. - The Greens/Farmers' Union proposal. This is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U566	Please call me! Let's vote for 100. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! 26, 50, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U567	101. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. This is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U568	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 101. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U569	102. - a proposal from Members Dombrovskis, Girgen, Papule and Pucen. This is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U570	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 102. - Dombrovsky, Girgen, Papule and Pucen's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U571	103. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U572	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let's vote in favour 103. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U573	104. - a proposal from Members Girgen, Papule, Dombrovsky and Pucken. And this is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U574	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 104. - That's what Mr. Girgen, Mr. Papule, Mr. Dombrovsky and Mr. Piceen's proposal! Please, let's vote! It's not about 19, it's against 50, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U575	105. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. This is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U576	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U577	106. - the proposal of the Independent Group. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U578	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U579	107. - a proposal from Members Dzintara, Pouce, Juša, Latkovska and Zakatistov. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U580	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 107. - the proposal from Members Dzintara, Pouce, Juša, Latkovska and Zakatistov! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 55, it's against - 5, it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U581	108. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U582	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 108. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! Not for - 23, not for - 50, refrain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U583	109. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. This is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U584	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 109. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U585	110. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. This is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U586	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 110. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U587	111. - The Cabinet's proposal. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U588	Please call me! We will vote for 111. - A proposal from the Cabinet! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 60, it's not 3, it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U589	112. - The Cabinet's proposal. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U590	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U591	113. - The Cabinet's proposal. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U592	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U593	114. - The Cabinet's proposal. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U594	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U595	115. - The Cabinet's proposal. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U596	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U597	116. - a proposal from Member Petravičs. This is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U598	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U599	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting. Dear colleagues, The proposal is intended to increase pay for workers in social care institutions. Indeed, the quality of life depends to a large extent on those who spend their lives in nursing homes. And the job is not easy. And the reward is very small. People with very severe diseases, in state social care centres - people with severe mental illness and disability - do not live in sparsely seniors. Staff remuneration was last raised in 2019. Let me repeat: it is now EUR 608 per paper (for carers with three years of service). Even if we manage to build new family-friendly homes for European funds, this will not significantly change the situation if we do not have a skilled, well-motivated workforce. In the public administration we need qualified employees, but why in social care centres that... work with people who maybe every day in their life depends on how much care they will receive, how much quality they will spend their leisure time - whether they will spend the whole day in bed, or if they will still be helped to walk, go out, read the book. And this requires resources to be able to attract motivated labour. With this vote, show your attitude towards seniors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U600	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U601	Proposal 116 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U602	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 116. - The proposal by Member Petravič! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U603	117. - the proposal of colleagues Juša, Dzintara, Latkovska, Puces and Zakatistov. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U604	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U605	118. - Mr. Clementyev's proposal. This is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U606	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 118. - Member Clementyev's proposal! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 23, against - 45, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U607	119. - the proposal by my colleague, Chakša, Latkovska, Puces, Judine and Asheraden. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U608	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U609	120. - a proposal from Members Latkovska, Puces, Dzintara, Jušas and Čakša. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U610	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U611	121. - a proposal from Members Dzintara, Pouce, Juša, Latkovska and Zakatistov. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U612	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U613	122. - a proposal from Members Dzintara, Pouce, Juša, Latkovska and Zakatistov. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U614	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U615	123. - a proposal from Members Dzintara, Pouce, Juša, Latkovska and Zakatistov. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U616	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U617	124. - my colleague Petravič's proposal. This is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U618	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U619	Colleagues! This proposal is intended to increase the contribution of 20 per cent to the pension insurance of a disabled child - EUR 313. They are now being carried out from the EUR 71, which was adopted in 2001, and in these 20 years absolutely nothing has changed. And that only means that these parents, who are forced to take care of their children with a severe disability for their life (and this is what happens) are subject to poverty at the age of retirement, because they have not even earned a minimum pension. And what the government has yet to do at the moment... Often mothers are also assistants to their very ill children, and if the mother is an assistant to her child and has not vaccinated, she does not receive remuneration for the services provided by the assistant, although, of course, she does so and they live in a single household, and this is absolutely nothing about combating the pandemic. It is more dangerous that an assistant who has been vaccinated comes there and comes into contact with such a dangerous unvaccinated person. That is how people, families, and children with severe disabilities are treated. It is not much for the budget, it is less than half a million, it is necessary, but it will certainly be appreciated by families who already face difficult challenges. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U620	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U621	In the Commission, the 124th proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U622	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 124. - The proposal by Member Petravič! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U623	125. - the proposal from Member Lochmele. This did not constitute aid within the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U624	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U625	Hello, colleagues! I would remind you that this proposal is in favour of correcting the injustices that have been committed. In spring of this year, every child of Latvia received 500 euros - a lump sum allowance, but due to the fact that the payment of this allowance was linked to the cost of the family allowance, the young people aged 18 to 20 who are studying at higher education institutions remained behind this compensation, so 1st year, 2nd year students. It is an injustice compared to those young people aged between 18 and 20 who study in techniques and vocational schools. Please support my proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U626	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U627	Proposal 125 was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U628	Please call me! We will vote for 125. - Member Lochmele's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 25, for - 47, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U629	126. - a proposal from Member Petravičs. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U630	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U631	Colleagues! This proposal provides for an increase in the indexation of pensions without differentiation after work. Given that today's bills for electricity, gas, heating and rising food prices are indeed very high, the government must come up with some solution to help these people, older people. And if pension indexation is not planned twice a year, as would be necessary and supported by the Latvian Pensioners Federation, then this could be a solution for at least some time by applying 100 per cent of the amount of insurance contribution salaries to the real rate of increase. The index, which was on 1 October, of course, does not cover the costs that seniors currently incur. Since there is no provision for any additional amount of the allowance or the costs that could cover the costs incurred (at least not for all seniors), please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U632	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U633	The Commission did not support the 126th proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U634	Please call me! We will vote for 126. - The proposal by Member Petravič! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U635	127. - The Cabinet's proposal. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U636	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U637	128. - a proposal from Member Petravičs. This is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U638	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U639	The aim of this proposal is to eliminate the injustices that have arisen as a result of pension allowances. In particular, seniors who retired until 2012 receive premiums for their work in Soviet times... the length of service obtained, while those who have retired later no longer receive such allowances. In the past, it was justified by the fact that the social budget is shrinking and there is insufficient resources, but at the moment we are seeing that the social budget is building up. And... This should definitely not be done at the expense of the seniors, by dividing the “right” and “bad” - after the year of birth and the day of retirement. Please avoid this injustice and grant pensions to all seniors who would be entitled to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U640	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U641	In the Commission, the 128th proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U642	Please call me! We will vote for 128. - The proposal by Member Petravič! Please, let's vote! - 22, against - 48, refrains - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U643	129. - my colleague Petravič's proposal. It wasn't supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U644	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U645	This budget does not address seniors, it does not deal with poverty reduction. This budget does not even mean helping those seniors who will have to choose to eat or pay bills. That is why this proposal has come about: to pay a lump sum of EUR 500 for seniors, survivors and persons with disabilities in order to compensate for the cost of living. Why exactly EUR 500? Assuming that the average cost could be around €40 per month, and given that such high inflation could persist until the autumn of next year... Therefore, the following offer is also made: If it does not support this offer (of course it will not be supported), however, the government will have to look for ways to support these people in some way, and it will not be enough with the 20 euro vaccinated seniors, because it is only doing so, as it divides society and sanido. I therefore ask for support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U646	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U647	129 The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U648	Please call me! We will vote for 129. - The proposal by Member Petravič! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U649	130. - a proposal from Member Petravičs. This is also not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U650	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U651	This proposal provides for financial means to enable local authorities to continue their family assistant service. Indeed, this service is very necessary if we want to work in a preventive manner, not just to combat the consequences. And sometimes it's very useful for families if there's someone next to us who helps, trains, even learns the first skills needed to deal with a child. Or if there are alcohol problems in the family or otherwise, there is an assistant next to it; then it doesn't happen that the child is taken out of the family right away, given back to the orphanage and then to the foster family. It is important for a child to grow up with his parents, and in many cases it is possible if there is a helping hand, a person who gives advice and helps. The Ministry of Welfare has already started such a project, but, of course, the project will end, and if the municipalities are not helped, a large part may also refuse to continue this service, but it really is very important that it continues. That is why I ask for support for this proposal so that we avoid having to take children out of the family.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U652	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U653	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U654	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 130. - The proposal by Member Petravič! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U655	131. - the proposal from Member Lochmele. This is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U656	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 131. - Member Lochmele's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U657	132. - the proposal of colleagues Dzintara, Puces, Juša, Latkovska and Zakatistov. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U658	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U659	133. - a proposal from Members Juszs and Zakatistov. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U660	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U661	134. - the proposal by Members Jušas, Dzintara, Latkovska, Puces and Zakatistov. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U662	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U663	135. - the proposal by Members Jušas, Dzintara, Latkovska, Puces and Zakatistov. This is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U664	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U665	136 - a proposal from Members Dzintara, Pouce, Juša, Latkovska and Zakatistov. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U666	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U667	137. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U668	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U669	138. - the proposal by Members Zakatistova, Latkovska, Jušas and Dzintara. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U670	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U671	139. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U672	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U673	140. - a proposal from Members Latkovska, Puces, Dzintara, Jušas and Čakša. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U674	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U675	141. - a proposal from Members Dzintara, Pouce, Juša, Latkovska and Zakatistov. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U676	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U677	142. - a proposal from Members Papules, Girgens, Pucens and Dombrovskis. This is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U678	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U679	143. - a proposal from Members Dzintara, Pouce, Juša, Latkovska and Zakatistov. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U680	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U681	144. - a proposal from Members Papules, Girgens, Pucens and Dombrovskis. This is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U682	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U683	145. - a proposal from Members Dzintara, Pouce, Juša, Latkovska and Zakatistov. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U684	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U685	146. - a proposal from Members Dzintara, Pouce, Juša, Latkovska and Zakatistov. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U686	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U687	147. - a proposal from Members Dzintara, Pouce, Juša, Latkovska and Zakatistov. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U688	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U689	148. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal of the Group on Homeland and Freedom/LNNK. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U690	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U691	149. - a proposal from Members Papules, Girgens, Pucens and Dombrovskis. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U692	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U693	150. - a proposal from Members Papules, Girgens, Pucens and Dombrovskis. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U694	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U695	151. - a proposal from Members Papules, Girgens, Pucens and Dombrovskis. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U696	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U697	152. - a proposal from Members Dombrovskis, Papules, Girgen and Pucken. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U698	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U699	153. - a proposal from Member Petravičs. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U700	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U701	Colleagues! The proposal provides for the final fulfilment of their obligations towards medical practitioners. Now it looks like it will be left to the next Saeima. Of course, the doctors will come... and wait until their promises are finally fulfilled. What can we expect from healthcare if we miss so many nurses! Do you really think that someone will choose to work as a nurse if you can work in public administration, where pay is rich? What health care will people receive if they have to wait for six months in the queue so that they can go to the service at all... if our young doctors choose to leave the country! And in fact, it's right. It is also understandable why parliamentary quotas provide funds for parking near churches and cemeteries. Logical action, however, is because medicine already has no funds. Not only for equipment, repair of equipment, but also for remuneration. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U702	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U703	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U704	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 153. - The proposal by Member Petravič! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U705	154. - My colleague Orlov's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U706	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 154. - Member Orlov's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U707	155. - Member Zarin's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U708	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 155. - Member Zarin's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U709	156. - the proposal by Members Svekova and Stepanenko. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U710	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U711	157. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U712	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U713	158. - Member Zarin's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U714	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U715	159. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U716	Members want a vote. Please call me! We will vote for 159. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U717	160. - Member Zarin's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U718	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U719	161. - Member Zarin's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U720	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U721	162. - Member Zarin's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U722	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U723	163. - a proposal from Members Ms Girgens, Mr Papules, Mr Pucens and Mr Dombrovskis. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U724	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 163. - a proposal from Members Gürgen, Papule, Pucen and Dombrovskis! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U725	164. - the proposal of the Independent Group. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U726	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U727	165. - the proposal from Member Lochmele. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U728	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 165. - Member Lochmele's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U729	166. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U730	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U731	167. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U732	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U733	168. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U734	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 168. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U735	169. - a proposal from Members Dombrovskis, Girgen, Papule and Pucen. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U736	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U737	170. - a proposal from Members Dombrovskis, Girgen, Papule and Pucen. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U738	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U739	171. - a proposal from Members Dombrovskis, Girgen, Papule and Pucen. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U740	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U741	172. - a proposal from Members Dombrovskis, Girgen, Papule and Pucen. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U742	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 172. - Dombrovsky, Girgen, Papule and Pucen's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U743	173. - a proposal from colleagues Dombrovskis, Girgen, Papule and Pucen. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U744	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U745	174. - a proposal from Members Dombrovskis, Girgen, Papule and Pucen. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U746	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U747	175. - a proposal from Members Dombrovskis, Girgen, Papule and Pucen. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U748	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U749	176. - a proposal from Members Dombrovskis, Girgen, Papule and Pucen. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U750	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U751	177. - a proposal from Members Dombrovskis, Girgen, Papule and Pucen. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U752	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U753	178. - My colleague Orlov's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U754	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 178. - Member Orlov's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U755	179. - a proposal from Members Dombrovskis, Girgen, Papule and Pucen. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U756	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U757	180. - a proposal from Members Pucena, Girgen, Papule and Dombrovskis. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U758	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U759	181. - a proposal from Members Pucena, Girgen, Papule and Dombrovskis. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U760	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U761	182. - a proposal from Members Pucena, Girgen, Papule and Dombrovskis. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U762	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 182. - A proposal from Members Pucena, Girgen, Papule and Dombrovskis! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U763	183. - a proposal from Members Pucena, Girgen, Papule and Dombrovskis. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U764	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U765	184. - a proposal from Members Pucena, Girgen, Papule and Dombrovskis. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U766	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U767	185. - a proposal from Members Pucena, Girgen, Papule and Dombrovskis. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U768	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U769	186. - a proposal from Members Pucena, Girgen, Papule and Dombrovskis. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U770	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U771	187. - a proposal from Members Pucena, Girgen, Papule and Dombrovskis. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U772	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U773	188. - a proposal from Members Pucena, Girgen, Papule and Dombrovskis. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U774	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U775	190. - a proposal from Members Pucena, Girgen, Papule and Dombrovskis. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U776	Okay. 189, huh?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U777	189. ... Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U778	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U779	190. - a proposal from Members Pucena, Girgen, Papule and Dombrovskis. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U780	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U781	191. - the proposal from colleagues Pucena, Girgena, Papules and Dombrovskis. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U782	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U783	192. - a proposal from Members Papules, Girgens, Pucens and Dombrovskis. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U784	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U785	192.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U786	Third.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U787	193. - a proposal from Members Latkovska, Puces, Dzintara, Jušas and Čakša. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U788	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U789	194. - the proposal of the Members of the Council of the European Union, Mr Čakša, Mr Latkovska, Mr Pouces, Mr Judine and Mr Asheraden. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U790	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U791	195. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U792	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U793	196. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U794	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U795	197. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U796	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U797	198. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U798	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U799	199. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U800	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U801	200. - Member Mozhville's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U802	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U803	201 - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U804	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U805	202. - Member Mozhville's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U806	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U807	203. - Mrs Goldberg's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U808	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U809	204. - Mrs Goldberg's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U810	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U811	205. - Member Kucin's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U812	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U813	206. - Member Kucin's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U814	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 206. - Member Cucin's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U815	207. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U816	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U817	208. - Member Kucin's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U818	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 208. - Member Cucin's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U819	209. - Member Kucin's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U820	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 209. - Member Cucin's proposal! Please, let's vote! 26, 50, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U821	210. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U822	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U823	211. - the proposal by Members Svekova and Stepanenko. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U824	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U825	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I applied for this proposal... I think this is significant, and I call on every Member of the Saeima to think a little bit at the moment and to see who the tablers of this proposal are. The applicants are members of Lubova Švecova and Jūlija Stepanenko. Mrs Stepanenko could not today... Also in these five days... Due to the decision of the Saeima, it was not possible to take part in this debate. And here I have a question for you, colleagues. She is one of the most active speakers in the Saeima, one of the most active representatives of the opposition. It really seems strange to me why, in this remote mode, she cannot take part in these sittings, why we took such a step and, above all, what we got from it at the end of the day. Did we strengthen ourselves by not hearing one of our colleagues who had tabled a series of proposals in this law during the process of drafting the most important document of the country, and her opinion remained unheard? Who benefited from it? Has Mrs Stepanenko now left and obtained this vaccination certificate? Doubt. I think she is definitely preparing for legal proceedings before the Constitutional Court. Another trial: is that what we needed at the moment? Why such a decision was made, I do not know, but this is a very symbolic proposal, which, in a way, also shows their apprehension. We have currently excluded one of our most active colleagues from remote mode for five days. You might like or dislike her opinion, you might like or dislike the 211st proposal, but, my colleagues, that is the fact, and I think it's right for all... I understand the sittings here, but now it's a long way away... Late luck in the Constitutional Court! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U826	Thank you, thank you. However, I would call for this proposal to talk about the substance of the proposal and not to deviate so much from the subject. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U827	Thank you. Please combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U828	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U829	Thank you. I thank my colleague from the opposition, Mr Valaiņa, for his moral support and I would like to say that this proposal is linked to what has already been adopted... the draft law proposal, which was not supported and which provided for a corresponding transfer of 34 million money for the reconstruction of the Saeima building to the remuneration of teachers - the remuneration of pre-school educators. I believe that this is an important measure that needs to be ensured, and accordingly, together with my colleague Julia Stepanenko, we presented this proposal in the budget package. Yes, I am also very sorry that the proposals we made and prepared together with Mrs Stepanenko, I represent and defend myself. I do not think that this is democracy and that is the price of democracy or of democracy nihilism, which is unfortunately happening at the moment. I ask my colleagues to support this proposal - from the point of view that it is a good proposal. It simply sets out and tells us what the priorities are or what should be the priorities in the country when deciding on the reallocation of budgetary tax money. School, educators and children - this is primary to ensure the repair of other entertainments, such as the Saeima building, as an extra in terms of working conditions, these are secondary and subordinate issues and only on condition that the Saeima Members are able to ensure that people have a decent salary and a decent quality of life. Unfortunately, our Saeima is not able to provide the people with the quality of life they deserve, but rather wants to provide excellent working conditions and extras with regard to space equipment. Therefore, I believe that 34 million would be worth focusing on the quality of education and on the salaries of educators rather than on the renovation of the Saeima building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U830	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U831	In the Commission, proposal 211 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U832	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 211. - the proposal put forward by Members Svekova and Stepanenko! Please, let's vote! 25, 50, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U833	212. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U834	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U835	213. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U836	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 213. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U837	214. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U838	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U839	215. - a proposal from Members Puce, Latkovska, Jušas and Indricksons. This was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U840	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U841	216. - a proposal from Members Latkovska, Puces, Dzintara, Jušas and Čakša. This was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U842	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U843	217. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. This was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U844	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U845	218. - a proposal from Members Puce, Latkovska, Jušas and Indricksons. This was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U846	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U847	219. - Mrs Goldberg's proposal. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U848	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 219. - Member Goldberg's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 29, for - 48, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U849	220. - Mrs Goldberg's proposal. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U850	Please call me! Let's vote for 220. - Mrs Goldberg's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 30, for - 48, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U851	221. - the proposal from our colleagues Pouce, Latkovska, Jušas and Indricksons. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U852	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U853	222. - the proposal by our colleagues Dzintara, Puces, Juša, Latkovska and Zakaistov. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U854	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U855	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues and colleagues! I wanted to speak on this proposal for a number of reasons. The first of these is the content itself. Andrey Pumpur. I know of one of the Members of the Saeima who has long taken care that there is also a strong commemoration mark here. The national association, all due respect, but since 1991 there has really been no sign ever since. And in 2021, Andrejs Pumpurs (which seems to be known by every Latvian citizen, I am not talking about schoolchildren at all) has finally decided to give... The Ogres municipality has the right to install a memorial sign. Very good. With Members' quotas, like several other commemorative signs with Members' quotas, places that are important for Latvian culture. I think that this solution expresses everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U856	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U857	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that the 222nd proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U858	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 222. - the proposal from Members Dzintara, Pouce, Juša, Latkovska and Zakatistov! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U859	223. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U860	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U861	224. - a proposal from Members Puce, Latkovska, Jušas and Indricksons. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U862	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U863	225. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U864	Members don't mind... Members wanted to vote. Please call me! We will vote for 225. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U865	226. - a proposal from Members Dzintara, Pouce, Juša, Latkovska and Zakatistov. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U866	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U867	227. - a proposal from Members Dzintara, Pouce, Juša, Latkovska and Zakatistov. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U868	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U869	228. - a proposal from Members Puce, Latkovska, Jušas and Indricksons. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U870	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U871	229. - a proposal from Members Puce, Latkovska, Jušas and Indricksons. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U872	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U873	230. - the proposal from Member Lochmele. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U874	Members don't mind... I am sorry, Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote for 230. - Mrs Ločmele's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U875	231. - The Greens/Farmers' Union proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U876	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U877	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, This proposal shows the progress of the adoption of this budget, the priorities of this budget, when we have talked about health care many times, as well as we have talked and argued many times why we have to support pre-education teachers, why we need to support the education system as a whole, especially at this time with targeted grants to Latvian municipalities, which have been particularly disadvantaged in this budget, namely, their funding has been reduced, forgetting that in Latvia municipalities are the main providers of services in the country. But again. Like the medium-term budget, as well as the general public budget for 2022, I cannot support this, because, as I said earlier, first of all, it is an inappropriately fast increase - a weakly fast increase! - the external debt of the State. Secondly, it is the sharp increase in salaries of our President of Latvia, Levit, ministers and members of the Saeima, which is completely in contrast with the third promise, namely, there has been no reward for the medical, police and other officials who had previously been promised. Fourthly, the crisis sectors currently affected, the energy sectors and households are not supported. And fifthly, which I believe is the worst - the public promises made by all politicians in advance and the commitment not to continue Members' quotas in terms of the budget. These quotas have returned and that is not good, it is not fair. Finally... Finally. Colleagues, this budget is not a development budget; this budget may turn out to be one large millstone in the long term for our society. Therefore, colleagues, I will certainly vote against this budget as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U878	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U879	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I see the ministers, too, are... Mr Prime Minister has already followed this sitting. I come to this proposal, which is the final part of this budget from the Union of Greens/farmers... during the examination, I would like to say that we tried, we really tried to create a priority in this budget, because, as we said, when we received this budget, in our view this budget lacked priorities. Despite the fact that most money was allocated to the health sector as the top priority, overall it was not identified as a priority, because even the promises made to doctors... With all this money, we could not do it. Thus, we offered both resources and the Saeima to fulfil their unanimous promises in the field of medicine. Nor does this budget respect in any way... Regardless of how we try to provide additional funding to reduce the burden in some way due to the rise in energy prices, both for the population and, in particular, for the health sector, we have been unheard of here too. And they are, in my opinion, one of the greatest minuses of this budget. Similarly, the inequalities concerning the salaries of educators between pre-school and general... pedagogues. These are the things that I think had to solve for the Saeima, and I think the Saeima had to solve also... in the case of seniors, despite the fact that there is no undue increase in the minimum. These are hundreds, thousands of seniors, who will not feel this increase in this budget, and four percent inflation will cost them more than income in this budget. Colleagues, I think this budget could have been a health and growth budget. We should have focused more on health and still help local authorities... not by removing money from them, but also by providing for some kind of money for growth. I call for the time of the debate to be brought together.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U880	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U881	Yeah, thank you. In this section of growth, it is municipalities... Despite the fact that the next proposal is also about ensuring three percent... We remember this four-percent inflation and this disproportionate increase in costs for municipalities in recent years... minus 300 million for municipalities... Colleagues, this is a fact, and in the years to come, this proportion will decrease more and more. Local governments now (regardless of coalitions, opposition)... We ask who we want... municipalities... Nobody can say that it will be a year of development - next. I don't know any municipality that could safely... It will be a year of challenges. It is precisely the social tensions that will arise and this disregard, which was from the government and coalition in this budgetary process, that is one of the main reasons why I will not be able to support this budget... and, of course, aligning 4.4 percent to medical practitioners with 42 percent to the Prime Minister is not really right, nor is it ethical in these circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U882	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U883	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I also ask for the time of the debate to be combined.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U884	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U885	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think it is not worth talking about why I will not support this budget. I think that anyone who has followed the debate at both first reading and second reading should have a clear picture of why. What I would like to highlight as the next year's budget, my fellow Members, is what it really stands out even - even! - to this 13th year. Against the background of the Saeima, it is that during this five-day period, only members of the opposition debated this budget for 99 per cent. We have not seen or heard here large (with very rare exceptions) Members of the coalition... With very rare exceptions, we have not heard or seen even the parliamentary secretaries of ministries whose direct job it is to explain the position of their ministry. Indeed, the only exception is the parliamentary secretary of the Ministry of Culture, for whom he has the full respect, who has spoken in fact on every issue that concerns the Ministry of Culture. The others... Sometimes the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare, Evita Zālīte-Grosa, gave a speech, and once I think Mr Dūritis, the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Health... Mr Butane, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, also spoke a few times. That is absolutely everything, too. So, honourable coalition colleagues, we have seen that you have only debated the quotas of your Members. It was obvious to everyone that these were the only proposals with which you feel some kind of emotional connection. This government could not work for all these three years without close ties with the Saeima, because any great step for the government - to amend the laws - must be reconciled with the Saeima. You, dear coalition colleagues, should have had - if you worked for all these three years - a very good understanding of what is in this budget and why. You should have been able to defend your government's position - this draft budget. You have chosen not to do this, giving the impression that this budget has fallen from Mars, as if it is a budget of some occupation power that you are not prepared to talk about. Because you are ashamed of it! That's exactly the picture you're showing over these five days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U886	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U887	President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, It is very important that I am speaking directly on the proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union, because they too will be grateful. But at the beginning I wanted to thank Krišjānis Kariņš, Janis Reiers, the whole Cabinet of Ministers for being able to present your vision of 2022 and not to say to each other at this difficult and rarely difficult time... but a single presentation of it to the Saeima. Thank you for that. Secondly, I would like to thank my colleagues in the Saeima - my colleagues in the Saeima for their endurance - for this has been an inequitable time and we have gone through a rather serious process. I thank the opposition very much for the debate, and to some extent it gave us an insight into who you are, because we had the opportunity not only to listen to and look at concrete proposals, but also about how you see Latvia in the future and who you are as cooperation partners... for us in the future. This is important. Thank you also very much to the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Baiba Bāne and Jolanta Plūme, who, with their teams, actually carried out their daily weight in the preparation of this budget and in the creation of this budget. Thank you. Thank you also to the people of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) who are at the forefront of Gita Strautiņa and who have done everything they need to do without purging and purging at this time, too. Thank you. And finally. I do not know, perhaps we should, however, stick to the negotiations on how the budgetary process should take place in the Saeima, and then perhaps there would be a more complete process for society as a whole. Thank you, and all that best!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U888	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U889	Thank you. I agree with Mr Bondara. It is really very important to ensure real cooperation between all the Members, between the political groups, whether it is an opposition or a position, because it is a vision for the future and a chance for the future. This is extremely important. The other thing. I also agree with the need to review the budgetary procedure that Martins mentioned, I believe that this is really important, especially for the next Saeima. When it comes to the draft budget itself, however, it does not, unfortunately, meet the requirements - the requirements of the emergency - which the whole world is experiencing, not just Latvia. Consequently, its priorities and wasteful expenditure in a number of cases for which there is no specific justification cannot make this budget "digestible" and acceptable to all. Personally, I will vote against this budget because it does not solve... and do not answer the main questions - how we will deal with the pandemic and how we will deal with unthinking and unnecessary spending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U890	The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U891	This budget will enter history as a "fly" budget. It will enter history as a budget, where salaries are raised to the senior state officials, including the President of Latvia. There is no thought of social support for people. For ordinary people. The proposals to support families with severe disabilities are rejected. The proposals to support seniors are rejected and the promises to health workers are not being honoured. This was the last chance to fulfill this promise you ever made. In medicine, however, we invite volunteers and pensioners to apply for work in the hope that they will pull out the stressful health care system. Instead, the road to the cemetery is paved with parliamentary quotas. This budget is also the way to the cemetery. That is why I will not be able to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U892	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U893	Dear President of the Saeima and also the honourable Chairman of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) Martin Bondar! Thank you for your good words to the opposition. Your assessment is probably important. The question is whether from the rating... there will also be follow-up actions. This is the 13th time. The family doesn't finish its job. We still have almost a year to work together. And then it's a question: will your assessment and your willingness to cooperate with the opposition in a different way? not only in words, as always, but also in works? But in general, I would like to say thank you for having noticed, although only as third, but still you have noticed. Officials are also worth noting, even though it is their direct job, and our discussions and discussions on the budget would be much more beneficial if they were to take place in a commission with professionals, with officials and with those who really understand what the budget is put in. But at the same time, at the end of this debate, although it is quite not the 231st proposal, I will keep my question about the symbol that we have with the President of Latvia, at least I think. And this question will be as follows: Will the President of Latvia, when approving and announcing this law as a law, refuse additional funding in favour of the health sector even or, for example, in favour of compensation for rare diseases and oncology medicines? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U894	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U895	Colleagues! This budget will also enter... with such a phenomenon that another Member - Jūlija Stepanenko - was suspended by a majority of Members... with the Member who was prevented from taking part in the discussions, refused to defend the proposals, refused to make an assessment of the budgetary process... and the mandate given to him by the voters and the majority of the parliament - the Members of the position - decided to limit it. This budget will remain the same - like a budget for corrupt quotas, a budget for unfair, opaque re-allocation of the budget, and also a budget limiting human rights, which violates, in my view, the fundamental principle of democracy. I will not support this budget either, but I will support this proposal from the green farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U896	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U897	Finita la commedia. That is exactly what Martin Bondara, Head of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, said by chance, before one of the breaks, when looking at the three-year budgetary framework. He did not want it to be made public; it sounded from his mouth by chance, but very organic. Because everything that happened these days, when the debate on the state budget took place, that is exactly what the coalition is - comedy. A comedy in which the opposition is given a foolish role and, together with the opposition, also the people who support the opposition. Unfortunately, the coalition itself is not aware of the consequences of this division of roles. But in the end, the moment will come when the people will point out their place for each of the players and directors of this comedy, because, of course, each of the points in this budget will be judged - both the grande and the raised salaries for the president, the Prime Minister, the Ministers and the others, and the fact that no promises are being fulfilled, but money is being given to their own through cynical quotas, with the hope that after a year you will be supported in the parliamentary elections. So I can say that this budget will be the last one not only for this term, but perhaps also for several of you, coalition colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U898	I closed the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this proposal, tabled by the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union, has been very broad... and in fact not on this proposal. However, Members have asked for a vote on this proposal in particular. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U899	The Commission did not support proposal 231.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U900	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 231. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! - 30, 51, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U901	232. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U902	Dear colleagues, In the debate, Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš has applied in writing, and those who have applied in writing are given priority. Name to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U903	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear Members, Honourable Members! Ministers! Colleagues! It is clear from this debate that we are different. We have different beliefs on our own. Also as politicians we represent different groups of our society, but I am sure together... we are all very zealous patriots of our country. Sometimes we argue about small things, but usually with big things in the country, we are able to unite ourselves and finally remember what is important, which is, of course, our freedom, democracy and the ability and right to determine our own destiny and to decide our own laws. In the country, I think we all have the goal of improving the well-being of our citizens. I think it's for any politician. And that's no less for me, our government and the government coalition. We see this through an ever faster increase in exports, which is also happening, and through increasing and multiple investments in our economy, which is also happening. In that sense, very positive. I am very aware that the growth seen in part of the economy is not even in all sectors of the economy, nor in the whole territory of the country, this development is quite uniform. This is a challenge for all of us - to work to ensure that the prosperity we pursue is not limited to just a few people, but that it is widespread in society as a whole. This budget, for which you have been debating, as colleagues, for a whole week (and indeed thank you for the debate and the very many opinions that have been expressed!) , is specifically aimed at improving the overall prosperity. I will remind you: it is built on three major pillars: increasing the competitiveness of the country, improving the availability and quality of public services, and strengthening our national identity. Increasing the competitiveness of the country. On the part of the government, we promised that, at this stage, at the Saeima's four-year period, we will not raise taxes, and we have kept to that. So in next year's draft budget, we not only do not raise taxes, but we intend to continue reducing the tax burden on workers. I would like to remind you that this is intended to increase the unlimited minimum to 350 euros from 1 January and 500 euros from the middle of the summer. It will be in favour of those people who have lower wages. For science, this budget offers a very significant increase in basic funding - 32 percent. That's, if I'm not mistaken, the biggest one year... an annex that has been possible since we regained our independence. Regional development is expected to invest 100 million directly to our municipalities. Access and strengthening of public services. This is also a very important pillar. The lion’s court is dedicated to this by its means. Thus, out of some 300 million, which is an increase in basic funding, more than one third goes directly to healthcare. Of course, there is money for education. Pedagogic wage increases in full compliance with all timetables and promises. And, of course, this time important funds have been devoted specifically to strengthening the home affairs system. We see the very important role of the home system in terms of the stability and development of our country. And finally, strengthening national identity. Which country will strengthen our identity, if not ourselves? No one else. This year, a whole series of events - VAT for media... and books - reduction of VAT to 5 percent, funding the Media Support Fund... And important money is also available to strengthen the tradition of Song Festivals. I would like to say my sincere thanks to all Members - both to the positions and, in particular, to the opposition Members - for the debate. You, members of the opposition, may feel that no one wants to hear your arguments, but they are heard, and of course we are looking at how to address the challenges that you highlight. It is, of course, up to you to assess how this works or does not work. We may have different views, but it is the beauty of democracy that we can talk to each other and try to convince each other. Of course, I also have to express my enormous thanks to our coalition Members for the huge work they have done. Thank you all. I thank Mr Bondara for his very strong endurance, leading not only the Saeima's Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, but also the whole process. So all the respect! Thank you, Martyn, for that! And, of course, thank you to the Minister for Finance, Janis Reirs, and the whole Ministry for Finance for preparing the budget. Of course, thank you also to all my fellow ministers and their ministries for the huge work they have done so that we can draw the whole budget's offer together. I... So about this particular proposal coming from the Cabinet of Ministers... I call on all of you to support this. And, of course, I call for support then for this draft budget as a whole. Let all of us succeed! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U904	Thank you to the Prime Minister. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U905	Sir, I'll let you disagree with taxes. You know very well, however, that it is during this government that the tax burden of 270 thousand Latvian taxpayers is increasing significantly, because in principle we are refusing all special tax regimes. And I think that wasn't the right thing. Also... Well, there's that essential thing... It's hard not to pay attention to them... more and more... This promise to medical staff by 4.4 percent raise salaries in this budget... That should have been 10 percent. And that was the government that agreed to raise these taxes by 10 percent... And you mentioned the salaries of the educator, but... Well, we have debated this very much in the course of this budget review, in these five days. And for my part, I would like to thank all my opposition colleagues very much for a really very consistent and really very high-quality debate. This is already the next year when, in my view, the opposition has shown and kept the high level that the opposition itself had also put into the budget debate. In the budget debate, as last year, as in this year, unfortunately the coalition Members... with very few exceptions... not on its own... Both Mr Feldman, who still took part in the debate at the beginning of the debate and Mr Janson... I thank all those who have defended the priorities of their industry throughout the whole of this debate. And everyone, including members of the coalition, who took part in this process. In my opinion, it is precisely the budget debate that every member of society can gain clarity about what is in this budget and why one or the other priority is being or is not being supported. The opposition did its job in honor - full respect! The exclamation of every Member of the opposition, who was actively preparing for this debate and, above all, took part in it in a high-quality way! Thank you all!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U906	We will have to vote yet. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U907	Good evening, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Good evening, honourable colleagues and respected colleagues! Yes, it can be said that this has been an interesting budget marathon - five days (in the middle, there was also a national holiday that slightly stopped this marathon). But it's good that, although it's only Tuesday, we've already reached the finish line. Although this budget, like all the budgets, also has weaknesses, I think in general... I will also speak on behalf of the young Conservatives, saying that, overall, this budget is very positive - with such a big plus sign. And, of course, it is a special pleasure to say thank you to the coalition colleagues who agreed in this budget to fulfil our most famous pre-election promise - the 3 × 500 plan. To be honest, I thought it would not happen, but this time it happened. I must therefore say thank you, of course, to the other parties. The coalition parties have had high demands in this budget... in the process, and I hope that the budget as a whole - as it has succeeded - also satisfies all political forces in such or other political light. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you also to those who appreciate taking part in the debate, such as Viktor Valainim. And then we all vote together on the budget... then, in the next vote! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U908	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U909	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! High Prime Minister! Dear colleagues, First of all, I would like to thank Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš for his concluding words. Both I and, I think, all the other Members - both the opposition and the position - appreciated this very much. However, Mr Prime Minister, I would also like to express my regret, second time, that you are, in fact, the only one who, at this, second time, defends and praises this government budget; that you are lonely in defending this budget and that neither 56 or so positions, nor 13 parliamentary secretaries have considered it necessary to defend this budget, either today or in all these five days, to defend this budget position against opposition proposals. I think that no Prime Minister deserves something like that - to stand alone in this way, and you certainly do not deserve it. I am very sorry about that in human terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U910	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U911	Thank you. You can agree with the honourable Prime Minister that it is really very important to listen to the opposition too. On this hearing, on cooperation, on trying to optimise all budgetary matters, two things have to be said. The first thing is that no country in the world has at any time been in such a situation that the budget, the public budget, would be dear and acceptable to everyone. That's not how it works, it's never happening. In this case, the draft budget contains a great many internal contradictions to which today and yesterday have been referred by the opposition all these days. And the other thing. The opposition pointed out a number of problems and called for cooperation, but cooperation always involves dialogue. Dialogue is not two monologue. Dialogue is a conversation. And in this case, the biggest weakness in our budgetary consultation process is the lack of dialogue. You have started this for the first time today, Mr Prime Minister, but only at the very end of the process. Consequently, it is quite difficult today to be members of the opposition, to agree that this is the beginning of the future and that it will continue in this way and in this spirit, too. And therefore, hardly any of the opposition Members will support this draft budget, which does indeed incorporate a number of problems and puts a number of stumbling stones in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U912	The name is the Minister of Finance Janis Reirs.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U913	Thank you. Highly honored Chairman of the Saeima. Dear Members, Honourable colleagues ministers and parliamentary secretaries! I would like to thank you very much for the progress of this draft budget, for the discussions - thank you both to the representatives of the position that prepared the draft budget for the second reading in the Saeima and to the opposition - for the proposals made, sometimes also to the criticisms. I would also like to thank the Ministers and the Ministerial Teams, the Budget Teams, who helped shape this budget. Indeed, this process has been rather time-delayed since August, because sometimes it had to be dealt with in various ways. I would also like to thank the social partners who participated in each of the budgetary processes. Of course, representatives of the non-governmental sector as well, many of the various non-governmental actors - whether they are sports, social support, or, let us say, politics or public life - who provided support from the non-governmental sector. I would like to say a special thank you to the Latvian Municipal Union. This discussion... This is the sixth budget in my career, and this discussion with the Latvian Municipal Union was one of the most productive and professional. This shows that the reform of local governments has really been crowned with good success and nice... on the future, further cooperation between municipalities and the state. I see it very well. We had a disagreement on six issues. There have been years when there have been twenty- thirty questions... In this case, these discussions were not easy on the part of the country. However, on the part of the municipalities, they were really reasonable and indeed very well prepared. So thank you also for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U914	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U915	Hello, Minister Jani Reir! Hello, premiere! We're here five days, if fair, really from morning to night... We have examined more than 450 proposals in total... We have now reached the very last proposal - 232. - which is in the draft law on the state budget for 2022, and now ministers are starting to come and speak. I thank you, Mr Reira, for finding time and coming and explaining, at least thank you. But let me be honest that, in my opinion, this has not yet been the case - that ministers are not present at the examination of the budget. Okay, we're in remote mode, that's clear. But when there is a remote mode, then any minister can join. No Minister has spoken! There have been so many questions here that... I haven't had... You didn't even have one to ask! Mr. Reira, guess how many times did the parliamentary secretary of your Ministry climbe up in five days? That's right, nobody! And these issues are the main document of the country - the main one throughout the year. But don't come up in the troop of ministers, don't defend... Usually we are already present at the budget discussion, then ministers are coming up in the troupe, telling... The opposition indicates errors... These specified errors... and I can't understand if it's an error or it's not an error, lies that Member or doesn't lie. I can't understand. There is therefore a debate. And in this case, this debate... I also missed myself very much. I also say this openly, especially as regards the involvement of ministers at the time of the adoption of this budget. Five days! Thank God we didn't do it overnight. Really. And we can also watch for two weeks if necessary, but then have a dialogue! Now we've finished it all, and I hope that understanding is also here... heard. Mr. Prime Minister... Excuse me, Mrs. Murniece, I'd like to give myself a minute more... last this year...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U916	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U917	Thank you. Dialogue is needed. I also felt like a bulldozer (in this case, in a bad sense) - that you can't understand... Supporting the budget, supporting the proposals, has not been... Well, there's no one to ask, because we're already sitting here at our computer... Yes, in principle, I am reprimanding ministers who did not come and defend their industries throughout the five days... All these things... all these human-related questions, health-related... So... so...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U918	Thank you, thank you. The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U919	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Sir, Colleagues! First of all, about the process itself... Please bring me together the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U920	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U921	Thank you. Firstly, on the process itself, it has been very compact, and at times Members who have debated the proposals in defence have not been able to do so because of lack of time. That's one thing. The other thing. When it comes to this budget, of course, it is a borrowing budget, and proud of borrowing, I think it shouldn't be. Anyone knows how to borrow. Not everyone can earn. So... That is in the context of growth and so on. As far as direct job duties are concerned, the parliamentary secretary provides, by nature, a link between the Saeima and the ministry in which he is the parliamentary secretary. Only a few of the parliamentary secretaries came here and spoke, but it is for them that this budget provides for very rapid wage increases. Very many Members have said that this attitude is unequal, especially at the time of the Covid-19 pandemic, when we are pushing out the first lines of doctors, teachers and others who would have to pay the extra money at the moment. But no! Four percent for doctors - four percent! Parliamentary Secretaries - the percentage rise in huge salaries, the rise in representation expenses for ministers, the Prime Minister! These are the symbols that we are talking about. Is that fair? I will by no means support this budget precisely because of this symbolism. We have tried to raise wages for those who do not need to be raised first at the moment. This certainly had to be seen in a completely different way. Of course, the process is very rapid and, to be honest, this type of huge borrowing with fever does not prove to be a good thing. Colleagues from the position, you were really a voting machine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U922	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U923	Thank you. Dear President of the Saeima. Prime Minister, if you're still listening! Yes, thank you for having, at least in the end, been present and only heard the words of thanks that your colleagues have said. However, I would like to object a little bit and I would ask you not to say that this budget - both the 2022 budget and the medium-term budget - is a development budget. The development budget cannot be on debt. The development budget cannot be one that does not care for the people of its country. And the promises to the teachers... you have really done what other Prime Ministers and other ministers have given... That's why it missed a little... not the pleasure of someone having got something -- 500, 500, 500 -- but... It would be a joy to have given you some benefits to people, but in your speech we didn't hear the concerns of people and we didn't hear the benefits of people. I can only repeat: I very much hope that the additional budgetary resources that have been obtained will not be used by the Registry concerned and will thus show a warmness and also a symbolic attitude towards its own people, which is not entirely satisfied. And you know that well. So, a bit of self-criticism and a little bit of self-esteem! Then it would be much more objective, professional and pleasant. But thank you for being here at least at the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U924	Thank you. Debate... has not yet been closed. Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U925	Thank you to all your colleagues for all your words. I will take the view of the Ministry of Transport. As Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry, he tried to defend and explain all the proposals related to the Ministry of Transport. From the point of view of the Ministry of Transport, this budget... with regard to the Ministry of Transport, it has been designed in a constructive and well-understood way. In my opinion, this is focused both on development and on correcting the mistakes of the previous years, as it was possible within the framework of this budget. I, too, would like to thank both the opposition and the coalition, those who have spoken constructively. There were both constructive criticisms and constructive proposals. And I hope that we will continue to work more constructively than more our feathers for the purposes of polishing. Thank you all. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U926	I closed the debate. That's... Dear colleagues, too, on this proposal... The speakers have spoken more about the budget as a whole, but less about the specific proposal. I have to say that this is a certain tradition in Parliament. I see that the vote has also been requested on this proposal. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U927	In the Commission, proposal 232 was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U928	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 232. - A proposal from the Cabinet! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U929	Colleagues, we have therefore examined all 232 proposals. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission supported the adoption of the draft law on the state budget 2022 at second, final, final reading. I call for support to be given to this draft law at second, final, reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-23-PT13-2328-U930	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On the state budget for 2022” in the second, final, reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Dear colleagues, So we have examined the agenda for the second remote emergency session on 15 November this year. Among the many thanks that have been given today, I would like to add a lot of thanks to the consultants of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, to our Legal Office, to the Saeima's Meeting Security Unit, to the Saeima's Administration and to all those members of the Saeima who have been involved in the provision of the Saeima's sittings. The work was late in the evening, and the work was very tense. Thank you very much for the impeccable conduct of the parliamentary sittings, which were devoted to the examination of the national budget. There's also a record of Members. The registration will be closed. As a result, I closed the second remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 15 November this year. Good evening!
