ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U1	Dear colleagues, We will begin the second remote emergency sitting on 7 January 2021. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Personal Data” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Legal Cooperation and Protection of the Rights of Persons during the Transitional Period after the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland leaves the European Union” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Control of Business Support” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda - consideration of draft decisions. The draft decision “On the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 22 December 2020 No. 797 and 30 December 2020 Orders No. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 655 ‘Proclaiming an emergency’. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U2	Good morning, dear colleagues! On January 6, 2021, the Commission of Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention reviewed the orders of the Cabinet of Ministers of 22-30 December 2020 amending the decree of declared emergency and extending the emergency situation until 7 February 2021. As a rule, I will only mention the most important things, I will not refer everything to. So the first. More stringent self-insulation requirements were set for persons who arrived in Latvia with a return flight approved by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs during the period until January 1, this year, when traffic with the United Kingdom was stopped. It is known that such a flight from England was organized on December 28th. The order provided that these persons would stay in isolation at a state-paid hotel for the prescribed 10-day self-insulation period. In order to ensure the effectiveness of self-insulation measures, it was established that the place of residence should not be left during self-insulation. With the renewal of flights from the United Kingdom, the obligation to carry out Covid-19 tests on public funds at an airport from that territory is imposed. It was established that if a person is able to document that he or she has been suffering from Covid-19 or that he or she has carried out a test within the last 72 hours, he or she will be able to do so again at the airport. The Cabinet also approved the support mechanism for accommodation services offered by the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Health at its meeting on 22 December last year. The list of accommodation places is published on the website of the Investment and Development Agency of Latvia (LIAA). Initially, the orders from 23 December last year until 4 January of this year, but now - for an indefinite period of emergency in hospital hospitals, the provision of scheduled day hospital and scheduled hospital health care services, with the exception of emergency medical care... emergency assistance, as well as oncological, life-saving and also operations which may lead to invalidity as a result of their abolition. In addition, orders to limit the spread of infection included the prohibition of moves, meetings and pickets in outdoor spaces, fireworks and close public events. Moreover, as you know, during the holidays, the citizens were subject to restrictions on movement - from 30 December 2020 to 4 January 2021 and from 8 January 2021 to 10 January 2021 - they are not allowed to leave their homes from 22.00 to 5.00. This restriction was introduced with certain exceptions, for example, the prohibition of movement does not apply to persons who, during that period, are performing or are on the way to or from work. Also, by completing the relevant attestation, a person may leave his or her place of residence if it is necessary to prevent the risk to the life or health of a person or domestic animal, as well as in other exceptional cases. The Ordinance also presupposes that private measures can only take place within a single household, including fireworks only for one household. In addition, the amendments also provided for an exception to the operation of permanent outlets set up by economic operators in prisons in order to guarantee the extent of the rights of the prisoners in accordance with epidemiological safety requirements. The orders also require the use of oral and nasal cover for visitors in nature trails, in museum outdoors, and in environmental objects if there are a large number of people there. The amendments also provide for an exception to the use of oral and nasal lids when broadcasting or recording culture, religious activity live. An explanation of the use of the oral and nasal cover in television and radio programmes for interviews lasting more than 15 minutes is also included. The amendments also provide for the possibility of an increase in the premium for the staff of the National Blooddonor Centre. In the Commission, having heard representatives of the ministries, institutions, Infectologists, a representative of the Ombudsman’s Office, amendments to the orders laid down by the Government and the extension of the emergency situation were deemed justified, proportionate and necessary in the specific situation. I therefore call for support to be given to the draft Saeima decision prepared by the Commission. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U3	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name of Minister for the Interior Sandis Girgens. Mr. Girgens will speak in the debate as a representative of the Cabinet of Ministers. The name's Sandy-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U4	Good morning, Mrs. Moore. Members of the Saeima! I am authorised to speak as a representative of the Cabinet of Ministers when examining the order No. 801, as amended by Order of 6 November 2020 No. 655 Promulgating an emergency. In order to reduce the prevalence of Covid-19 infection in society and the number of infected, especially during the New Year’s holidays, government experts - the Secretariat of the Crisis Management Board, the Inter-institutional Coordination Group and also the State Chancellery - recommended the introduction of increased restrictions based on the country’s current epidemiological situation, which clearly deteriorated, as well as an assessment of the current epidemiological situation, and we all assessed these Covid-19 infection rates and the number of patients hospitalised with Covid-19 infection. And it should be pointed out here that it is very important for us to take up these up-to-date data from the epidemiologists, and we see that these data have deteriorated. The projections provided by the Disease Prevention and Control Centre for the number of patients hospitalized with Covid-19 showed that the situation would not improve and that further measures were needed to reduce the incidence of this infection and to provide the necessary healthcare services for the immediate and acute... Patients as well as Covid-19 patients. Another very important moment, as well as the epidemiologists... by given data... notes that as a result of the spread of this virus, doctors become ill and that consequently there is a lack of labour resources to fight against both the spread of the virus and the... not only, let us say, to reduce the Covid–19 virus, but also, in fact, other treatment services need to be reduced, and this situation is quite serious and worrying. According to the experts, Covid-19 patients are not only cared for in three hospital clinics, but also in seven regional, two local multi-profil hospitals and three first-line hospitals, as well as six specialised hospitals. Out of the 1326 beds created on 28 December 2020, for the treatment of Covid–19 patients in 15 hospital hospitals (two clinical university hospitals, seven regional hospitals, two local hospitals and three first level hospitals, including Children’s Clinical University Hospital) there were already 1213 beds on January 6. And, as I said, this trend shows that these data are deteriorating, the number of beds is falling, and so there was a need to act decisively in an emergency. Current epidemiological situation, infections... morbidity rates and the number of patients hospitalised show that overall there is no improvement in the situation in the country and, as I said, there is a need for additional measures to reduce the spread of infection and to maintain and provide the necessary healthcare services not only for the Covid-19 patients but also for other patients with other acute diseases. We need to think, of course, not only about those who have been infected with the Covid-19 virus, but also about those who need medical assistance for other diseases. Consequently, once again and again, I only try to repeat that, whatever the public environment would point out or say, or question why there is one or the other decision, I think that there is no reason for interpretation, that there is a reduction in the number of people available to treatment and that this is a very difficult case. In the country, we must not allow our available medical staff and support staff to go into a minority. The long - term situation of this kind will, in fact, further undermine not only the health situation but also prevent other people from receiving other treatment services. As we can see, this trend in the long term may, unfortunately, lead to people... death, death. Every human life, however, is our country... Responsibilities. The government must therefore also act decisively and follow the instructions of the epidemiologists. What, then, did the experts point out, to what risks did they stress why such restrictions were necessary? So, first of all, it was obvious that there would be increased human mobility and assembly activity during the Christmas and late-end celebrations, which would indicate a greater risk of transmission of infection, linked to the gathering of people in less ventilated rooms due to lower outdoor temperature; the celebration of eating and, therefore, of drinking in the immediate vicinity of the persons, without the use of oral and nasal covers. During celebrations, caution is reduced and people, of course, allow more risky situations. We can see that... Let us not be naive, and we also drink alcoholic beverages in the New Year. During celebrations, there is a greater likelihood that during family celebrations, people from a higher risk group due to Covid-19 health problems come into contact with younger people, i.e. children, grandchildren belonging to a higher risk group from infection... from the point of view of the transmission of infection; increased mobility of people through greater use of public transport to move within urban areas, including from one region of the country to another. We can already see... When it wasn't this one, let's say, Covid-19... We can see that people's habits must be taken into account - at midnight, when a few hours are shot, people sit, as I said, in public transport as well as in taxis, and there is a tendency to go to places of entertainment or to go to one another. Of course, we have seen that there is also a possibility of going on ski resorts, for example. And then after the end of the New Year, the above mentioned persons from other countries, where the situation is also not good, actually return to Latvia. And then there's a question if we always... Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, a situation in which it makes sense for a country to maintain this type of restriction for a long time if, in fact, we are not able to prevent this type of risk in good time. Therefore, Christmas and New Year are a period during which, as the epidemiologists warned, decisive decisions must be made so as not to deteriorate the situation. I'll let some, though... As the sittings of the Saeima are also being listened to by people from the nation, I would like to clarify. For many citizens, it is still unclear why an emergency situation has been detected in the country and what this means at all. The exceptional situation is a special legal regime during which the Cabinet of Ministers has the right to restrict, in accordance with the procedure and scope of law, the rights and freedoms of institutions, natural and legal persons of the state administration and municipalities, as well as to impose additional duties on them. The emergency may be declared in the event of a threat to a country related to a disaster, its threat or the threat to critical infrastructure where there is a serious threat to the safety of the State, the public, the environment, economic activity or human health and life. And, as I said, whatever we can see in Facebook or other social networks - different theories about what the community is, how sticky it is, how sticky it is - I mean, and also the government, there are such essential indicators that no one can challenge. One of these indisputable facts is the lack of medical staff, and although someone would write some comments or make any interesting videos, I would urge people to listen, if we lack medical staff, then that is a problem, and this is not just about the community. If this virus is persistent, not as a flu, perhaps in the autumn, during the winter season, but it is persistent all year round - cold or warm... and here it is about the transmission of virus from man to man... We have to try to break this curve, we have to reduce the spread of the virus - like, or don't like... One, of course, will get more mildly sick, the other has severe consequences, the other has pneumonia at all, and the other, unfortunately... Family members also lose their lives. Its main problem is to stop the transmission of virus from human to human, and the transfer... Stoping such a transfer, especially that endangers our health system and endangers our doctors, because I also point out to many other people - those who ask me questions - if, for example, there is another disaster in your life - there is a leg broken, but you do not have access to a traumatologist, but unfortunately he is ill with a community, or, if you do not give God, he is dead, to whom you will go? And where will you get other services? Is - where will you go if, for example, you do not have access to this infrastructure for health, emergency health, services? Consequently, I call on people to critically assess various types of information on social networks, to think about aspects that cannot be called into question, and also from this perspective, to assess from this point of view the need for government decision-making. Now here, and therefore, returning to these extraordinary (not to be heard.) ... It should be borne in mind that government decisions are also based on the National Civil Protection Plan and the National Security Law. And the Law on Civil Protection and Disaster Management states that the State must provide a civil protection system, all measures to prevent any threat, any disaster... for the country as well as for the population as a whole. And, as I said, nothing can be more important than human safety, health and life. I would also like to highlight the following: the risks and epidemics. The epidemic is therefore considered to be a high risk and, if it is introduced, the capacity of the health sector is being significantly burdened. And, as I also pointed out, this number of workers... ill or inability... caring for sick children or other people... may affect the provision of services of public interest, such as water, electricity, fire response, rescue and other safety-related events. And here I can say once again - at the same service in the home affairs system (unhearable.) ... If we suffer from the same firefighters, border guards, police, and emergency situations, do not give us God, fire, or any internal security threat that will prevent this threat? So once again, I call on people to think that it's not just - I get sick, recovered, it doesn't apply to me, or the fact that in my circle of acquaintances, perhaps someone... someone who has not come into contact with this type of virus - this does not mean that the problem does not exist in the country. Personally, I can say that our services are also suffering from severe pneumonia. There's also a man in my circle of acquaintances who, even doing a test... seems to be all right, but remains worse with health, and after an in-depth test it has been found that there is already pneumonia in severe form, and, thank God, has survived. People get sick in our services, for weeks they are cut off from work, thank God, many come back. One has been easier, the other is more difficult. And we can see that... Now, of course, old people die, too, and I express my sympathy to everyone who hears me, to those who are in contact with it... but there is also a tendency that this mortality is... we are also dealing with people in the latest groups. So we should prevent... We should prevent these deaths. Clearly, we need to protect the elderly... We're not gonna protect everyone, but... At the same time, it is its responsibility to us individually - it is only dependent on our individual understanding. So, whatever we think or do again, then also assess those government decisions from the point of view that we are trying to help reduce risks in the country. One or the other decision may be called into question, one or the other decision being discussed or similarly, but looking at the big goal. We can see that the situation is even worse in other countries. Whatever you say about Latvia and Latvia's restrictions, other countries have already settled two pilots, think about the third, there have been more significant legal restrictions. And it has to be said that in this sense, however, in Latvia we have assessed all applicable legal restrictions as carefully as possible so that we can work. Yes, I agree with a group of people who have been unemployed, but again... people need to understand one thing - these are connected vessels, not that Latvia is isolated from the world's economic cycle. The same tourism. Even if Latvia were allowed to work in a particular sector, financial stability of this sector depends, for example, on the influx of foreign tourists, but if the flights are currently the ones... There wasn't one moment at all - in the first wave, now it's renewed... It should be taken into account that in other countries income is falling for people as well, other people are physically unable to reach Latvia. A sector (not only in Latvia, but also elsewhere) will need at least two years to recover. Clearly, within two years there will be no big tourism... large flows and that we will have to think about how to help these sectors even more until air traffic returns... everyday traffic, or everyday habits, as people used to travel. All of this takes time. It is therefore generally clear that the government is working towards providing greater financial support. And here I call again... Sorry, I have to talk about this: sectoral experts... I have always stressed, and colleagues in the government also stress that it is not just a government that makes final decisions, that there is a need for epidemiologists to work with sectoral experts together in working groups and come up with solutions, because the epidemiologists have one: they want to keep people alive, to prevent risks, but at the same time we cannot just think, yes, our only problem is to make money. Of course, I also took care, and the government as a whole, of entrepreneurship, but the industry itself must come up with qualitative proposals in order, together with the epidemiologists, to make this qualitative offer for the government, in order to strike a balance between national development, national security, economic stability and also epidemiological security. So this balance must always be sought everywhere. That's why... exiting the balance... At its meeting on 30 December 2020, the Cabinet of Ministers weighed on all “for” and “for” and decided: to extend the state’s declared emergency until 7 February; to – reduce the risk of gathering people and transferring infections by protecting public safety and health interests – in addition to the existing bans on organising public events in person – prohibit the organisation of meetings, moves, pickets; to reduce the prevalence of Covid-19 infection in public communication, especially during public holidays, inviting citizens not to receive guests, as well as not to go on private visits, to impose increased restrictions on the movement of citizens or home sitting only targeted (not linearly, but aimed at) - on holidays during a given day-time period - from 30 December 2020 to 4 January 2021 and from 8 January 2021 to 10 January 2021, imposing on citizens a ban to leave their place of residence from 22.00 until 5 p.m.m. The prohibition shall end on 4 January 2021 at 5.00 and on 10 January 2021 at 5.00. And it should be borne in mind here that bans are not of any kind in commandant hours; there is no reason to use a term of this kind. The prohibition is, of course, a right to be violated, but at the same time the prohibition does not affect the right to move on certain dates and time for persons performing their duties or duties during that period. So I repeat: there is no command hour, and there is no limit on the right that would apply completely to all those who do not... which would prevent work from being carried out. On the contrary, so we point out that there was a right and a right to work... to carry out their duties and to be on the way from work to home or from house to work. At the same time, as I said, there was also a permit to leave if there had been a need to prevent the risk to humans or animals... for the life or health of domestic animals. And in cases where this life or health hazard exists or medical assistance is needed, you can contact the emergency service for help... emergency medical treatment. At the same time, it should be pointed out that we have had cases when a person takes, for example, the same pet to the house, then in this case also the State Police is quite... and the rest - the local police, the Landguard - were quite open, intelligible, and no person in this kind of case is called under administrative responsibility, and there was no and no such instruction to call all in a row under administrative responsibility. Once again, therefore, I call on many not to spread false news, and it must be shown that these rules and prohibitions are quite reasonable. And those people who don't actually go to work or from work to home... Well, of course... There are no problems for a couple of days to stay from 22.00 to 5.00, because there are also meaningful and logical exceptions. Well, here's how Mr. Ranzan pointed out all these... all these restrictions, but I would perhaps like to highlight as the last one the most important things about the state police, cooperation with the local government police and the National Armed Forces, including the Land Guard. So we have seen that there is actually also a tendency to increase the number of criminal offences, the number of family conflicts, domestic violence, and it is precisely these specific, say, restrictions or restrictions on the rights that have been imposed, with exceptions, that have, however, reduced the number of criminal offences, and, in an emergency, we can see, this security situation has been significantly improved. At the end of the year, around 100 drunkards have been detained. This is a larger number than in other years, because such large-scale inspections have, of course, not been carried out at national level for the following years. And using this situation, regardless of the time of the Covid-19, I would ask people to think they could go to the steering wheel and risk another and their own people... the life of their own and co-shipper, and the life of others at all, is unacceptable. I don't know what it is about in Latvia about the tradition of being alcohol both at and outside the festival... in the drink at the steering wheel of the vehicle, this is not acceptable. We can see that during your home sitting, of course... The services found out that many people were aggressive, and this was based on the consumption of alcoholic beverages. I have to say, we are very disappointed that there is a separate part of the people who have been allowed to throw items on the vehicles of the operational services, as well as dogs on the territory of private homes to actually interfere with the police in carrying out their direct duties if there have been calls. There have also been a number of disobedients to present documents, and there have been attacks on police officers during the negotiations. During last holidays we have checked 24 975 persons in general. In the context of non-compliance with housekeeping restrictions, the police initiated 3421 administrative violations, as well as in addition to those initiated... a further 1041 reports on which the administrative process will be launched. The most administrative processes were registered in the Riga region - in total 1519, while in 8478 cases persons were given preventive instructions and reproofs. So we see that the number of preventive instructions, references, which are without the application of an administrative penalty in monetary terms, is higher than the number of administrative penalties imposed. It should also be noted that four criminal proceedings have been initiated against police officers. And it's hard that people permit the State Police to behave unethically, attack, as I said, physically. We've had a police officer with physical injuries on his face. I would also like to say, send a message to those who do it - as I said first of all, the National Police is meant to protect society and society... Any individual would have the opportunity to get to the police officer and receive protection. But if physical, verbal aggression is applied against the police, then there will not only be administrative irregularities, but there will also be criminal proceedings. And I think the state police action in Latvia is very liberal. We have done everything to increase our... The prestige of the national police and law enforcement authorities in general. Personally, I also paid attention to being (A sound break.) ... ethical, professional communication with people so that people have the pleasure of working with us, helping and improving the internal security of the country together. But those entities which, as a result, oppose this form of disrespect not only the State police, but generally those restrictions which, on the one hand, are aimed at the common good in order to reduce the spread of the virus... We have not for any time prohibited people from expressing their displeasure in social networks or on the street, but all of them have their own borders. There is, as I said, ethics, there is acceptable communication, not aggressive communication, filming, physical harassment, sewing or presence of alcohol... drink and other things. We will fight such things. And I think we shouldn't be quite... in such cases. And the main question: did the government's restrictions at the end of the year work and were effective? I believe that - yes, because the limitation of human mobility, assembly activity at the end of the year, no matter how unpleasant, has made it possible to reduce the spread of the virus. It is clear that these indicators are not as good as they should perhaps be, but every limitation, as the epidemiologists say, has a four- to five-week handicap in which we can assess whether they work or not. And if we hadn't adopted this kind of right restriction that generally people who... Let's say, who didn't have any connection to the job, especially didn't matter... I believe, however, that you can encourage... reduce the risk of transmission of infection. All of us have the aim of returning to normal life, working, because nothing can be worse than unemployment, income reduction, accumulated bills. We have to deal with all this, so people still have to endure, and we have to endure another home sitting, which is scheduled for the period from January 8 to January 10, which prohibits leaving their home (with the exceptions I mentioned) from 8 a.m. to 5 a.m. Let us respect ourselves, respect those who provide us with medical services, respect those who seek to ensure and ensure our safety. Let us all be tolerant to one another (A sound break.) ... Thank you to the services. I believe that in this short period of time both the State Border Guard (Sound Break.) ... The police, the State Security Service, the municipal police, the National Armed Forces, the Land Guard has shown a very high level of professional readiness and self-sustaining action during this period. And, of course, I also welcome the Orthodox and Old Believers to Christmas Day, the Day of the Birth of Christ. Good health for everyone! Also Members of the Saeima. Thank you for listening to my speech. Good health and safe for you new - 2021. - year! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U5	Thank you to the Minister for the Interior. Name in the debate for Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U6	Good morning! Can I hear you?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U7	We hear you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U8	Good morning, colleagues! First of all, I wish everyone well in the new year! And the best vaccine is optimism and a positive attitude towards life. And that's why I have such a strange feeling every time I decide about these government corporations, realizing that it's a kind of current ridicule about Latvia as a democratic state, where the Saeima, the people's elected standing, is used as a fig page that could cover its failure and incompetentness. And not because we should decide and give our acceptance of what has already happened, which is absurd and basically indicates the role that this regime of power has given to the parliament, that is, the people of Latvia. This absurdity is also reinforced by the way in which the Saeima is proposed to decide on it. That is - simply a decree is being dropped from the government without any justification that must now be voted on. That's, like the cattle, what you throw into the pen, you have to eat it too. Mr. Karins! You have expressed your indignation at the work of the Minister for Health that she is presenting to the Government at the last minute the necessary documents to decide that it is not possible to work. But, Mr Kariņš, your government is doing even worse: you do not submit such documents to the Saeima at all, or if you submit them, then almost all your decisions are submitted to the Saeima at the last moment. We are only here today morning, already when we have to decide, at the last moment we hear some of the reasons that are quickly read from the page. Mr Kariņš called on me not only to criticise him, but also to help him with advice, and it seems that they could really help him now, because, as we can see, he has listened to me and has decided to become a Prime Minister. And that's why, while he's still a Prime Minister... How would it be normal? If the power were powerful, it would be able to understand what it is doing and what it has to do, so it would move around, not by its own small, prick order, requiring that we accept it, but coming first and foremost on the basis of this order, and it would consist, first of all, of an analysis of the current situation! - Not just data that someone reads to us with big eyes. Possible measures to be taken in this situation and their analysis would then be taken. Next, on the basis of this analysis, the range of measures proposed and their justification. And you would do all this in a timely manner, so that you can evaluate and judge your decisions and, if necessary, improve them or correct them, but there is nothing like that, which means that you are either an explained genius to whom everything is clear (you have enough momentary revelations from heaven about what should be done, and you simply follow this providity, and I guess the primary task of the government is to stick together, that is, the mantra that you are always repeating, that is your quote), or in fact you are a bar of the hips and the wicked, that doesn't mean anything they do or should do in the trap... Climb and lie in your fear and in your ignorance, and therefore you must stick together, so that you may not fall away and remain in power, because otherwise you will simply disappear. I would like to point out that the main task of the government is not to stay together, but to take care of Latvian society. If you care about Latvian society, if you were able to take care of it, then you would explain and justify your decisions to the public. And it also explains this strange government communication with the public, when government PR has allocated as much money as it has never been, but communication does not lead to anything; and does not lead to the fact that, at times, the best government can do in this situation is to obey, because almost every attempt of its communication is catastrophic. It shows how incompetent, irresponsible and insidious this government is. If this is not the case, explain your genius decision to me and to the whole of Latvian society. How can limiting socks and gloves during winter help to fight the community? Well, well, as a person with a living imagination, I can still understand why limiting socks can help in some way to fight the community, but what you have done with your decisions... There is really a valid question: where do you think? Well, I guess the same thing you're afraid of, because it's all... It looks like your classic Excel thinking. I call for my debates to be brought together.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U9	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U10	Such a classic Excel thinking as you usually did with the budget. You think you'll change something, say you'll figure out that one position... procurement positions will be less in the store, then people will spend less time in the store, they will buy less, but in reality the barrack you created had the opposite effect. Consider an example. I can... from a situation that I myself had. I've lost light here - above the desk - and a lamp has been burned. I would normally go to the construction store and buy it. It would take a couple of minutes. But as a result, I had to look for it first at a single supermarket, a supermarket... I didn't find it, then I found it in only a second supermarket, spent a lot more time than if it had been normal to create this shopping scheme thoughtfully. And that's why one of me... And I'm sure like I've been thousands... and therefore one of my suggestions, knowing that today the government will decide on restrictions, on this range of restrictions, is to call for a look at two... such cases of principle. One thing is that there is no point in limiting certain groups of products to those shops where trade takes place. The other thing is that in those shops that are used not for entertainment, but really is a necessity... Let's take, building materials stores... that it is not there to restrict this trade, but simply to impose conditions under which these shops could work in order to ensure the necessary security. And the most important thing I would like to call on you, Mr. Karin... The most important thing we should start thinking about in good time... well, you have failed with a vaccination plan, but at the moment it is very important to start thinking in good time about how we will develop our economy, how we will get out of this crisis, about this recovery, the recovery, the absorption plan, not just the absorption plan, but so that we do it meaningfully. Because if we do not do so (like the vaccination plan) or if we fail with all these community measures, it will not be for hundreds of thousands of lives - it will be for the existence of our entire nation. So, Mr Kariņš, start thinking about it early, because there will be exactly the same soap, exactly the same irresponsibleness as it was with everything your government did.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U11	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U12	Hello, Madam President. Congratulations to you on last anniversary! And I also want to take this opportunity to congratulate all the Orthodox and Old Believers on Christmas that is today. Well, unfortunately, we need to work. But for those two reports, of course, it is as if, on the one hand, they need to be adopted, but they need to be adopted when they are prepared, not when we are already living in the following calendar year. The limitations that Mr. Zarins also mentioned, of course, are life - something every day... one needs a new teapot, the other needs to change the water heater, the third needs gloves or boots, because children spend a lot of leisure time in the fresh air, run, play and, of course, the gloves lose, shoes die because they are not very high. This must be taken into account. I also want to contact the Cabinet of Ministers - please take it one time, go to the supermarket and see what happened there. Why, for example, is trade in commercial goods prohibited in one supermarket, the other is not. But we have shops that may never have been there and there is no conflict. — Not clear. ... people because they just don't go there, they go to other stores. Why can't there be a ban... Why can't trade there? Or, for example, what I noticed in the same store... I too... that one week is allowed to sell alcohol, the other is not. So that's kind of weird, it looks like it's all. But focus on this... for our report on the threat of epidemiological security in relation to Covid-19 infection, that, for example, it has already been shown that on 6 December six countries were... there is a steady increase in the distribution of the cord. And what are we doing? It's like we're not doing a lot, but right now, in a month, when we're going on... Among the six European countries, where there are all the Baltic countries, we also live almost the same way. So maybe we need to look at what we did last year in March: we limited ourselves right away, and it was effective. And at that time, in spring, we were one of the six best European countries with good, positive results. Now we're in another... When I asked the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, where there is a problem, I unfortunately did not get an answer. Where is the analysis - what did we do wrong? Perhaps the Cabinet does not need to tear or divide those posts there, but simply think about the people, how better to draw attention to it that they were (not clear to hear.) ... Whereas, now, ask the owner of all the trade... specialists, how they see that situation. If, as we know, these wheels can enter, for example, “Depo” shopping, then why not in other stores? Just need to sit next to the cash registers, not three cashiers, but 10 cashiers, to sit next to cashiers and serve people more quickly so that they can get out faster. Maybe you don't have to put so many people in, but... so they go through the whole store to shop, while others can wait, for example, outside. Well, if we want this business to continue, the business people themselves also need to think about how they see it all, and turn to the government, the ministers, to act. We also need to think about our tourism. If people, knowing that there are restrictions in the country and throughout the European Union, allow them to send their children, for example, to Britain during a pandemic, so that they relax there and spend their holiday with their relatives, and then we need to organize their return to Latvia for public funds... Well, it also shows that you don't go so well with our thinking. If a person commits that he wants to send his children to rest somewhere, then, apologies, how do I pay for it? Just like... If, for example, Cyprus is among the six countries where the community is growing, and we are sending charter flights there... People are going to rest in Cyprus and then they're going back and bring us the same... On border restrictions. We have already asked in September: what are on the borders, why are we not controlling the border? There was no answer. No, we're not doing anything at the borders. I'm calling... Please give me one more minute.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U13	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U14	Yeah, thank you. Just like... All members of the Cabinet of Ministers, Members, also, a letter from sports specialists, sports activists, as well; they demand that people be allowed to exercise. Of course, all these rules must be complied with, but sport events can be organised under their own responsibility. If it happens, for example, hockey games, basketball games, other professional teams also participate in competitions without... ( Not to be heard.) Well, then maybe also in some other sports... Maybe we can allow them to sports. Because sport helps to strengthen immunity, and time spent in fresh air has a positive effect, it is said by all doctors, not just sports specialists. You need to think. But we have an analytical department near the Cabinet of Ministers that thinks about it. If we also pay a lot of money to international organisations to sit and explore what is happening with the Covid-19 around the world, then we need to use their potential to avoid, for example, that one country does something for one country and the other for the other. If we are in the European Union... All European countries need to act as a whole at once, in one day, and stop that community at once, rather than let it be there... This is very important because we are paying for it. The doctors themselves have already announced this... We can buy bed, but we don't have specialists. Of course, we can probably be able to train specialists in medicine during a half - year period, but they do not have such knowledge; they cannot even learn this in a half - year period by all those who study medicine. And it's a problem for the coming months as well...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U15	Thank you, Mr. Clementyev. The debate is over. The name of the Minister for the Interior, Sandy-Girgen, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U16	Thank you, Chairman of the Saeima. I will answer Mr Klementyev's question: where is the problem. The problem is that, you see, there's... can already talk, but it's important to have a team. It does not matter whether it is a position or an opposition. I see, for example, a single set of Members and Members have to work with the government - and vice versa. It's not the time to show each other with your finger, but you have to put your heads together. Everyone has his/her life experience, knowledge, competence, and this is the time to show initiative, meet together in different forums and offer each other the best solutions. Personally, I'm every... and my colleagues also meet with industry professionals. The same shops you're talking about... I can say, by putting my hand on the heart, that I have met with representatives of shopping centres and have called for the same issues of human flows, for example. I have been talking for several months about the need to put in place technical tools to group in logical order large, medium-sized... and to small ones perhaps by extending other rules... However, in large supermarkets introduce adjustable flow... regulation of human flows in order not to restrict the product group concerned. And, you know, there's a situation like this... For example, industry representatives... I'm not going to tell you who's not gonna hurt... One day he says: “Mr. Girgen, government, please let us... give us the right to regulate the flow of people in shopping centres! We can do everything.” I say, "Very good!" And the next day in another sitting, I am listening: "You know, it's time that we should not be fined 50 euros for the violation of these self-regulation rules!" Fifty euros - to the big supermarket! ‘ We cannot control anything." Well, I'm sorry, one day you say, “We can do everything!” , but on the other day in the official commission you say that you can't do anything. Therefore, my call should be, however, rational - not just to talk about how it should be, but to come with concrete proposals. In particular, I call on the industries to delegate really professional people, who want to work at night, even if they want to work at night... Like I'm working. My colleagues are working night-to-night to come together to working groups with specific epidemiological safety plans. Whether it is a sports sector or trade, whether it is catering or some other sphere, because we all need to convince the epidemiologists of what each sector can offer in addition to reducing the risk of virus spreading. And if we can convince the epidemiologists, it's all in this community... The Operational Steering Group (OCG) sets out concrete proposals, which have already been discussed qualitatively, are on the government table, and the government should then no longer conduct a debate and simply adopt them. And then, too, it is very easy for the public to explain. It is not the government, the Prime Minister or the Minister that has to come, as they say, at the press conference, but the press conference has to come from the epidemiologists, the industry. I say: we have discussed, we have come up with, we believe that it is necessary to make such a decision at the moment. And it is based on logic, data and everything, everything else. That's why... Once again: please delegate professionals - people who not only speak but come with concrete proposals, work qualitatively! And I think the situation will improve. We certainly have to get out of this emergency quickly so that people can... and entrepreneurs would work, regain their daily rhythm and economic activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U17	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U18	Good morning, honourable colleagues, the new year! It should be said that today's representative of the government, the honourable Minister for the Interior, has tried to explain to Members why and how one or the other government order is adopted in the event of an emergency. Undoubtedly, this is a positive trend! Despite the fact that there were a lot of emotions there, it is very positive. The other thing I'd like to say. It is time, however, to distinguish two things that are primary. The first thing is the situation in health care, in medicine. And here are different... various things that should be discussed much more seriously. The first thing is the health of the doctors themselves, because the disease in the medical environment means that there is not everything done there to the end. That's the point one. Two points. When talking about health care problems, the second thing is the number of beds required, the reserve for those cases... anticipating worse situations rather than optimal developments. Thirdly, there is the problem of vaccination, which we have not yet talked about seriously. I think we haven't thought seriously yet. That's why... It is the first block of questions, which is extremely important for the government, for society, for all of us. The second issue is the spread of the virus. The virus is spreading and moving from man to man... man... not between groups of goods, but between how... how the same processes, including trade processes, are organised... It cannot be said that the flowers, let's say, carry the viruses, but let's say the alcohol isn't, and so on, and so on. Therefore, the main thing here is not to limit certain groups of goods, but to limit trading opportunities, where people could go to each other, because what happens today in large grocery stores... Despite all the restrictions, these rules are not respected there. And it would not be bad if ministers also went through shops and looked at nature as it is organized. The third thing I'd like to say. Indeed, what we are dealing with today is like an absurd theatre. The Government shall adopt an order, shall be responsible for its actions and shall subsequently bring this document to the Saeima for approval by a decision of the Council. For what?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, If it is the responsibility of the government, the government must assume that responsibility in full. Therefore, I think that the decision we are debating today does not make any sense and does not make any sense. That is why I personally cannot support this type of decision, either in substance or in form, because its procedure is purely bureaucratic and purely stupid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U19	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U20	Good morning, dear colleagues! I, too, wish health - above all, health - in the new year! What I would like to say in relation to these orders is... First of all, of course, the fact that the Saeima is now taking such reconfirmation of orders seems a little strange from the side... e.g. whether you can go outside at night of New Year or not. If you, fellow Members, think it is normal, then I do not, and in that situation I will once again urge - and I will call on my fellow Members to support it - that the reapproval of such orders must take place within a reasonable time, immediately (as is provided for in Article 62 of the Satversme for such situations). Unfortunately, the emergency law... The "extraordinary situation and exceptional situation", as we can see, gives the Saeima a very large whale to delay the examination of these issues as long as it can. And it's a miracle that we're not still deciding about spring... how we have gone in spring and what we have then banned. But if you're serious, then... on all these prohibitions, which my colleagues have already mentioned... I actually have such a suspicion that we're again... Well, the government has again misunderstood something, somewhere... on one side heard something and then tried to adapt it to Latvian circumstances. We are talking about lists of goods, of prohibited goods. Well, there's a suspicion that we're looking at a whole comically at the common European background in the sense that these goods, prohibited goods... product prohibitions... Lists of prohibited goods in other countries have been formed because governments were forced to make such decisions in an attempt to level this competition in some way... and... not by looking at whether you have the right to buy socks and plasticine or not. That's right. Because, for example, in France... if we were talking about these bans, they came about because the owners of small shops, unable to provide these square meters and the necessary measures for their visitors, were forced to close their shops in order to ensure... to make this competition respect as possible. Then it was also decided to draw up this list for the big shops. Just for that reason, all these nightmares have actually arisen. And not because... Here, a wise man in the government has come up with a list of what we are allowed to do... whether we are allowed to buy e-tallons or not. Yes, such action by the Latvian Government will undoubtedly enter into history, and our colleagues in Europe will probably be laughing at it as well... laugh and keep laughing. If we are talking about these bans, you can really talk a lot and a long time and different situations... If you, honourable colleagues from the government, really are going to send children to school with these incomprehensible quality masks, then... You have not even thought about children going to need a drawer at school, that children will also need some shoes at school if the old ones break down. Where else to talk about kindergarteners who are now in general... work for everyone, work for everyone together! Go to the garden and risk life... goes with broken sandals, because sandals simply cannot and must be sent on the Internet. But if they order on the Internet and they don't work right away, then... Well, what to do? You've created such a comical situation... so comically tragic situation has caused in our country that... Well, weeping here is probably no point, just laughing with tears in the eyes of how you bring society to what situation you have taken, how you have led all Latvian families, leaving them without any means of subsistence and still offering a new game “Look at what you will not be allowed to buy today!” . Well, it's really nice! I will, of course, not support these amendments, nor will I support this extension of the emergency situation, because, in my view, this emergency situation should not be extended for as long as, as we remember, the government has the right to extend it on numerous occasions. Someday every week you can play with it. Until February 7, it's too long! I call for no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Time to break. Before the break, the name of the Member, Martin Bondar, for the announcement.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U22	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! A meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission shall be held in five minutes' time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U23	Thank you. Registration of Members. Registration is over. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U24	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues. We are continuing the discussion on the agenda of the second remote sitting of the Saeima on 7 January. On the agenda - draft decision “On Cabinet Order of 22 December 2020 No. 797 and 30 December 2020 Orders No. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 655 ‘Proclaiming an emergency’. We are continuing the debate on this draft decision. In the next debate, Mr Kabanov was the Member. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U25	Hello, colleagues! Hello, chair of the sitting! Please combine the times.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U26	The times are combined.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U27	Dear Members of the Saeima! We are currently discussing the draft decision of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption and we are also discussing the speech of the Minister of the Interior. In this regard, I would like to express my condolences to the ordinary staff of the Ministry of the Interior. The simple police carried out their work at this festival. Thousands of administrative protocols will, however, not be able to improve the epidemiological situation in our country. The usual police officers had to face confrontation with the people of Latvia, for whom the selective and unthought decisions of the government were not explained. Of course there were also real criminal offences, but most so-called commandant-hour offenders are not criminals, but our ordinary fellow citizens - like you and me. I also have good news for everyone. The Chief of Police Ruck recently said that the police will not be able to ensure the so-called sitting of houses in the future, because the Ministry of the Interior has no people or material resources to implement a dictatorship. So Latvia will not be a political state. There are also some bad news. The level of disease, despite all drastic decisions, is not falling. Every day brings us anti-records, hospitals are crowded, Morgis are full of bodies, it is necessary to reopen previously closed moors in hospitals and use mobile refrigerators to store the dead. It is a gloom of Latvian reality in 2021. Why was this all happening? But we also warned about it two years ago, when hundreds of medical staff gathered at the Saeima and protested against the failings of the then Minister Viņķele, her attitude towards medical staff. Several hundred medical workers, doctors, nurses, left Latvia a year ago... One and a half years ago. Now they're missing. Today, or next sitting, we will vote in favour of a new Minister for Health, another political nomination. Unfortunately, Latvia will find it easier to find a new Minister for Health than a new nurse. I will not vote in favour of this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U28	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U29	Hello, honourable leader of the Saeima sitting! Dear Members and honourable Members, I believe that consistent implementation of the recommendations of the World Health Organisation regarding the prevention and prevention of the spread of Covid-19 infection is the right way forward. And I support the action taken by the government, including by Ilze Viņķele, which strengthens the measures recommended by the WHO. I am referring to respect for social distance, the wearing of facial covers, and restrictions on public crowding. At the same time, as the second wave of epidemics rose, these sanitary regulations should inevitably have been closely linked to the government's policy of stabilising the economy and maintaining social guarantees. Was the government consistent? I don't think so. Since 21 December, there have been considerable restrictions on trade, and therefore also on trade in goods produced in Latvia. This has hit the economy even stronger. I consider this to be wrong. At the same time, ensuring social distance and a sensible, albeit strict, approach to the price of goods should stimulate demand on the market by providing each consumer with regular costs - up to a minimum monthly salary - in order to motivate producers and traders on the market. The extension of the duration of the emergency situation, without significantly changing its conditions for stabilising the economy, will mean an even closer assembly of this hub. That is why I do not support the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U30	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U31	Happy new year, Latvian people! Happy new year, colleagues, partners and opponents! And a happy Orthodox Christmas! And, as I sit here, when we are in power, this festival will be an official national holiday. And now it's a thing. I think it is enough for the government to laminate, because everything is clear to everyone. I think that society as a whole has seen that our power is not able to do anything. Can you name just one area, at least one thing where the power mechanism works as a train? Where is everything oiled and the mechanism for the benefit of the Latvian people? Maybe it's stealing, I agree. That could be where everything works. But someone else? Vaccination plan? Limits that you can't, baby gloves - you can't... Is that so? I was in the Rimi store yesterday, and on that one and a half closed stand, I think: how is the restriction of foil in trade limiting the spread of the virus? And then I came to the conclusion that there is some kind of logic there, that apparently the foil government has banned trade because then it will not be possible to make foil hats. And that's the restrictive, viral-limiting mechanism. We see so many absurd decisions! We see that there is no plan for power. We see that our country is led by people who fear it is unable to take responsibility and initiative - starting with Prime Minister Kariņš, who should lead this crisis, but who does not even know whether or not there is, and what is, or is not, the same vaccination plan; let us not talk about everything else. We see that our Minister of Defence is a table general who is afraid to take responsibility for health care by saying that he will not do it, even though the army has assumed that the orders are not being discussed, but the orders are being executed. And they should also be fulfilled by ministers if the Prime Minister says so. We can see that our basic trauma media stands out as a minister who has done nothing all summer and has been a champion, dancing disco, but then... When decisions are to be made, the only decision taken by the authority is to pay bonuses to the official. Perhaps during this time, instead of paying, to ask back and give back to doctors who still have 25 percent of their salary? We can see at this time that we have a community study of five million. Yesterday, the entire public space was available... with these studies, how to cut cucumbers and tomatoes... And there we spend money! I hope that someone will ever answer for this with a real prison sentence. And I hope that the Prime Minister will be so strong and will be able to demand this responsibility. I will remind you that it is the Prime Minister and Minister of Education and Science, Šuplinska, who has signed up to these studies to improve our situation. Our country continues the way to the edge of the blood, “due” to cowardly, gray, decision-making by inability politicians. And it's happened all this time. I think that everything is clear to society as a whole. I think we don't even have to criticise certain points in one order of the Cabinet of Ministers or another. It's all lit up, the public is on their hands. And I won't. I cannot support it if we do not have a brave and capable leader. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U32	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U33	Hello, colleagues! A successful new year! Thank you to the Minister for the Interior for his report. I would like to say straight away that my thoughts about both the limitations and the fact that all of this must be in a large balance sheet with compensatory measures and with many other things are very much in line with what the Minister has been talking about today. However, there is one particular circumstance that I want to talk about today, and here I would like not so much to hear from the Cabinet of Ministers, but to receive a reply from the Saeima Bureau. Unfortunately, Mr Ģirgens has already spoken twice as a representative of the Cabinet of Ministers, which means that he cannot speak more about this issue today, but perhaps Mr Kariņš, if he is connected, or any other representative of the Cabinet will also be able to introduce clarity on this issue. We colleagues all remember last December 30. We had been told that perhaps there would be a meeting of the Saeima around 12 noon. We were waiting, we were waiting, but after 12 noon, the message came that there would not be a sitting. And as far as I can see, it was scheduled to see at the sitting on 30 December what we are looking at today. I carefully examined the documents we had at our disposal, and... We are talking today about Order No 22 December. 797 approval and 30 December order No. 801 approval. So... Here's December 23... Order No 797, which has also been signed with a time stamp... It is clear that this has been sent to the Saeima at 6.50 a.m. on December 23 at the Saeima Bureau, or more rightly, and that, when the Saeima received this document, everything is clear. If we look at the second order, 30 December order No. 801... This document also states that it has been signed with a secure electronic signature, but when the document and its annexes have been revised several times, I do not find a reference to the time when it was received by the Saeima. And I would have two questions in this regard. One question - the Cabinet of Ministers. Looking at the Cabinet of Ministers' meeting, I see that still in the course of the meeting... No of this prepared order No Project 801... there are amendments, outside paragraphs have been taken, certain versions of paragraphs have been clarified... All this is understandable, but the question is: at what point was the order ready, and when was it sent to the Saeima? And the question to the Saeima Bureau - when order No. 801 with the corresponding request of the Cabinet of Ministers was received at the Saeima? Was it really so late that last year, even before these restrictions came into force, the Saeima could not look at it? At the moment, we are indeed, as Mr Dolgopolov said, in the role of a puppet: we have to decide on things that have already passed, and that is pointless. And, to be honest, I do not want to take part in such pointless decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U34	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U35	Hello, colleagues! First of all, I really congratulate all Orthodox and Old Believers on Christmas! It is a pity that this day is still not a holiday in the country. But I will now talk about what we are currently discussing. I agree with all my colleagues who have pointed out that there is no point in the substance of this discussion today, because all those government orders have already entered into force and the public have already responded accordingly to these orders. In my opinion, these orders crowned the previous summary of errors. I do not want to discuss now how correct or incorrect an event contained in these orders was. Using what the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Girgen, called for... I absolutely agree with the fact that at present there is no time to argue, but to join forces for the position and for the opposition. I would therefore remind you that I had already proposed to include - as a matter of urgency - last year! - representatives of the opposition at the crisis management centre. We are ready to help the government and the ruling coalition make the right decisions, which will be based on scientific research, on the whole of the scientist... And maybe we'll fix that mistake, which is now absolutely... clearly - that these government orders do not contain the right thing... the conclusions of the risk analysis. And the last one. I am aware that the vaccination plan for members of the government and the Saeima is intended only for May 2021. I think this is absolutely unacceptable, and I call on all the Members of the Saeima and all the Ministers of the Government to make sure that the government and the Members of the Saeima are vaccinated as soon as possible, so that we are the first to show the rest of the society and the people of Latvia that vaccination is the right step and perhaps the only step that could save our country in the current situation. I call on my colleagues to support my proposal, and I call on Mr. Girgens to send this message to the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U36	Thank you. So... No one has applied in the debate any more. The debate is closed. Mr. Rancan, you have a name. For the Commission
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U37	Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission. I therefore call for support for the draft decision drawn up by the Commission. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U38	So... Before the vote, I would like to confirm to the Saeima that all documents that came in before 30 December or before the parliamentary sitting, possibly announced or scheduled, were submitted to the committee in due time, but no such order document was received from the Cabinet of Ministers. I just got... I am sorry, so 15.50 has been registered and received this document in Saeima records. So... it is also a statement that the Bureau has not delayed the transmission of that document to the Commission... as required by the Saeima order roll. And now, please, it is time for the vote. We will vote on the draft decision “On the Cabinet Order of 22 December 2020 No. 797 and 30 December 2020 Orders No. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 655 “Advertising the Emergency”! Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! For - 57, for - 3, for - 17. Decision adopted. The next item is the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the Law on Public Equity Shares and Corporate Governance (No. 549/Lp13) for the second reading until 14 January 2021.’ Please vote mode! We will vote on the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the draft law on amendments to the law on the management of shares and companies of a public person (No. 549/Lp13) for the second reading until 14 January 2021.’ Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda - draft decision “On the appointment of Natalia Asaccia as a judge of a district (city) court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U39	Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 15 December 2020, the draft decision on the appointment of Natalia Asaccia as a judge of a district (city) court was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission of the Saeima, I call on Natalia Asaju to appoint a judge of a district (city) court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U40	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the appointment of Natalia Asaccia as a judge of the district (city) court! Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The next item is the draft decision on the withdrawal of Ms Marija Golubeva, Member of the Saeima, from the Commission of European Affairs. Members Marija Golubeva, Aigars Bikše, Vita Anda Steel, Mārtiņš Bondars, Inese Voika, Dace Rukšāne–Ščipčinska, Juris Pūce, Daniels Pavļuts, Andris Skride and Mārtiņš Steins ask to withdraw their members Marija Golubeva from the European Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Ms Marija Golubeva, Member of the Saeima from the Commission of European Affairs! Please vote mode! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Members Juris Pūce, Aigars Bikše, Vita Anda Steel, Mārtiņš Bondars, Inese Voika, Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska, Daniels Pavļuts, Marija Golubeva, Andris Skride and Mārtiņš Steins have submitted a draft decision “On the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Jurs Pūce from the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Juris Pūce from the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit! Please, let's vote! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Members Marija Golubeva, Aigars Bikše, Vita Anda Steel, Mārtiņš Bondars, Inese Voika, Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska, Juris Pūce, Daniels Pavluts, Andris Skride and Mārtiņš Steins have submitted a draft decision “On the election of the Saeima Member Marija Golubeva to the Commission for Petitions”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Ms Marija Golubeva, Member of the Saeima, to the Commission of Petitions! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Members Juris Pūce, Aigars Bikše, Vita Anda Steel, Mārtiņš Bondars, Inese Voika, Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska, Daniels Pavļuts, Marija Golubeva, Andris Skride and Mārtiņš Steins have submitted a draft decision “On the election of the Saeima Member Jurs Pūce to the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission”. Please call me! I'm sorry... Yeah, I came back later... Let us start a debate. Members have applied. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U41	Hello, high-ranking head of the sitting! I wish all my colleagues a happy, peaceful and, most importantly, healthy new year! Colleagues, what I would like to say about this draft decision... This will not be a story as to whether Juris Pūce should or should not work for this committee - I will support this draft decision - but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this committee, as such, should be abolished. That is why we and our colleagues have already prepared and will present to the Saeima an initiative - and I call on other colleagues to join and support this initiative - on these commissions... the essence of the elimination, because I think from the very beginning... the reason why, in general, this commission was put forward... created, did not withstand any criticism. At the moment, when this commission is by nature... if this is the case, the most difficult draft decision has already been examined... If we look at the local government law, then... their nature in this Commission, the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission, should not be viewed; this should certainly be seen in the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government. And so are the other laws that are currently under the supervision of this committee. I do not see any reason for this commission at all to spend taxpayers' money on maintaining this commission. In future, this can be done by the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. The existence of such a commission is, in my opinion, no longer justified and unnecessary. And the smartest thing we, fellow Members, could do right now is to save public administration resources and put an end to this commission as such. One example: APC... legislation... When it went... Also... Administrative territorial reform has many accompanying laws, which are more technical than in nature... which should be corrected where... It could be an argument why such a commission should be maintained. In my opinion, all these draft laws should be put forward directly as technical draft laws through the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government or any other responsible commission (by membership) and adopted as soon as possible and to this committee... It simply makes no sense for it to exist. Colleagues, we will present this draft decision today. I invite you to discuss this, including the Bureau... put it on the agenda as soon as possible. And today, when I voted in favour of the election of Juris Pūce to this committee, I ask everyone to consider whether such a committee is still needed at the Saeima. I don't think so, and it's time... It's been a long time... to eliminate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U42	We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U43	Colleagues! I also agree that this commission can actually end its work and that the issues that remain in the Commission's possession could certainly be dealt with in other commissions. What I see, and what we actually already... probably... when Mr. Puce came to the Saeima, it's that this commission, when Pels leaves, can become the signature of Puce, and it's probably going to happen. Of course, the decision on that... Why has Juris Pūce suddenly decided to go to this commission? And how will the members of the commission vote on the candidacy of Juris Pūce as the possible chairman of the commission (in particular, I would like to mention colleagues from the coalition such as Ēriks Pucens, Arvils Aseradens, Uldis Budriķis and Jānis Dombrava)? Will these coalition colleagues really agree that the defamatory Puce has the right to hold the high-level post of head of commission only so that he does not have to regret such a great deal of failure in the position of minister (financially, of course)? That's why... I would really like to expect, now, at least some opinion from those colleagues who are likely to vote in favour of the approval of Juris Pouce as Head of Commission, especially in view of the fact that... We remember how Juris Pouces... even mandated... after approval of the mandate... As Juris Pouce's election to the Commission... how this was done and how a number of colleagues who call themselves very honest Members really opposed this, in my opinion, disgusting Member... against appointment to the relevant commissions. The quorum was demolished, and so... a number of colleagues from the UK and the National Union had, however, a claim against the fact that Puce in some way... the appointment of these posts. How will it be now? Do you really... Dear colleagues, Mr. Budrik, Mr. Dombrava... In particular, Mr. Pucen, will you really break your principles and... I don't know what you're going to promise there or what you're gonna threaten... Will you really vote in favour of the election of the Pouce as the leader? We'll see it. Of course, there will not need to be much divination here, and the committee's protocol will also be able to understand who has voted as it has. That's why... Of course, colleagues, we will see everything, but I will, of course, call on you not to approve the Puci as the chairman of the Commission. I understand that Pleis has gone and now the driver's seat is free and that after some sort of agreement you would say this place should be taken on "Developing/About!" a representative, but - will you really vote in favour of Pucis? We will see it, and the public will also see it. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U44	The debate is closed. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Juris Pūce to the Administrative Commission for Territorial Reform! Please vote mode! - 82, against - 3, refrains - not. Decision adopted. Members Juris Pūce, Aigars Bikše, Vita Anda Steel, Mārtiņš Bondars, Inese Voika, Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska, Daniels Pavļuts, Marija Golubeva, Andris Skride and Mārtiņš Steins have submitted a draft decision “On the election of the Saeima Member Jurs Pūce to the European Affairs Commission”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Juris Pūce to the European Commission for European Affairs! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The next item is the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Aigara Bikše, Daniela Pavļuta, Vitas Anda Steel, Mārtiņš Bondara, Inese Voika, Daces Rukšāne-Ščipčinska, Jura Pūces, Marija Golubeva, Andra Skrides and Mārtiņš Steinė to the Education, Culture and Science Commission. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision submitted by Aigara Bikše, Daniela Pavļuta, Vitas Anda Steel, Mārtiņš Bondara, Inese Voika, Daces Rukšāne-Ščipčinskas, Jura Pūces, Marija Golubeva, Andra Skrides and Mārtiņš Steinė “On Election of the Saeima Member Aigars Bikše in the Commission for Education, Culture and Science”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. The next item is the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Aigara Bikše, Daniela Pavluta, Vitas Anda Steel, Mārtiņš Bondara, Inese Voika, Daces Rukšāne-Ščipčinskas, Jura Pūces, Marija Golubeva, Andra Skrides and Mārtiņš Steinė to the Public Expenditure and Audit Commission. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision submitted by Aigara Bikše, Daniela Pavluta, Vitas Anda Steel, Mārtiņš Bondara, Inese Voika, Daces Rukšāne-Ščipčinskas, Jura Pūces, Marija Golubeva, Andra Skrides and Mārtiņš Steinė “On Election of the Saeima Member Aigars Bikše to the Public Expenditure and Audit Commission”! Please, let's vote! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. The next item is the examination of Members' requests. Requests received by Members. Dear colleagues, The Bureau of the Saeima has received a request from Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Karina Sprūde, Alda Gobzema, Janina Jalinska, Raimonds Bergmanis, Ulda Augulis, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Māra Kučinska, Janis Vucanas, Armands Krauze and Julija Stepanenko to the Minister of Health Ilze Viņķelis “On the inability of Covid-19 patients to treat “Remdesivir” in regions”. Under the parliamentary roll, the request has been distributed and is open to all Members. The applicants have asked for a statement of reasons. Member Viktors Valainis on behalf of the applicants. Mr. Valaiņš, you have to log in electronically in so that we can give you the floor. So Mr. Valaiņš has applied. Please! The name is Mr. Valaiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U45	Highly honored Head of the sitting! Congratulations again! So, on this request. Of course, we all had a great, great surprise when we learned that this medicine... Although this medicine has, of course, not been clearly evaluated, it is possible to treat this medicine in hospitals in Covid-19 patients... the availability of this medicinal product is very limited in the regions. Of course, the situation in Riga is very widely used, but in the regions - no, we were asked. And when we got to know this situation in more detail, we agreed that we were writing a request to the Minister for Health, because this situation is not normal... and this attitude towards regional policy... And now it's in the area of health... that you do not trust regional hospitals in the storage of this medicine and that when this medicine is needed it should be requested, you should go to Riga after it. In my opinion, this is a complete, absolutely wrong approach. And at this point the situation is crucial... I stress that there has not been a significant change. What then do we imagine in the area of health to combat this pandemic if we do not trust our fellow medical colleagues - these workers who work in hospitals where there are branches of infection? If now, as the press has said, the situation has changed... because... This medicine is stored in hospitals... Yeah, not at all, but - keeps it. However, in these hospitals, where these units of infection are available, this medicine should not be used until approved by Riga. Of course, it may already be that in Riga there is a little more experience, and that inectologists with more experience work there, but... I am talking here about the fact that, for example, Daugavpils, Liepaja, Valmiera, Ventspils, where there are these units of infection, where there is also a consortium of inectologists who make decisions... Colleagues, this is because if the use of this product is necessary in the treatment of the patient, it must still be brought into line with Riga. Colleagues, what is it about mutual trust?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The existence of such a system is, in my opinion, totally deceptive. We are asking for answers to these questions and we are calling for this issue to be dealt with right now so that there is indeed an effective treatment; so that there is no longer any mutual mistrust that exists at present and, in my opinion, is totally unnecessary in these circumstances. Let us trust hospital consoles, regional doctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U46	Thank you. The request shall be submitted to the Board of Appeal in accordance with the rule set out in the Rules of Procedure of the Saeima. Thank you. The next item is the demand... Dear colleagues, The Presidium of the Saeima has received Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Alda Gobzema, Janina Jalinska, Raimonds Bergmanis, Ulda Augulis, Dana Reiznieces–Ozolas, Māra Kučinska, Jānis Vucanas, Jūlia Stepanenko and Karina Strūre Minister for Health Ilze Viņķelis “On chaotic and contradictory information about vaccination plan in Latvia”. The request shall be distributed and made available to all Members in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Saeima. The applicants have asked for a word - motivation. Member Viktors Valainis on behalf of the applicants. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U47	Colleagues! I'm coming again... This time, on this, I think, very chaotic information in the public space... We're... At the end of the year, it was very sad to see the news that... Everyone is happy that the first vaccine has been given, but... For several days, they are kept in hospitals and do not start the vaccination process. Despite the fact that it was a Christmas period... I think it was completely wrong: not to start this work at a time when several dozen people... Even one person... on day in Latvia die... Every delay means some people die. And that, in my opinion, is absolutely unacceptable. I'm sure people... and... Also by calling the hospital representatives... people are ready to work and are ready to do this work. But now, this plan, which is still... In the public space there is such an exchange of kindness of the former Minister with the Prime Minister... I think it's completely out of place. It's the responsibility of the whole government... Despite the fact that the ministry is represented by this relevant minister, it is the responsibility of the entire government - the responsibility for this plan. And so that this plan can be clearly understood how and how... at which point each person will receive the vaccine. Now from this plan... As you read it, people working in one factory or another have no reason to know when they can finally receive the vaccine. All the more... What we're talking about here, too... with regard to this procurement, which, in our opinion, is completely illogical... How can it be that we judge something about some austerity policies, concepts... We're going to buy more, less... at a time when we are putting billions - billions, colleagues - into the economy's rescue? Billions are dedicated to economic rescue, but the purchase of vaccines is being schemed: these - more, less, less; here we have freezers, there we don't have freezers... Colleagues! This approach is absolutely wrong. To save on these things - I think it would be absolutely wrong. On the contrary, we need a clear plan of how all people who need it and who want it are vaccinated in Latvia during the six months, because we have now put only a focus on doctors. So, I think it's a huge... put a few things in place, as we say in this request. There are, for example, first-class disabled people who cannot live without the presence of other people... if they're not taken care of. These people are put in some other category. Why can't we not, at the moment, vaccinate together with the private sector, colleagues? It's a government failure... why it doesn't happen now. That is why there is also this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U48	Thank you. The request shall be submitted to the Board of Appeal in accordance with the rule set out in the Rules of Procedure of the Saeima. Thank you. The next item is the examination of draft laws. On the agenda - draft law on amendments to the Law on airbones, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Inese Voika. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U49	Hello, colleagues! See the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Ģerbonis” at third reading. No proposals were received for the third reading. I ask the Saeima to support the draft law in the third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U50	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Ģerbonis! Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the law on the administration of residential houses, third reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Regina Ločmele. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U51	Hello, fellow Members, again! The Commission of State Administration and Local Government has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Administration of Housing Houses” and prepared it for examination by the Saeima at the third reading. No proposals have been received for the third reading. I ask Members to support the draft law at final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U52	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Administration of Housing” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on Commercial mortgage law, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U53	Colleagues! The Legal Commission examined the draft law “Amendment to the Commercial Collateral Act” before the third reading. No proposal has been received for the third reading of the draft law. I ask the Saeima to support the draft law in the third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U54	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Commercial mortgage law” in the third, final, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! No, 93, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U55	Colleagues! Draft law “Amendments to the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia” is related to the previous draft law. One proposal has been received - a proposal from the Legal Bureau calling for transitional provisions on the time of entry into force of the law to be ruled out, because it was set to... was established to synchronise the entry into force of the law with another law - the Commercial Law... However, its synchronization has already taken place and the law can now enter into force in the normal way without a time limit. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U56	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U57	Consequently, all proposals for the third reading have been examined. I call on the Saeima to support this draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U58	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Thank you. It's not about - 95, it's against and abstains. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Criminal Law, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Ritvars Jansons. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U59	Hello! The Legal Commission has examined and supported for the third reading the draft law on “Amendments to the Criminal Law” (No. Lp13). The Commission received one proposal from the Minister of Justice, John Borden. 1. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. In Article 256 of the Criminal Law, the Minister proposes to apply the same penalties for sowing or growing plants containing psychotropic substances as those provided for in the law for sowing or growing narcotics. The proposal proposed by the Minister provides for the use of an addition to the word "or psychotropic" in the article after the word "drugs". Taking into account that the names of articles of the Criminal Law are exhaustive and use the link ‘and’ in the title of the article, the Legal Commission drew up its proposal, which defines the title of the article as ‘Article 256’. Unauthorised sowing and cultivation of plants containing narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances’, while the rest of the article refers to the expression “or psychotropics” proposed by the Minister. So it's 1. - The proposal of the Minister of Justice, Janis Bordan, has been partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U60	The Member agrees.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U61	2. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U62	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U63	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U64	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on criminal law. Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U65	Colleagues! Draft law “Amendments to Criminal Procedure Law” (No. 774 Lp13). The third reading received 32 proposals. Colleagues have worked hard, and I will introduce you to the work of the Commission. Many of these amendments, as reported by Prosecutor General Juris Stukāns in the Commission, concern improvement of the work of the prosecutor’s office and separation of organisational functions from the performance of procedural functions. These relate to the possibility to significantly improve the quality of pre-trial investigations and thus to ensure the effective use of the staff of the public prosecutor's office. 1. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. This applies to Article 26 of the Criminal Procedure Law on the Power to Perform Criminal Procedure. The Minister asks for it to be supplemented by the category ‘superior prosecutor’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U66	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U67	2. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. As regards Article 30, ‘Member of the Investigation Team’ is replaced by ‘Member of the Supreme Prosecutor’. It should be noted that there are further proposals to replace the words ‘superior prosecutor’ in the draft articles of law with the word ‘superior prosecutor’, thus providing that the abovementioned... The powers of the senior prosecutor will in future be transferred to the chief prosecutor. The proposers indicated that it would ensure the effectiveness of criminal proceedings, because the chief prosecutor is the official responsible for the relevant unit of the prosecutor's office... Prosecutor's Office... organisation of work, division of responsibilities. Thus, the chief prosecutor is able to participate more operationally in the specific criminal proceedings. 2. - The proposal of the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns, was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U68	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U69	3. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. According to the previous grounds, this applies to Article 37 of the law, “the prosecutor supervising the investigation” – there also replaces the words “a superior prosecutor” with the word “superior prosecutor”. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U70	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U71	4. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns, in a similar manner in Article 38, “A prosecutor as a leader of proceedings”... in the first and second subparagraphs, the words ‘a senior prosecutor’ shall be replaced by the words ‘a chief prosecutor’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U72	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U73	5. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns, which intends to supplement the law by Article 39.1... in the version which determines the duties and rights of the superior... in a relatively expanded manner. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U74	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U75	6. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It also provides for the replacement of the words “higher prosecutor” with the words “superior prosecutor”, in this case – in the second sentence of the first paragraph and in the second sentence of the second paragraph of Article 42 of the law “Maintainer of Public Indictment”. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U76	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U77	7. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns, which provides for changes to Article 45 of the law “A higher prosecutor in criminal proceedings”. This shall apply to paragraphs 1 and 2 of the second paragraph of the Article, in this version providing for liability to the prosecutor of the court district and to the prosecutor of the Prosecutor General's Office, respectively. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U78	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U79	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns, which is related to the proposals... up to proposal 13. These proposals clarify the higher rights and duties of the prosecutor... in line with the framework set out in previous proposals. In the Commission, Proposal No 8 has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U80	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U81	9. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns, which also clarifies the rights and duties of a higher prosecutor in accordance with the regulations laid down in previous proposals. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U82	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U83	Proposal No 10 clarifies the rights and duties of a higher prosecutor in a similar capacity. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U84	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U85	11. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns, which also clarifies the rights and duties of a higher prosecutor. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U86	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U87	12. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U88	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U89	13. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It also clarifies the rights and duties of a higher prosecutor. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U90	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U91	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Mr. Janis Bordāns, which in turn relates to proposals 15, 16 and 17. They specify the procedure by which self-removal from the conduct of criminal proceedings takes place, and the procedure for rejecting a decision on refusal or refusal of appeal... according to previous regulation. This proposal, 14 concerns Article 54 of the law, "Removal of Yourself from the conduct of criminal proceedings", paragraph 3 is reworded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U92	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U93	Proposal 15 related to the previous one, refers to the law... with the previous justification... concerns Article 54 of the Act, provides for its addition to point 3.1. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U94	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U95	16. - in paragraph 4 of Article 54 of the law, the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns, to replace the words “for a future senior prosecutor” with the word “superior”. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U96	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U97	17. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Mr. Janis Bordāns, which concerns Article 57 of the law, entitled ‘Application of a decision rejecting or refusing an appeal’ and specifies the procedure in accordance with the rules laid down above. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U98	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U99	18. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Mr. Janis Bordāns to replace the words “a higher prosecutor” in the first paragraph of Article 395, with the word “superior prosecutor” – in the same way as before, by stating that the powers of the prosecutor previously provided for are subsequently conferred on the chief prosecutor. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U100	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U101	19. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns, which provides for the replacement of the term “senior prosecutor” in the first part and in the second part of Section 457 of the Law on the consequences of the absence of a prosecutor” with the term “superior prosecutor”. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U102	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U103	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Janis Bordāns, Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U104	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U105	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Janis Bordāns, which concerns Article 652 of the law on the procedure for deciding on matters related to the exercise of the prosecutor’s sentence, replaces the words “higher prosecutor” with the word “superior prosecutor” in the relevant Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U106	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U107	22. - the proposal by the Minister of Justice Mr. Janis Bordāns to supplement Article 670 of the Law on "Competent Institutions for Criminal Judicial Cooperation" with the sixth paragraph, stating that the European Public Prosecutor's Office shall perform the functions of the competent authority in cases where it has been notified as a competent authority under an international agreement in accordance with the Council Regulation. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U108	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U109	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns, which intends to supplement Article 791 of the Law “Determining the Confiscation of the Execution of Assets in Latvia” with a new part – Part 2.3, which states that the executing authority informs the court and the Ministry of Justice about the result of the confiscation of the property. Currently, pursuant to Article 790, the allocation of funds resulting from the execution of an application for confiscation of property is decided by the Ministry of Justice on a case-by-case basis. The proposed information procedure, the new procedure, is necessary for the Ministry of Justice to be able to receive information directly from the executing institution about the result of the confiscation of property and to take further action regarding the distribution of funds resulting from the execution of confiscation with a foreign country or, if the confiscation of money has not been carried out, to inform the relevant foreign country. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U110	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U111	24. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U112	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U113	25. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. This is essentially the same as proposal 23 just supported, but the difference is that this proposal concerns the execution of confiscation of foreign property in Latvia, while proposal 23 concerns the execution of confiscation of property applied in a Member State of the European Union. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U114	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U115	26. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative clarification for the sake of clarity of the rule. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U116	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U117	27. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U118	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U119	28. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns, which provides for the addition of Article 863 of the Law on Storage in Latvia of the Documents, Objects and Property under Arrested, namely the addition of the second paragraph of the Section. At present, this paragraph provides that a limited period of time may be prescribed for the storage of the documents, items and property removed, taking into account the views expressed in writing by the issuing State. However, the situation in practice shows that the norm is not sufficient to address the issue of lifting arrests for property, as the issuing State does not always respond. Therefore, in practice there are cases that long-term attachment to property may result in significant restrictions on persons, abuse of the right to property, as well as proceedings within reasonable time limits. This, in turn, is in line with the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, which recognises that issues of restriction of the right to property are related to the right to a fair trial, as well as to the examination of the matter within a reasonable period of time. The relevant proposal therefore eliminates this gap by providing that the storage of the property in Latvia may be terminated if the issuing State does not give its opinion within six months from the date of the request. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U120	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U121	29. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. The Commission has partially supported and included 31. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U122	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U123	30. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This excludes the transitional provisions contained in Article 22 of the draft law, which lays down a separate article on the date of entry into force of the EU regulation, which... was on December 19th, but is not current at the moment. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U124	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U125	31. - The legal commission's proposal. Applies to criminal proceedings initiated between 20 November 2017 and the moment when... by the date of the start of operation of the European Public Prosecutor's Office... on crimes that... in accordance with the Regulation... This is in accordance with the Regulation (not to be heard) ... And it establishes that the leader of the proceedings continues these criminal proceedings in accordance with the procedure laid down by law, unless the European Public Prosecutor's Office exercises the right to take over. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U126	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U127	And the last one is 32. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Invites to exclude transitional provisions on the time of entry into force of the law, which have already been resolved by the previous proposal, and to supplement the draft law with the rule of entry into force as follows: ‘The law shall enter into force on the day following its publication’. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U128	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U129	Thus, colleagues, we have examined the draft law on “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” (No. 774 Lp13). I call for support to be given to this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U130	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”! Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Ombudsman's law, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Mr Andrejs Judine, Member. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U131	Hello, colleagues! The draft law ‘Amendments to the Ombudsman’s law’ is under consideration at third reading. Our commission set up one proposal. The proposal has a editorial nature. Please support proposal 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U132	Members support proposal 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U133	There are no other proposals. Please support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U134	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the draft law “Amendments to the Ombudsman’s Law” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! For - 87, for - no, for - 2. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, The Saeima Bureau has received a request from Member Vjačeslava Dombrovskis, Nikolaja Kabanova, Mārtiņš Bondara, Marija Golubeva and Ināra Mūrniece to amend the agenda for the sitting of the Saeima on 7 January this year and to transfer item 25 of the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Law of the Republic of Latvia” before item 30 of the agenda. We must vote on this. Please enable the procedure mode. There is no one who has applied to debate it. Please call me! Let us vote on the amendment of the agenda of the Saeima sitting by moving item 25 before item 30! Please get the result! It's not about 80, it's two, it's not. The agenda has therefore been amended. The agenda of the sitting will be examined further. The next item is the bill "Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Goods of Strategic Importance", third reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U135	Madam President, I have a very respectful sitting. Dear Members, honourable Members, The Foreign Affairs Commission worked with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Goods of Strategic Importance”. The Commission received six proposals for a third reading. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. It is of a editorial, technical nature – it is intended to replace the words “Security of the Republic of Latvia” with the words “National Security”. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U136	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U137	2. - the proposal of Minister of Defence Art Pabriks, which provides for the exclusion of the words "and re-registration" in Article 5. This would in some ways mean that companies applying for special licences have to repeat the full procedure for obtaining a licence; there is no automatic re-registration. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U138	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U139	3. - the proposal of the Foreign Affairs Commission, which is based on the proposal recommended by the Latvian Financial Industry Association, which provides for the establishment of certain criteria for companies applying for a special licence. also examine, evaluate and evaluate the true beneficiaries. It is similar to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and Proliferation... Accordingly, the merchants have a series of... not just officials... but the actual beneficiaries must also meet certain requirements laid down by law in order to be able to obtain a special licence. The relevant examination of these genuine beneficiaries is also determined in order not to create doubts as to whether the companies licensed by the Ministry of Defence have been properly tested and the access to the industry concerned by persons whose former criminality, conduct and reputation give rise to reasonable doubts as to whether the company will indeed be used solely for honest purposes and would not pose a threat to international or national security. This proposal relates to the next proposal, 4 and is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U140	Members support proposal 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U141	And, as I said, proposal 4 relates to proposal 3. In essence, it therefore determines the verification of the actual beneficiaries... also for the purpose of obtaining a special licence. In the Commission, proposal 4 has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U142	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U143	5. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks, which is editorial in nature. Former so-called ‘Minister of Defence’ of the so-called ‘Donetsk People's Republic’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U144	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U145	Finally, 6th is the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks, which relates to the transitional provisions of the existing law... with effect from... Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U146	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U147	Therefore, colleagues, we have examined all the proposals for the third reading. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U148	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Goods of Strategic Importance” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Regulated Occupations and Recognition of Professional Qualifications”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Ieva Krapāne. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U149	Good afternoon, honourable members of the Saeima Presidium! Highly honored Saeima! The Social and Labour Commission has examined and supported the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the law on the regulated professions and recognition of professional qualifications”. The Commission held a wide-ranging discussion at its meeting on the legislative articles to transpose the proportionality Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. A total of nine proposals were received for the second reading. 1. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, Reinis Znotiņš. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U150	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U151	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U152	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U153	3. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, Reinis Znotiņš. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U154	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U155	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U156	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U157	5. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, Reinis Znotiņš. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U158	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U159	6. - also the proposal by Mr Znotiņš, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science. The Commission was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U160	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U161	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U162	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U163	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U164	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U165	And nine. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U166	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U167	The Social and Labour Commission supported the draft law as a whole and invites the Saeima to adopt it at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U168	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Regulated Occupations and Recognition of Professional Qualifications”! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So at second reading, the draft law was supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U169	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading will be 4 February 2021.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U170	There are no other proposals. So the deadline for the third reading is 4 February this year. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Cultural Institutions, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Ivars Puga. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U171	Hello! ( Not to be heard.) ... Hello, colleagues! The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Cultural Institutions” is related to the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Museums”. The draft law provides for the possible legal status of new national museums as "a derived public person", while maintaining the existing framework for the activities of museums as institutions. In accordance with Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure, no proposals were submitted for second reading. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science has supported the progress of the draft law. Request to support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U172	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Cultural Institutions! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U173	Time-limit for the submission of proposals for second reading... for the third reading, one week after this day, that is, 14 January.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U174	So there are no other proposals. The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading shall be 14 January this year. Thank you. Next - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U175	Hello, dear colleagues! Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! We examine the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund” (No. 842/Lp13). This is the draft law to be examined at first reading. So this draft law has been drafted by the Ministry of Justice to facilitate the recovery of debts from non-payers of maintenance and to motivate parents to comply with the statutory obligation to provide a child with maintenance. The aim of the draft law is to impose a restriction on survivors of maintenance, to prohibit gambling and interactive gambling, as well as to participate in interactive sources. The draft law provides that operators of gambling will be obliged to identify the individual at the place where gambling is organised and to make sure that the person is not the debtor of maintenance - similar to what is currently being done for dependent persons entered in the register of self-governing persons. In turn, organisers of interactive gambling or interactive slots will be obliged to ensure that the debtor is not able to participate in interactive gambling or interactive results by using the authorised data display solution of the lottery and monitoring inspection of gambling. Dear colleagues, A small reminder of what is really happening to non-payers of maintenance in Latvia. At the moment, we have a really large number of survivors - more than 41 000 parents do not fulfil this obligation and do not pay support for their offspring. I'll remind you that two years ago... Maybe for three years this whole issue was raised very loud, because it was also prevented from obtaining maintenance... that is, continue to use the driving licence... So driving rights, and they started to apply for themselves in this maintenance fund. We are taking a step forward and taking the opportunity to literally simply snatch this money into some gambling. What else is this draft law about? For the fact that... This draft law provides for a favourable framework for the debtor to cooperate with the debtor’s debt recovery service provider, thus reducing the cost of recovering the debt, i.e. it will also be possible for the borrowers to carry out their activities and recover the money from those debtors, provided that they themselves voluntarily apply for maintenance in the non-payer’s fund and deal with the relationship specifically with that fund. As I said, there are a number of ('000) parents who do not. Thus, the draft law provides that amendments to the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund will enter into force on 1 April of this year. At its meeting on 16 December 2020, the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs examined and supported the progress of that draft law for consideration by the Saeima at first reading. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading and, of course, also for proposals to be made. ( It will already be after the vote.) Colleagues, please, support. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U176	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund”! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U177	Yes, colleagues, thank you for your support. The deadline for submission shall be 20 January this year. We will indeed very much await your proposals for this draft law in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U178	So there are no other proposals. The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 20 January this year. Colleagues! It is time for a break, but before we register, I would like to welcome on behalf of all of us the beautiful, round anniversary Members Ināra Mūrnieki, who had this anniversary shortly before the end of the year when we were on session break. So, congratulations to you very much. (Applause) Registration of Members' presence now. It's been a success. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. I would remind you that the meeting of the Council of Groupings and the Bureau is also taking place on a break. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U179	Dear colleagues, I wish health and success in the new year! We shall continue the extraordinary remote sitting on 7 January this year after the break. We are working on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Museums”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Ivars Puga. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U180	Yes, hello, colleagues, again! So let's keep going. The aim of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Museums” is to improve the governance of the state museums and to clarify the regulatory framework of the museum industry. The Education, Culture and Science Commission has examined 21 proposals for the second reading of the draft law. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Culture, Naura Puntulis. Article 1 of the draft law, which incorporates the envisaged provisions into the draft law, is to be excluded by adding Articles 7.1 and 7.2 of the Law on Museums. The Commission is supported. Request to support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U181	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U182	2. - the Minister for Culture... ( Clapo.) I'm sorry! Nura Puntuille's proposal. The Commission has partially supported and complemented 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U183	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U184	3. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Article 1(6), (7), (8) and (9) shall be excluded. The incorporation of excluded norms into the wording of Articles 7.1 and 7.2 of the draft law has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U185	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U186	4. - the proposal of the Minister of Culture, Naura Puntulis. It is envisaged to complement the law by Article 7.1, which determines the types of museums depending on the founder and the source of funding.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U187	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U188	5. - the proposal of the Minister of Culture, Naura Puntulis. It is envisaged to supplement the law by Article 7.2, which defines the activities, composition and competences of the Commission for the Stock of Museums.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U189	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U190	6. - the proposal of the Minister of Culture, Naura Puntulis. Article 2 of the draft law supported at first reading will be excluded. The Commission proposal was supported by drafting the proposed rules.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U191	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U192	7. - the proposal of the Minister of Culture, Naura Puntulis. It is envisaged to clarify in editorial terms Article 8 of the Museums Act on the procedure for the establishment, reorganisation and liquidation of public and private museums.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U193	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U194	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister of Culture, Naura Puntulis. Provision is made for Article 7.1 of the previously supported proposal to supplement the Law on Museums, including the autonomous museums... The proposal clarifies editorially the references to parts of the article of the law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U195	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U196	9. - the proposal of the Minister of Culture, Naura Puntulis. The norm is clarified in law, establishing if after re-application the museum is not accredited, the institution under whose authority the relevant museum is located shall evaluate the reasons for refusal of accreditation and take decisions on the future activities of the museum.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U197	In the Commission, I understand, there is support and Members...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U198	In the Commission, the proposal is supported, yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U199	Proposal No 10?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U200	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Culture, Naura Puntulis. The law of the museum is clarified by providing that museums have the right to set up a museum advisory board, defining the strengthening of its competences and regulations. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U201	Members are also in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U202	Thank you. 11. - the proposal of the Minister of Culture, Naura Puntulis. Article 4 of the draft law provides for the exclusion of... the addition of point 9 to the first subparagraph. The Commission is supported because the creation of a Commission on the collection of museums is a duty and not a right of the museum. The Commission is therefore in favour of this.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U203	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U204	Thank you. 12. - the proposal of the Minister of Culture, Naura Puntulis. According to Article 10, second paragraph, point 4 of the Law, after the word ‘in possession’, the word ‘(owned)’ shall be added. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U205	And Members also support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U206	13. - also the proposal of the Minister of Culture, Naura Puntulis. It is planned to supplement Section 10(2) of the Museums Act with paragraph 5 which requires the museum to set up a Commission on Museum Repositories. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U207	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U208	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Culture, Naura Puntulis. It provides for the addition of Article 11.1 of the Law on Museums to define the functions of the Director (Head) of the Museum. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U209	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U210	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Culture, Naura Puntulis. It is envisaged to clarify the wording of Section 13 (2) of the Museums Act in line with proposal 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U211	Commission support, and Members also support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U212	Thank you. 16. - the proposal of the Minister of Culture, Naura Puntulis. It is planned to supplement Section 13(7) of the Museums Law with paragraph 5 so that, in cases where the items included in the museum's main collection are, by their nature, belonging to another cultural and historical heritage institution... objects could be removed from the museum's basic stock and transferred to the institution concerned. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U213	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U214	17. - the proposal of the Minister of Culture, Naura Puntulis. It shall be provided to regulate the management of the national museum stock under national protection and to determine the duties of the museum and the treatment of the museum stock owned by the state or municipality by supplementing Article 13.2 of the law. Management and use of the national stock at a municipal museum - an association or foundation and a state museum - in a derived public person. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U215	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U216	18. - the proposal of the Minister of Culture, Naura Puntulis. Provision is made for supplementing the introductory part of Section 14(1) of the Law on Museums.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U217	Members...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U218	Yeah. The proposal is partly supported and included in proposal 19.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U219	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U220	19. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Edit the previous 18. - a proposal to supplement the introductory part of Section 14(1) of the Law on Museums by providing that municipal museums shall be financed by the relevant municipality or by several municipalities if several municipalities have established the museum. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U221	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U222	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Culture, Naura Puntulis. It is planned to clarify paragraph 1.1 of Article 14 of the Law on Museums provided for in Article 7 of the draft law, establishing the procedure for financing state museums - derived public persons and allocating state budget funds for certain functions or tasks of state administration. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U223	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U224	And 21. - also the proposal of the Minister of Culture, Naura Puntulis. It is stipulated that funds derived from paid-for services and other own revenue are credited to the museum’s general budget and are used exclusively to cover the costs associated with the provision of the service and to develop the museum’s activities. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U225	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U226	Thank you. So all the proposals have been examined. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science has supported the progress of the draft law for approval at second reading. Request to support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U227	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Museums at second reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law at second reading has been adopted. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U228	The deadline for the submission of proposals for the third reading is 30 days from today, i.e. 8 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U229	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 8 February. Thank you. We will continue to see the agenda. Draft law “Amendments to Law of the Republic of Latvia”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiniņa – Egnere. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U230	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has examined all submitted proposals for second reading in the draft law “Amendments to Law of the Republic of Latvia”. And this has also been the case for a number of sub-committee meetings on judicial policy, where all these proposals have been strayed. Now for each proposal in turn. 1. - a proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns. It shall be provided to exclude from the draft law the necessity for a lawyer whose activity has been suspended for a period exceeding five years to pass an examination of a sworn lawyer after the renewal of his activity. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U231	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U232	2. - Mr. Valeria Agešina's proposal. Identical to the previously supported proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U233	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U234	3. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is planned to establish that a sworn lawyer who performs duties at an institution of the Latvian Committee of Sworn Advocates or another institution, where the participation of a sworn lawyer is provided for by law, is not a state official. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U235	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U236	4. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is provided that a lawyer whose activities have been suspended may also participate in the general meeting of a sworn lawyer with voting rights. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U237	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U238	5. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Provision shall be made for a sworn lawyer who has been suspended from office to participate in the general meeting of sworn lawyers without the right to vote. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U239	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U240	6. - Mr. Valeria Agešina's proposal. Supported and included in proposal 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U241	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U242	7. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Provision shall be made for arrangements to be made for the convocation of general meetings of sworn lawyers, including that general meetings may also take the form of non-public meetings. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U243	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U244	Proposal No 8 - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Mr. Janis Bordens. The procedure for voting at the general meeting of sworn lawyers shall be laid down, and the voting may also be organised in a non-public form in an online system. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U245	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U246	Proposal No 9 - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Mr. Janis Bordens. Provides for clarification of legal consequences in case the elections to the Council of Sworn Advocates of Latvia have not taken place due to lack of quorum. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U247	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U248	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - John Bordan's proposal. It is planned to specify the procedure for the general meeting of sworn advocates, providing that the non-public general meeting is organised and the minutes approved by the members of the Council of Sworn Advocates of Latvia. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U249	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U250	11. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is planned to provide that sworn advocates whose activities have been suspended in connection with the presence of direct or secondary state administration institutions, derived public persons, other state institutions, or who have been suspended from carrying out the duties of sworn advocates shall not be entitled to operate in the institution of the Latvian Committee of Sworn Advocates. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U251	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U252	12. - Mr. Valeria Agešina's proposal. Partly supported, included in proposal 11.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U253	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U254	13. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is envisaged to clarify the regulation concerning the obligation to increase the qualification of a lawyer, stating that the obligation to increase the qualification also applies to lawyers whose activities have been suspended or who have been suspended. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U255	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U256	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns is of a technical nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U257	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U258	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Alsodzan is of a technical nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U259	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U260	16. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is foreseen to set a period of six months in the transitional rules for the registration of a lawyer’s office in a commercial register in order not to impose a disproportionate burden on the offices of the sworn attorneys and the Latvian Council of Sworn Advocates. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U261	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U262	And finally, the last one is 17. - Mr. Valeria Agešina's proposal. It is envisaged to clarify the transitional provisions. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U263	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U264	Consequently, all proposals have been examined and supported. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, On behalf of the Legal Commission, please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U265	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Republic of Latvia’s Bar Association” at second reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U266	On behalf of the Legal Commission, I ask for a deadline for the submission of proposals - 22 January this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U267	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 22 January this year. Thank you. We shall continue with the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U268	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Also this draft law - “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” - has been examined by the Legal Commission and directed to the Saeima sitting (A sound breakdown.) ... 62 proposals have been received. 1. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is laid down that the security is one of the forms of costs. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U269	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U270	2. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is envisaged that in future, when submitting a complaint about the conduct or decision of the insolvency administrator and the decision of the sworn notary or the bailiff, a security fee instead of a state fee is payable. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U271	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U272	3. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Associated with the previous and is of a technical nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U273	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U274	4. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Provision shall be made for grouping into one article of the law the cases in which the security is payable and for the amount of the security. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U275	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U276	5. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Provision is made for supplementing the law with a new article laying down the rules on the repayment of security. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U277	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U278	6. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Provision shall be made for supplementing the law with a new Article, which lays down the procedure for cases where court expenses or security charges have been paid into the account of the incompatible state budget. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U279	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U280	7. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Extends the existing regulation by providing that a legal person is entitled to conduct proceedings even if it is a company belonging to a group. And the company belonging to this group, with its officials or with its employees, represents another company within the group. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U281	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U282	8 / 8 - also the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Mr. Janis Bordens. It shall be laid down that the particulars to be given in the application are to be determined in addition if a decision on temporary protection against violence has been taken before the action is brought. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U283	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U284	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Provision shall be made for a terminology clarification. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U285	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U286	The same is true of 10. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Provision shall be made for a terminology clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U287	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U288	AlsoZan 11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Termological clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U289	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U290	12. - Similarly, a proposal from the Legal Office. Technically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U291	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U292	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U293	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U294	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U295	Members are also in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U296	Also 15. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U297	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U298	16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U299	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U300	And 17. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technically. It provides for alignment of the terminology provided for by the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U301	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U302	18. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Provision shall be made for the court to notify the decision on temporary protection or enforcement not earlier than the third day following that on which the decision is taken. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U303	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U304	19. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U305	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U306	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. In divorce cases, the security shall not be shared between the parties. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U307	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U308	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is envisaged that the information contained in the application for temporary protection against violence should be supplemented, namely that the applicant will need to state his attitude - or that he wishes the interim protection decision to be sent to the social service as well. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U309	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U310	22. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Technically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U311	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U312	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It provides for the introduction of a new tool for temporary protection measures against violence, i.e. a duty imposed by the court on the defendant to undergo a course of social rehabilitation to reduce their violent behaviour. In the Commission, we also discussed a great deal about this, and we considered it necessary. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U313	The debate has not applied, which means Members support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U314	Thank you. 24. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is intended to improve the procedural framework for dealing with issues of temporary protection against violence, by providing that the court or the judge may, at the request of the parties or on his own initiative (not to be heard) ... evidence or inquisitive the institution to issue opinions. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U315	Members are also in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U316	25. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is envisaged to supplement the possibilities of examining the application for temporary protection against violence by providing that the court may examine the application in writing within 20 days if the court considers it sufficient to decide on the basis of existing material. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U317	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U318	26, on the other hand. - The proposal of the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns, is partly supported, included 27. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U319	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U320	27. - The legal commission's proposal. It is provided that where the defendant is obliged to leave the common dwelling on the basis of a court order, the defendant shall be prohibited from selling or transferring the dwelling, delaying or obstructing the use of the dwelling, or deterioration of the condition of the dwelling, whether or not the defendant is the owner, holder or user of the dwelling. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U321	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U322	28. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Provision shall be made for the implementation of a decision on a social rehabilitation course to reduce violent behaviour. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U323	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U324	29. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Provision shall be made for arrangements for cooperation with social services in cases of temporary protection against violence. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U325	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U326	30. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Provision shall be made for action to be taken following a decision on temporary protection against violence where a course of social rehabilitation is appropriate as a means of temporary protection against violence to reduce violent behaviour. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U327	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U328	31. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. The aim is to ensure judicial cooperation so that material from a court which has previously dealt with applications for temporary protection against violence is brought to the court which looks further at a possible claim. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U329	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U330	32. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is expected that in the future, after a court ruling on the limitation of a person’s capacity, information about it will not be published in the notice “The Official Journal of Latvia”, but will be made available via the portal www. Latvija.lv. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U331	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U332	33. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It relates to proposal 32, which we therefore supported. It is foreseen that also the information on the judgment adopted in the framework of the review of the previously established capacity restriction is not published in the official edition of the Official Journal of Latvia. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U333	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U334	34. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Related to the proposal 32 and 33 and provides for a waiver of the publication of the judgment in the official publication “Latvijas Vēstnesis” on the limitation of the individual’s capacity. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U335	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U336	35. - a proposal from Members Uld Budrik and Gats Eglijs. Partially supported, included 37. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U337	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U338	Alsodzan 36. - a proposal from Members Uld Budrik and Gats Eglijs. Partly supported and included 37. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U339	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U340	And so 37. - The legal commission's proposal. It is envisaged that uncontested forced execution will be possible to apply to notarised or land-booked fixed-term property from rental or rental contracts which provide for the release of leased or rented property by the lessee or tenant due to the loss of his obligations or because of the lack of rental or rental. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U341	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U342	38. - The legal commission's proposal. Provision shall be made for the lessee or the owner to certify in the application that the true information has been given to the court and that the applicant is informed of the responsibility for lodging the false application. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U343	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U344	39. - The legal commission's proposal. Provision shall be made for: in the event of the use, during the term of the lease or lease agreement, of an unconditional arrangement for non-payment of the debt and, in addition, of the obligation to release the leased or rented property, a two-month period shall be fixed for the voluntary execution of the decision. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U345	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U346	40. - a proposal from Members Uld Budrik and Gats Eglijs. The Commission has partially supported and included 41. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U347	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U348	41. - The legal commission's proposal. Provision shall be made that the decision imposing the obligation of a person to dispose of the leased or rented property shall be enforceable in accordance with Chapter 74.1 of this Law. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U349	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U350	42. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Technically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U351	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U352	As well as 43. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Technically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U353	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U354	44. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Associated with the next - 45, 46 and 47. - proposals. Technically, the rules on securities are transferred from specific legal provisions to general rules. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U355	So 44. - The proposal of the Minister of Justice is supported. And Members also support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U356	Yeah. 45. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Technically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U357	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U358	46. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Technically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U359	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U360	Also 47. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Technically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U361	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U362	48. - The legal commission's proposal. It is provided that a protest against a court decision which has entered into force may be filed with the Supreme Court by the Prosecutor General if more than 10 years have not elapsed since the decision entered into force, thus making effective the exercise of functions of the prosecutor’s office. Supported by the Commission. Although it is a proposal from the Legal Commission, it is by nature submitted by the Prosecutor General. So the Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U363	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U364	49. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Related to the next proposals - 50, 51, 52 and 53. The 49th and 49th proposals provide for the alignment of the title of the article, to make the execution of the judgment recoverable. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U365	Consequently, the 49th proposal is also in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U366	50. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Provision shall be made for cases where recovery is not possible from the driver for subjective reasons. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U367	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U368	51. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It shall be provided that, in cases where there are objective reasons for failure to complete the proceedings, the costs of enforcement of the judgment shall, in so far as they have not been recovered from the debtor, be borne by the recoveror. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U369	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U370	52. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. The intention is to make sure that the truth... when the invoice drawn up by the bailiff is passed on to forced execution, taking into account the division of duties between the proposer and the debtor. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U371	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U372	53. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Provision shall be made for: where enforcement proceedings are terminated on grounds of limitation, it shall be terminated in part of the enforcement of the decision but shall continue to be subject to recovery of the costs incurred in the enforcement of this judgment. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U373	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U374	54. - The legal commission's proposal. Provision shall be made for a declaration of the obligation to execute a court ruling together with family members to release the premises of the bailiff to the debtor. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U375	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U376	55. - The legal commission's proposal. Technically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U377	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U378	Also 56. - The legal commission's proposal. Technically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U379	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U380	57. - The legal commission's proposal. It is intended to strengthen the enforcement of the decision by providing that if there is no reason to stay in the premises on the basis of a rental contract, the premises shall be released. This obligation applies to all persons on the premises. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U381	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U382	58. - The legal commission's proposal. Technically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U383	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U384	59. - also a proposal from the Legal Commission. Technically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U385	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U386	60. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It shall be stipulated that in cases where the administration of the Maintenance Guarantee Fund has taken a decision to terminate the disbursement of maintenance due to the loss of the debtor’s obligation to provide maintenance to his child each month, in such cases, the recovery of the debtor’s funds shall be directed primarily towards covering the debt created in the Fund. Once it is covered, the recovered funds start to be assigned to cover the accumulated maintenance debt of the second child’s parent. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U387	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U388	61. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partly supported and included in proposal 62. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U389	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U390	62. - The legal commission's proposal. It provides for transitional provisions that the regulation of temporary protection against violence - the obligation for the defendant to undergo a course of social rehabilitation to reduce violence - enters into force on 1 July of this year, i.e. 2021. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U391	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U392	We have examined all the proposals. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U393	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law” at second reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U394	On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for the deadline to be set at one month, i.e. 8 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2179-U395	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 8 February this year. Thank you. Dear colleagues, We have reviewed the agenda for today's second extraordinary session. There's also a record of Members. This has happened. Thank you for your work at this second meeting. Please note that in 15 minutes' time we will continue to work on today's third extraordinary meeting. Thank you.
