ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U1	Dear colleagues, We will begin to review the agenda for the second remote emergency session of the Saeima on 9 December this year. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Administrative Penalty Law on Violations in the Field of Administration, Public Order and Use of the State Language” submitted by Member Judina, Izalnieks, Štein, Čakša and Šadurska be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Andrey Judin, a Member, has signed up to speak about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U2	Good morning, colleagues! The draft law provides for administrative responsibility for aggression against a person. I think it is no secret that the issue is very topical and that there are many cases where aggression is directed at people, both on social networks and on the ground. On the one hand, we have a criminal responsibility, which includes responsibility for a gross disturbance in public peace, for persecuting a person if he or she has reason to be concerned about his or her own security. This is very good, and the rules can be applied, but on the other hand, we also have other cases where a person may not be concerned about his life, about the life of his loved ones, but in such cases, the peace of man is disturbed. We have articles, and we have a problem with applying articles, but there are cases that are not provided for. Both the criminal responsibility for hooliganism and the administrative responsibility for hooliganism impose penalties in the event of disturbance of public order, public peace, but it must be understood that it is also important to act in the event of aggression against an individual. And when we designed this composition of the offence, we were thinking about administrative responsibility. These are not cases where great harm has been caused, but leave aside, do not act, and do nothing wrong Colleagues! I call for support for the handing over of the draft law to the Legal Commission. We are going to discuss these issues next week, and I very much hope that colleagues working in the Ministry of Justice, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police will come with their proposals. It is very important to act and protect not only society as a human population, but also everyone. Please support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U3	“Pret” has applied for a speech by Member Lubova Švecova.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U4	Good morning, colleagues! I would just like to say that both the representatives of the ministries, experts and representatives of the law enforcement authorities invited during the Sub-Commission meeting of Criminal Law Policy indicated in general that the legal basis for solving problems related to aggression, aggression in social networks, verbal aggression is provided for in legislation. The issue that, in my view, fell out of the discussion is precisely about application. The problem is about what priorities the law enforcement authorities have defined, how the resources are used by the law enforcement authorities or under the authority of the Ministry of the Interior, how cooperation between the municipal police and the State police is organised, between patrol services and so on, and so on. In particular, in one of the sittings, the Ministry of Justice also reflected that in the Ministry of Justice, when talking about the problem in the legal concept and aspect, it is basically working on the examination of hate speech against minorities and evaluation of regulation and so on, and so on. It also fully coincides with the task given by the Minister for the Interior that, first and foremost, the Cybercrime Unit should deal with, say so, hateful... and hate speech... challenges and cases specifically targeted at minorities and fact-finding beyond what is possible to address other criminal offences, i.e. potentially aggressive administrative behaviour in other directions. As I see the political appearance of Members in this proposal, a political theatre that has nothing to do with solving the real and real problems, which is manifested only in the correct use of resources and in setting and effectively applying the priorities of the law enforcement authorities, with a view to achieving a concrete result, namely that there is a cross-cutting issue of how law enforcement authorities cooperate with each other, how the services of the Ministry of the Interior cooperate with the public prosecutor's office. Does the Prosecutor's Office also consider that qualifications and practices of application are in line with the prosecutor's vision of the offence and the moments of the qualification of actions. So that, colleagues, I will not personally support the political show and circus and offer the services to work directly with their ministers and to coordinate and correctly set priorities that concern society and not to devote time and resources to getting cheap political dividends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U5	Thank you to the speakers. Colleagues, so let's vote! Please call me! We will vote for handing over to the Legal Commission of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Administrative Penalty on Violations in the Fields of Administration, Public Order and Use of the State Language”, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on the Air Transport Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the State of Qatar, on the other hand, be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “On the Common Aviation Area Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part” presented by the Cabinet be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Corporate Income Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Geospatial Information” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On disposal of part of real estate in Gramzdas Street, Riga, for public needs – construction of the European standard line “Rail Baltica” in the corridor of “Rail Baltica” via Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania” be submitted to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment” be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Conduct of Penalties of Latvia” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Information Systems” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Fishing” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection” presented by Member Valaiņa, Plant, Krauze, Dūklavs and Tadar be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. So, Members have applied to speak obviously... ‘for’. So Mr. Valaiņš will talk about it. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U6	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, When it comes to this draft law, however, I would call for it to be passed on to the Commission and for a debate to begin on this issue. In this draft law, we want the Covid-19 law to impose an obligation on the government to engage in housing benefits of 30 per cent, which would also be a relaxation of municipal budgets. Currently, housing costs have risen on average by 15 percent in the country. In municipalities, these are thousands of applications - both new applications and housing benefits - and unfortunately there are very many cases where municipalities are already forced to refuse housing benefits. This will not leave the situation simpler. We think... We drafted this draft law together with the Latvian Municipal Union, and I know that the Ministry of Welfare is also aware of this issue. The solution is necessary from 2022 onwards, and not from 2023, as proposed by the next year's national budget. We, the Union of Greens/Farmers, believe that this issue must already be resolved now so that local authorities have clear conditions in the planning of the budget for next year and at the time of drawing up the budget as to whether or not the state participates in this process, and 30 per cent participation would be the absolutely minimum amount necessary to cover housing benefits. It would only be normal if we supported it and would also be involved in solving this problem. In my opinion, it must not remain just on the shoulders of municipalities, as is currently the case, taking also into account the background of municipalities: the increase in electricity and heat costs represents an additional cost of almost EUR 20 million. For municipalities this financial burden (Sound Break) ... It's worth about nine-ten million... Which, I think... to refer the draft law to the Commission and open the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U7	Thank you, colleagues. The vote is requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 Law on the Proliferation of Infectious Effects”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the Member Ģirgena, Dombrovskis, Pucena, Papule and Švecova’s draft law “Amendment to the Law on Real Estate Tax” be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Kaspars Ģirgens.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U8	Good morning, colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for your support yesterday for the proposal that families with disabilities can qualify for housing in municipalities. This is a very important step forward for these families. Today, I have tabled this proposal, which provides for a 50 per cent reduction in property tax for families with disabilities. I would like to emphasise that such a relief is already available to families with more than three children... three or more children. I believe that we should also offer such services to families with disabilities. Each of us can definitely enter the Society Integration Foundation's website and get acquainted with the certificate "Fair Family" - a program that lists the services available to families with three or more children and families with children with disabilities. My view is that we would need to offer these services on an equal footing to families with several children and families with children with disabilities. This process is also under way at the moment. Even though a discount in public transport can be taken as an example, tax discounts for car inspection and discounts for a wide range of public services. If we are talking about the real estate tax credit, then if I am not mistaken, it was introduced in 2012 for families with three or more children. In total, it was intended for more than 40,000 families, and the total cost for that moment was about 100,000 lats. At present, there are just over 8,000 families with disabilities, and these costs could be much less developed than the discount granted to families with three or more children. I therefore call for this draft law to be passed on to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission so that we can discuss what reliefs can be envisaged specifically for these families with a disabled child, and certainly also to see some additional offers for families with three or more children. I can already say thank you to many municipalities that have introduced this service. One example is Saulkrasti County, which already has a discount of about 90 percent on real estate tax for families with children with disabilities. However, our task is to achieve the same regulation throughout Latvia, in all municipalities. I invite you to refer the draft law to the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U9	The vote has been requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission to the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Real Estate Tax”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! On - 35, against - 40, refraining from - 11. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Medical Treatment” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Members have not applied for a 'yes' or 'no' but have asked for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Dear colleagues, Next on the agenda - referral of draft laws to commissions and first reading. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on the Law on Vocational Education and Training presented by the Education, Culture and Science Commission be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Let us start with this at first reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Raivis Dzintars.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U10	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, All three future draft laws, which we will see at first reading, are linked, namely the Amendments to the Law on Vocational Education, the Amendments to the Law on Education and the Amendments to the Law on Higher Education. Point 76 of the Transitional Provisions of the Law on Higher Education provides that the Cabinet of Ministers shall prepare and submit to the Saeima the necessary amendments to the Law on Higher Education, the Law on Education and the Law on Vocational Education, which shall regulate the institutional activities of colleges in the vocational education system by 31 August 2021. The Commission, looking at amendments to the Law on Vocational Education, thus opening up on typology, terms and levels of professional qualifications, also discussed which of the laws - the Law on Vocational Education or the Law on Higher Education - should include regulation of colleges. The majority of the Commission supported institutional colleges being strengthened by the Professional Education Act and this should be seen in the opening of the new Professional Education Act. That was not opposed by the members of the commission. Thus, the aim of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Vocational Education” is to clarify issues regarding the regulation of colleges, taking into account the updating of places and roles of colleges in the institutional system of Latvian education, and to strengthen them as vocational education institutions that implement short cycle higher education programmes. The project provides that issues about college as an institution will be regulated by the Law on Professional Education, while the Law on Higher Education regulates only issues about study process in college, because in future the Law on Higher Education will apply only to higher education institutions and study process. Thus, the Ministry of Education and Science submitted to the Commission a package of these draft laws, calling for them to be directed as draft laws of the Commission. It should be noted that there were objections from a number of Members within the Commission that these draft laws were not directed in a general manner through the Cabinet of Ministers. Having said this, the Commission already requested opinions of both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance on draft laws received before the meeting of the Commission. Opinions were received (the Ministry of Justice pointed out several issues to be arranged and assessed), but at the same time the committee admitted that they could be resolved with proposals for the second reading as well, and did not conceptually oppose progress of the said draft laws. Thus, the majority of the Commission decided to support this legislative package, in the specific case of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Vocational Education at first reading. So on behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U11	Thank you. So Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Vocational Education”! Please, let's vote! For - 81, for - no, for - 3. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U12	The deadline for submitting proposals is 30 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U13	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 30 December this year. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Education Act’. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on amendments to the Education Law presented by the Education, Culture and Science Commission be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been referred to the Commission for consideration at first reading. Member Raivis Dzintars is on behalf of the commission responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U14	Dear colleagues, So, as I pointed out in the report on the previous draft law, this draft law is also necessary to ensure consistency with the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Vocational Education" and the following draft law "Amendments to the Law on Higher Education". So on behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U15	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education”! Please, let's vote! For - 82, for - no, for - 3. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U16	So for this draft law, too, the Commission is asking for a deadline - 30 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U17	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 30 December this year. Next – the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on amendments to the Law on Higher Education presented by the Education, Culture and Science Commission be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Let us start with this at first reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Raivis Dzintars.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U18	So "Amendments to the Law on Higher Education" is the third draft of the legislative package, which I have already reported on in the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Vocational Education". The Commission also calls for support for these draft laws at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U19	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”! Please, let's vote! About - 80, against - no, abstaining - 3. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U20	The deadline for submitting proposals is 30 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U21	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 30 December this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Waste Management Act”. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on the Law on Waste Management presented by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission be referred to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. We started first reading of the draft law. Member of the Commission responsible: Gatis Zamur. ( Pause) Dear colleagues, I guess there's been a problem with Internet connection. Thus, on behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Krišjānis Feldmans, Chairman of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U22	Good morning, dear colleagues! Well, I must, of course, open up a little bit to the relevant documents... Consequently, the draft law “Amendment to the Waste Management Act” has been examined by the Commission. It is very simple, linked to the fact that there is a... Thus, in order to be able, for example, to deliver this packaging from a point of sale, which is actually the packaging deposited, to another transport place than the waste manager... i.e. not only a businessman holding a waste management licence. In my opinion, this is a very good bill against bureaucracy. The Commission calls for this to be recognised as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U23	Members have not applied for urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on waste management! Please, let's vote! On - 74, against - no, refraining - 2. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U24	In this respect, I would like to ask for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U25	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on waste management! Please, let's vote! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U26	In the Commission, unanimous Members agreed to ask the Saeima to support the draft law immediately at second reading, without re-examination by the committee responsible, in accordance with the parliamentary roll, if no one objected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U27	Please enable the procedure section. Are Members opposed to the second reading of the draft law without re-examination by the committee responsible? Members have no reservations. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on "Amendment to the Waste Management Act" at second, final, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision “On approval of Irena Kucinas as a judge of the Constitutional Court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U28	Dear colleagues, The draft decision “On the approval of Irena Kucins as a judge of the Constitutional Court” was reviewed at the sitting of the Legal Commission on 21 September of this year. The Constitutional Court has seven judges, and according to Article 4 of the Constitutional Court Law, the Saeima confirms judges in office. Three judges of the Constitutional Court shall be approved on the proposal of not less than ten members of the Saeima, two - on the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers, and two more - on the proposal of the Plenary Session of the Supreme Court. The term of office of a judge of the Constitutional Court shall be ten years. A new judge of the Constitutional Court should be approved because the term of office of Judge of the Constitutional Court for Sanita Osipova expired in August of this year. Ms. Osipova continues to perform the duties of a judge of the Constitutional Court and the Chairman of the Constitutional Court until the appointment of a new judge. The Cabinet of Ministers has nominated Irēna Kucina. Since 8 July 2019, Mrs Kucin is the Deputy Head of the President's Chancellery, Head of the Bureau of Advisers to the President's Office, Adviser on Justice and Legal Policy of the European Union. From 1 August 2013 until 8 July 2019, Irēna Kucina was Deputy State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice on court matters. 13 December 2016 to 8 July 2019 - Representative of the Republic of Latvia to the Court of Justice of the European Union. In 2016, she was elected Associate Professor of the Faculty of Law of the University of Latvia. Irēna Kucina has a Doctor of Law degree in international law. Mrs Kucin is the author of several scientific publications and studies. The Law “On Judicial Power” provides that the Council for the Judiciary shall give an opinion to the Saeima on candidates for the position of a judge of the Constitutional Court. The Council for the Judiciary decided to recognise the candidacy of Irena Kucina for the office of a judge of the Constitutional Court. Members of the Legal Commission listened to Irena Kucina's vision of the role and further development of the Constitutional Court. The Legal Commission found that the candidate for the position of a judge of the Constitutional Court presented to the Saeima, Irēna Kucina, met the requirements of the position of a judge of the Constitutional Court laid down by the law of the Constitutional Court. On 21 September, when eight Members voted in favour and four Members did not vote, the Commission decided to direct consideration to the Saeima of the draft decision “On the approval of Irena Kucinas as a judge of the Constitutional Court”. The final decision must be taken by the Saeima. Pursuant to Article 85 of the Satversme, judges of the Constitutional Court are approved by the Saeima by a majority of not less than 51 members of the Saeima. Therefore, on behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on you to decide on the draft decision “On the approval of Irena Kucinas as a judge of the Constitutional Court”. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U29	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. ( Pause) Colleagues, obviously the Member has problems with Internet connection. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U30	Dear colleagues, Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! I had a chance... our group had an opportunity to meet Mrs Kucin. We did it yesterday. Undoubtedly, Mrs. Kucin left the impression of a very, very highly qualified specialist, and it is also clear from her life that Mrs. Kucin has absolutely all of them... all those preconditions for becoming a judge of the Constitutional Court, for which we would not be ashamed. However, in all these discussions, we must not underscore the process of bringing forward a process that... In no way can we say that it would be in line with the principles of good governance, that it would be in line with the principles that we have been defined by this new government, the new policy, that everything should be transparent. This is not respected in this case. What's more, I'm really sorry... We also asked Mrs Kucina this question and received a very true response to the situation in which Mrs Kucin put the President of Latvia in power, Egil Levit, in my opinion, in a very unethical way, how the President of Latvia should not act when calling the Saeima Members, lobbying and even exerting pressure on the Saeima Members to decide on the appointment of Mrs Kucina. In my opinion, this is not a worthy act by the President of the State, and it throws a huge shadow on Mrs Kucin himself. That's why we called on Mrs. Kucin to resign, because that's... resign from applying for this post at all, because it throws a huge shadow on Mrs Kucin's career. We see that Mrs Kucina has not followed this call and yet is starting to be a judge of the Constitutional Court, but when assessing Mrs Kucina's professionalism and compliance with this post, we see that she could be a good judge. I will personally support him in this post. But I really wish Mrs Kucin - and that will be her greatest challenge - to get rid of the shadow of the President of Latvia and to get rid of the stain that was unfortunately created by the President of Latvia lobbying him for this post. Of course, I wish to work very carefully on the parts of the judgment and to explain the part of the judgment. We all have to respect the judgments of the Constitutional Court, but I too am very irritated personally. If I see, administrative territorial reform... Where the Constitutional Court invites a whole series of experts who all criticise administrative territorial reform (with rare exceptions), but then we read in the judgment that it was completely pointless to listen to these... because it is absolutely not assessed. And the Court itself says that it did not value economic considerations at all (A sound break.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U31	Mr. Valains...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U32	... made me think about what it looks like... Yes, please!Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U33	Mr. Valaiņš, I have to warn you that...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U34	... For the Constitutional Court, in my opinion, there is where to grow... Yes, please!Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U35	Internet connection for the moment is red, and the moment is not understandable.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U36	Thank you. I will support Mrs. Kucin, but I call on Mrs. Kucin to work on (A sound break.) ... judgments, so that they also correspond to what is written... Also, so that what judges then speak is in harmony with what is also written in the judgment itself...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U37	Thank you, thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm reminding you again that...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U38	Thank you. And I call for Mrs Kucin's candidacy to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U39	... that each Member is responsible for the quality of the Internet connection himself... who attends the Saeima sitting outside the Saeima premises. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U40	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I also met Mrs Kucin, we had invited him to our group, and it was possible to ask questions. I really believe that Mrs Kucin is an appropriate candidate for this post. Of course, with high professionalism. Undoubtedly, the shadows over everything are being thrown by the actions of our President of State. But this is also why I will support Mrs Kucin, because it is unacceptable for a man, using his dominant position, to use power and influence, regardless of what have been the objectives - to help or destroy the growth and further career of this professional - to do so. So I really support him as a woman, support him as a man who tried to destroy a man who used his office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U41	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U42	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I think nobody here has any doubt that Mrs. Kucin... This applicant, both after education and professionally, is absolutely appropriate, absolutely appropriate for this very high post. Even after meeting with Mrs Kucin, we had no questions and had full confidence. Yes, as many colleagues have already pointed out here, unfortunately this incident has left a certain shadow to the whole process. I and many others have thought that after something like this... Well, many applicants would just remove their candidacy. The fact that Irēna Kucina has not done so, I think rather testifies to her good, it shows a certain spine that I think she will benefit from this position. I also believe that Irēna Kucina will be both professionally very high added value to the Constitutional Court, as well as will ensure greater diversity of views in the Constitutional Court, from which the overall result will only be better. Thus, today I will support Irēna Kucina’s candidacy for the position of judge of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U43	Thank you. The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U44	Hello, good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Well, when we look at the professional candidates, let's say, the course of life, the CV, we can really see that a person is very competent and suitable for the position to which he is applying. However, I will touch a little on the process itself. It has already been pointed out very precisely that Irēna Kucina is being directed as a candidate for the position of a judge of the Constitutional Court. However, it turns out that the biggest lobby for this candidate has been the President of Latvia, as some of our colleagues from another group told us in the press. It is very important in this case to point out an aspect that is, in fact, rather sad at the moment - that the country... The Cabinet of Ministers, the state power, the executive power, has actually grown up together with the President of the State and is lobbying or protecting each other here, or how... A person who goes to new career challenges and is fully relevant to his job suffers. Many political groups have met Irēna Kucins and listened to him, namely, everyone has made a choice, but I also support the further progress of Irēna Kucin, regardless of the problems she has had by the President of Latvia on this road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U45	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U46	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Yes, as my colleague from the Group, Mr Valaiņš, mentioned, the Union of Greens and Farmers met Irēna Kucina, we listened to Mrs Kucina, we listened to Mrs Kucina's vision of the meaning and spirit of the Constitution, also on the substance of Articles 1 and 2 of the Satversme, and in fact on the very basis of the Constitution - that our country is an independent democratic republic and that the sovereign power of the state of Latvia belongs to the people of Latvia. I would like to mention the fact that Mrs Kucin, to some extent, voiced some of the concerns that clearly... over him was actually cast as a result of Mr. Levit's action... with this pressure on certain Members of the Saeima who have spoken. But we have been clearly assured that this has been an initiative by Mr Levit, the President of the State. In our view, she is indeed a competent candidate, with a broad view of constitutional rights, and we cannot, as a result of such self-activity by the President of the State, possibly prescribe, if it is allowed to speak, a honourable candidacy. Therefore, the majority of the Group of the Greens/Farmers Union thinks similarly, we also intend to support Ms Irēna Kucina's candidacy as a judge of the Constitutional Court... and always remember that Latvia's power belongs to the people of Latvia, that we are an independent democratic republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U47	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U48	Thank you. Colleagues! As a representative of “Latvia in the first place” I spoke with Jūlija Stepanenko Kucina and I can say that Jūlija Stepanenko highly appreciates Irēna Kucina’s professionalism, her support for Latvian citizens when they were... there were problems abroad, because there are many people who speak a lot, presenting themselves, but very few people who say... then also takes action. Irēna Kucina with her actions, defending the interests of Latvian citizens... In particular, in the Missan case, he supported all the resources and resources available to him, knowledge and legal expertise, addressing this complex legal situation across borders... I believe that it describes him not only as very high-level professional lawyers in the really highest legal aspect, but also as a person who has a heart that cares about the fate of Latvian citizens and who not only speaks, but also acts very purposefully, legally and operationally to defend the interests of Latvian citizens. It is a huge, huge plus in the eyes of the party “Latvia first place” to vote for a person who will take a very high position in the Constitutional Court. With Julia Stepanenko, we wish Mrs Kucina success, success and not lose the humanity that she has survived working in high positions and seeing power corridors and dirty games played with her, unfortunately. So that I will support the vote in favour of the approval of Mrs Kucina as a judge of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U49	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U50	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues and colleagues! Yeah, at the meeting and also getting to know autobiography... It is clear that the candidate Irena Kucina has a number of very objective positive points to support her candidacy. First. It is experience, and it is professional experience, diversity of experience. I think this is very important. Second. We've looked... and I have also followed Mrs Kucin's publications, including recently... including already living, living and working in Latvia. And the third. In the negotiations it was also proven and confirmed that Mrs Kucina really has a professional approach on very probably sensitive issues, which are currently addressed by the Constitutional Court and which will probably continue to be addressed by the Constitutional Court. This professional approach, in my opinion, is what is very often, with the appointment of an official to a high post... Well, not always has been important recently. In this case, it is certainly the strong side of Mrs. Irena Kucin. In my opinion, the aspect of personality is very important. The characteristics of Mrs Kucin (and it was also confirmed in the conversation) would be - she is a very strong personality, a professional personality and also a pleasant person, which is not insignificant, because there are too many arrogances at this time, but at least in our conversation with Ms Irēna Kucin, there was no such thing, and I think that is important. Listening to my colleagues too, I would like to say that the shadow sides mentioned by my colleagues (in their footsteps), if you may say so, will certainly be forgotten because professionalism prevails. In case of election, I wish success to a strong personality and professional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U51	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U52	Society! Hello, Members of the Saeima! ‘ Rododendra’s weekly decision to elect a judge of the Constitutional Court is decided on the President of the person who is actually led by Egils Levits, who is not respected by the people of Latvia and the society of Latvia... to a very large extent does not respect. We hear in Latvian society that there is a longing for the president of the people, a president who acts in the interests of the people and who directs the respective positions... whatever their professional competence... not those who are somehow connected with the President to set up warm and well-paid positions, but to act in the interests of the people. In today's circumstances, I personally cannot vote in favour of the approval of Irena Kucins as a judge of the Constitutional Court for one reason - because the President of our State does not enjoy trust in our country and most of society. I call on the other Members of the Saeima to open a public debate on how often the highest national positions are used to make friends, acquaintances, sponsors, loved ones or loved ones. This system must be terminated once. And this is a very symbolic moment. This is a moment that could be called a week of democracy... “Rododendra” week. This is the moment that highlights all the unlawfulness that is in Latvia, all the greed that is in Latvia, all corruption, all the arrogance that flows from power towards the people. It is time for a fundamental change. That is why this significant vote, whatever it may be, will be another point of “i” during “Rododendra” week, so that more and more people will be resurrected throughout the territory of the Republic of Latvia. Dear Members - in this remote sitting each of their warm place or the very guarded medicine of the Saeima - I invite you to leave your comfort zone and look at what is happening in Latvia, what people think they feel. See and see that the changes have begun. And these changes are inevitable. Therefore, dear Latvian nation, 13 December at the so-called President's Palace...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U53	The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U54	Hello, Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, colleagues! Hello, viewers, listeners! I too had the honour of meeting Mrs. Kucin. I really believe that she is the best representative of her profession, that she has the knowledge and that she would be a sufficiently qualified candidate for this high position. I am surprised at the moment by Development/About! silence and not taking part in these discussions, because they were the ones who opened up the trade of these officials, where two of my colleagues admitted that the President had tried to influence them in favour of Mrs Kucin's candidacy for this high position. It is regrettable that such high positions are sold in silence, through coercion, into copper. And now, with such a candidate's direction, whether it be a judge of the Constitutional Court, whether it be an Ombudsman or other high officials, who are in fact obliged to defend every Latvian citizen... anyone who is not possibly in the right political current, anyone who is not on the right side at that moment... It is regrettable to see that such processes are taking place now, in 2021, when it should be made clear that, at this difficult time of trial after another, small-scale trade in the country continues and attempts to discredit public administration even more continue. Though, where you're going! What has been done is all that is possible. I therefore call on my colleagues to reflect before the vote on all that is going on and perhaps to stop this process, and to start it again on fair terms, with candidates who would withstand this... I'm moral. I also allow Mrs Kucin to be one of the candidates who would be put forward in a fair, uncompressed manner and who should not learn from the accusations of conscience, that her ideas and professional abilities are subject to some dirty games... so that she can start this work really with the confidence that she is raised by the people and supported by Members. I call on my colleagues to reflect very much on this vote before the vote and also on Mrs Kucin... take care of Mrs. Kucin’s conscience so that she does not learn to be guilty that this work will start with such dirty methods on the part of the state’s senior officials. So once again and again, I call on my colleagues to think about it before they press the button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U55	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added or explained on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U56	I call on the Saeima to express its views by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U57	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On approval of Irena Kucinas as a judge of the Constitutional Court”! Please, let's vote! No, 71, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Congratulations to the judge of the Constitutional Court Irēna Kucins! The next item on the agenda is the "Provision of draft legislation". Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Compulsory Liability Insurance of Owners of Land Vehicles”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Cielēns.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U58	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined and prepared for consideration in the Saeima the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Compulsory Insurance of Civil Liability of Owners of Land Vehicles”. Six proposals were received to the third reading. 1. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The Commission is not supported and has set up 2. - a proposal from the Commission which distinguishes between the information necessary for the conclusion of an insurance contract and the information necessary for the notification to the insurer of the termination of the insurance contract and the possible repayment of unused premium or premium. On behalf of the Commission, I call for the 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U59	So on proposal 1 - Members agree with the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U60	2. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U61	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U62	Colleagues! I will try to explain to you a little bit the substance of all these proposals. So... It all started with the second reading when I personally presented three proposals for this draft law. Proposal 1 provided for the closure of the OCTA policy, for example, at the moment you sold your vehicle, and you have every opportunity to recover the remaining amount of money that has not been used. Proposal No 2 provided that after the car crash... which for a small period has been used, for example, for two or three years, or with a run of up to 100 thousand... after the accident it is possible to obtain an excess compensation. Proposal 3 and the proposal provided for compensation to be paid for road accidents involving forest animals through the OCTA policy. As I said earlier, we agreed together within the Commission that we will set up a working group to discuss all these proposals, prepare them correctly and move them forward. I would like to thank the representatives of the Ministry of Finance who organised this group, where it was possible for both insurers and me and the Ministry of Finance to find the best solutions together. Many of the ideas that we have discussed are in this proposal, but there are also some things that, let us say, have changed by chance in this period. So this proposal, which we all spoke together and also supported, will sound like this. So, for example, if you have sold your car, this information comes to the CSDD. In turn, CSDD sends information to the Bureau of Vehicle Insurers of Latvia, where this information is also available to insurers, and an automatic message will be sent to your phone with information that your policy is being interrupted and that you have the opportunity to recover these funds. One of the problems that suddenly appeared is that these funds can be recovered within seven days. I believe that seven days is inadequate, it would be necessary throughout the period for which this policy had been left... recover these funds, but mystically - seven days. At first, five days, but we agreed at least seven days. However, it is a good thing that there will be information that you, as a former driver, have the opportunity to recover this money. I call on everyone to make an active use of this opportunity, and let us look further at the outcome of the adoption of such a proposal by the Saeima. That is what I wanted to mention. We have also discussed the other two proposals... on the fact that the vehicle... It will be possible to receive additional funding after the accident. And the 3rd proposal on accidents involving wild animals. The emphasis will be on human health, human life, compensation for loss... Let's say, reimbursed medical expenses. The next proposals will be examined next time the law on compulsory insurance of civil liability of land vehicle owners is reopened, as clarification is still needed. But the first job has been done - as I have already mentioned, a text message will be received and I invite you to apply for this... recover your money. But the main emphasis... to which I also call on Members to pay attention: working with insurers is very difficult and difficult. There must be accusations and, let us say, disrespect, but it is probably normal, because insurers care about their money and do not want to divorce them so easily. I call for support to be given to this proposal from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, as well as to the other proposals - in line with the Commission's vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U63	Thank you. I closed the debate. The debater therefore calls for support, and Members support proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U64	3. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Related to the rewording of Article 10. The proposal was partly supported and included in the Commission4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U65	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U66	4. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Article 10, entitled ‘Exclusion of an early termination of an insurance contract’, is clarified. This was the subject of a wide-ranging debate within the Commission and a compromise was found on the number of days in which an application must be made to the policyholder in order to get back money on unused insured premiums... the premium or part thereof. In particular, a compromise has been found - seven days have been set. The proposal also provides that only the policyholder may receive the refund. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U67	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U68	5. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U69	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U70	6. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U71	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U72	All the proposals have been examined. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the third, final reading of the draft law on compulsory insurance of civil liability in respect of land-based vehicle owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U73	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third reading of the draft law “Amendment to the law on compulsory insurance of civil liability of land vehicle owners”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, Time for break - 15 minutes. The next break is scheduled from 12.30 a.m. to 13.30 p.m. I remind you that we resumed our work after 11 a.m. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U74	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! We shall continue the second remote sitting of the Saeima on 9 December 2021 after a break. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. See the draft laws “Amendments to the Pharmaceutical Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Vitaly Orlovs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U75	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Good afternoon, dear colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pharmaceuticals” (No. 1108/Lp13), third reading. Seven proposals were submitted to the third reading. All technical. Let's move on to the proposals. The proposal was drawn up by the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U76	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U77	The proposal was submitted by the Minister of Defence. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U78	And Members also support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U79	The proposal was also put forward by the Minister of Defence, Mr Pabrik. This was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U80	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U81	The proposal was also put forward by the Minister of Defence. This was partly supported and included 5. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U82	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U83	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U84	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U85	Proposal No 6 was also tabled by the Minister of Defence, Mr Pabrik. It was partly supported and included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U86	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U87	Proposal No 7 was drawn up by the commission responsible. It received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U88	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U89	On behalf of the Commission, I ask Members to support the third, final reading of the draft law amending the Pharmaceuticals Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U90	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pharmaceuticals” in the third, final, reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Legal Movement of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and Medicinal Products and Precursors”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Vitaly Orlovs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U91	Dear colleagues, This draft law is directly related to what has been examined above. Three proposals were submitted to the third reading. The proposal was drawn up by the Minister of Defence, Mr Pabrik. It was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U92	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U93	The proposal was also prepared by the Minister of Defence Mr Pabriks. It is partly supported and included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U94	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U95	The proposal was drawn up by the commission responsible. This has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U96	Members agree and support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U97	Dear colleagues, On behalf of the Commission, please support the third, final reading of the draft law on the legal circulation of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and medicinal products and precursors.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U98	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third final reading of the bill on the Law on the Legal Movement of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and Medicinal Products as well as Precursors! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Administrative Territories and Residents”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission on Territorial Reform, Member Juris Puce. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U99	Hello, very honourable chair of the sitting! Let's work with bill No. 1171/Lp13 - Amendments to the Law on Administrative Territories and Residents. The Administrative Territorial Reform Commission received 23 proposals for third reading. All of these have been examined by the Commission and prepared for the Saeima meeting. Let's start in a row. 1. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It is proposed to establish administrative areas as national development centres by introducing the new term "national development centres". The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U100	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U101	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, On this proposal, I would like to say - yes, rightly Mr Pouce said - that I would like to point out with this proposal that not only a specific place in the region is to be defined as a centre of development, but the whole region is to be defined as a centre of development. For example, when some targeted grants are granted or funding granted as such to a municipality when it is provided through the income tax method, this funding is not granted for example... One county, let's take Gulbene... This funding is not only allocated to the city of Gulben, it is allocated to the whole municipality of Gulben and, later on, the Gulben region itself decides how to allocate this funding - how much to regions, how much to channel to the centre of the municipality. But we have cities, there are regions where even a number of development centres can be formed, for example, in Tukums district, which is now part of Kandava, which is also not a minor development centre, so in my view this approach should change. Changing this approach - that the whole region is the center of development - would also help to resolve the issues that the Constitutional Court has defined for us. These proposals would, by their very nature, help to solve this problem, and we could already adopt and enforce the decision of the Constitutional Court. We shouldn't wait for 2029, we'd already say that... according to the annexation of the bill... It is this centre of development that is the whole region, and that would also be the main issue. This would solve what the Constitutional Court has criticised the Saeima. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for this proposal to support and change this approach. It would correspond more to today's reality... For example, this draft law... If you get to know Jelgava municipality's position on this matter, then Jelgava municipality has made it clear that there are three potential development centres in Jelgava municipality. These are Elijah, Kalnciema and Ozolnieki, and each of them performs a very important function in the development of the municipality. To say that there is one thing: it would be neither right nor, looking far ahead, hardly effective, because the range of services to be provided to citizens... they have a completely different population density. In this district settlement... However, it is specific. With this recording, which is now the case, every region must have a single development centre, we do not solve the problems that exist, for example, in the Saulkrasti region. With this proposal, we would resolve it. Or, for example, in Varaklani district - there is still a problem there. This proposal would, by its very nature, also tackle the problem of this municipality - the absence of development centres. In my opinion, the whole region can be a centre of development, and I also call for such an approach to be supported in this draft law. Colleagues, thank you for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U102	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Pouce... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U103	1. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U104	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Valaina's proposal! Please, let's vote! For -16, for -57, for -1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U105	2. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. Administrative territories are also foreseen to be designated as national development centres. This is similar to proposal 1. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U106	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U107	The President of the sitting. It is really similar, but it is different in nature. This proposal is very similar to that made by the Member, Mr Dombrava. We addressed the same subject, i.e. to comply with the Constitutional Court judgment, there are two versions of how to move forward. One - to save the existing municipality... the annex to this draft law and to say that there is a development centre in each region. This would solve not only the problems of Jelgava Municipality and Upper Daugsdaugava Municipality, but it would also solve problems of other municipalities that do not have them, including those that are not the subject of the draft law. But, colleagues, on this proposal... I will also touch a little on another topic that was addressed in this draft law from the Law Office and where there is a question whether it is meaningful to talk about the centre of development today, because in the judgment of the Constitutional Court, the meaning of the centres of development has been analysed. And, in essence, the only reason these development centres are is that the money of the European Union funds is shared by means of a sign - the existence or absence of a development centre. In the next programming period, the European Union's structural funds will no longer have such a criterion when it comes to allocating money. Thus, the very existence or absence of the status of the development centre in this law does not change anything in life. Therefore, this essential factor found in the judgment of the Constitutional Court is why the annexes to this draft law should be reviewed, in my opinion, does not withstand criticism, and we could do without it, because now... During the planning period 2021, this status as such has lost its meaning, and this was also demonstrated by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development in the commission responsible for us. And the legal office's considerations were not taken into account in substance. This raises the question of equality. There will be equality in all these regions, as such criteria will not be assessed in the allocation of money. Consequently, the factor referred to in the explanatory memorandum of the draft law no longer plays a significant role in the further examination of the draft law. Dear colleagues, I call on you to support this proposal, which will actually fulfil the task assigned by the Constitutional Court to the Saeima... to perform very accurately - the way the Constitutional Court wishes to do so. This proposal is also linked to other proposals... but to think about and understand the fact that currently the Saeima makes a mistake and the Constitutional Court has made a mistake in a way, because it was based on facts, data, which was the approach of the 2014-2020 programming period - so the approach of the 2014-2020 programming period, where it really was important, whether this region has the status of the centre of development or not. Next... In the future, there will be virtually no such meaning, so such an entry in the claim that each region must be a development center does not, by its very nature, create any added value, it is simply an empty entry. In my opinion, this should be taken into account when making decisions which, by their nature,... it was only started to be discussed at third reading, even before the draft law was adopted at final reading. Colleagues, I call for this to be taken into account and for my proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U108	I closed the debate. Mr. Pouce, please, on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U109	2. - Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U110	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Valaina's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 15, for - 60, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U111	3. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. Associated with the following - 4 and 5. - proposals to remove from the Law on Administrative Areas and Populations the provision for the establishment of administrative regions, and successive proposals 4 and 5 - also to remove the task for the government to draft and submit these draft regional laws. At second reading, we supported the proposal - the Saeima as a whole and also the Commission - to move the deadline of one year forward for the creation of administrative regions. Viktor Valainis has called for the complete abandonment of the creation of the regions. 3. the Commission did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U112	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U113	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, I would like to remind one of our parliamentary colleagues, Andris Zazinovskis, who, in my opinion, was one of the most ardent supporters of this idea, but of course he was not the only one; there were other Members who stood up for this idea at regional level. And when we looked at the administrative law on territorial reform, I would tell you, colleagues... I think for many... I told you, and I also showed you at what levels in the European Union... When it comes to the European Union, municipalities are managed. We will certainly be one of the unique countries... It would be difficult for me to name another country where there is only one-level model of municipal governance. I think that with this approach, which we have now been approved by law, we have, in a way, lost the meaning and nature of the municipality, but by keeping this entry in the law that we will have these planning regions... In my opinion, it is unnecessary, and in a way it was also confirmed by the commission responsible for the MoEPRD, telling us that all kinds of work is going on, named a number of levels where work is being done on this issue, but the most important level, therefore, the analysis of functions and the audit of functions, unfortunately failed. Everyone can get acquainted with government documents on the agenda, where there is a piece of information on what the ministries think about this regional level. And what's sad? This is the most critical response to this regional level... Everyone can read it precisely in the fields of the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Transport, because these are the areas that have shown in essence that they do not want to change anything in the current system, that is, they want to keep everything as it is, as it has been so far. The existence of such an entry in the law requires huge administrative resources both from public administration and from various non-governmental organizations, engaging in the formation of... an analysis of these issues, but at the end of the day it has no political support. If anyone could talk about these issues, then it should be the next government, after the parliamentary elections. This government has essentially said that it is not going to address this issue, the only reason and only chance when it could have done so was in the Saeima when we were looking at the basic reform, and this should have been done at the same time as the major reform. Otherwise, we can return to the Administrative Territories and settlements in the previous version of the law. 2009 reform: there was exactly the same entry in the law - that counties would be created in 2013 and the law already laid down very detailed what they would do, what they would do, what they would do, but they came in 2013, and unfortunately nothing was created. And so that record stood for another seven years. In my opinion, the existence of this record in the law will lead to exactly the same thing as the counties. After that, everyone bowed, took care, the ministries worked... I've been working on the record, there's a record, but now there's something like doing it, so I don't do it, I'm showing you the Saeima, I'm right why I can't introduce it. They are totally unnecessary actions, the unnecessary cutting of the administrative apparatus, and as a result no one gets anything. If there is such a determination, it must be a common understanding of the whole coalition, a common understanding of the whole government that we are going to it and we are doing it; it must be clearly recorded at that time in the government declaration. Governments, ministerial documents show that there is no determination to do something about the substance at the moment. So such an entry is empty, it simply shows such a political hypocrisy that, you see, we have a record that there will be planning regions, but no one is actually even going to do anything, but, on the contrary, is working in the opposite direction, so that there is nothing. I think it's better that this kind of recording doesn't even have a law at all. We do not think about it, let municipalities work, create new municipalities, but we are talking about planning regions after the Saeima elections! Colleagues, I call for support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U114	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U115	Also 3. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U116	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Member Valaina's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 56, for - 19, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U117	4. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. This is related to the previous proposal, proposal 3. It concerns transitional provisions, including the exclusion of rules on the creation of administrative regions. In the Commission this proposal was not supported, but since the majority of the Saeima has just decided to support proposal 3, proposal 4 should be voted in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U118	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U119	Colleagues! Thank you very much for your support for proposal 3. I also call for this proposal to be supported. This is linked to proposal 3. And I really wish this issue not to be forgotten, but to return to it by the very nature of the next government. And at this point maybe don't make this... This proposal, by its very nature, is intended not to be drafted (not to be heard) ... an administrative apparatus. In other words, when there is political will, then let us return to these issues, but it is obviously not at the moment. And it requires enormous energy to work on these issues. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported as well. And thank you for the previous vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U120	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, please, Mr Pouce... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U121	In the Commission, as I said, proposal 4 was not supported, but given that the Saeima has just voted in favour of proposal 3, proposal 4 should also be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U122	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Member Valaina's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U123	5. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. Related to previous proposals 3 and 4. This was not supported by the Commission, but since proposals 3 and 4 have been supported, proposal 5 should be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U124	Thank you. The Members in the debate have not applied but have asked for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Member Valaina's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U125	6. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. This is linked to proposals 8, 9 and 13. This does not involve the immediate unification of the municipalities supported at second reading, but a step-by-step process, which is then addressed in proposals 8 and 9. This set of proposals, which also includes proposal 6, was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U126	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U127	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Colleagues! A little bit of this proposal... Mr Puce rightly said that this can be seen both loosely and in conjunction with the other proposals that can be made (A sound break.) ... also said. However, this proposal has two natures. First of all, it's... I urge that this cooperation between municipalities... Colleagues, I call on you not to be surprised by this cooperation, perhaps it is worth allowing the municipalities to deal with the administrative challenges that exist when creating new regions. Of course, where the situation is simpler... But there are districts where six seven districts are merged into one, and then they have to work together with the national city to develop joint development plans and so on. In my opinion, it would be only right for us to give these regions the opportunity to deal with their reorganisation and, for one year, to share this cooperation with the city of the country, and only then to build further cooperation, and to carry out this cooperation in the context of this draft law, which... had been covered by this law by these cooperation mechanisms. The next approach. I think, however, that we could also look at this proposal in isolation from those next and in this... It is precisely for these regions to be able to postpone this cooperation for one year and live this year independently - the towns of the country think about their development, the surrounding regions think more about their own, this internal reorganisation, and only when they have dealt with these issues, then, in essence, start working together with other cities. Colleagues, I call for this proposal to be supported. And on the approach that is a little different with regard to this merger plan, I will then talk to the next... But this proposal is more about postponing cooperation. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U128	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U129	6. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U130	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Member Valaina's proposal! Please, let's vote! For -16, for -60, for -1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U131	7. - The Commissioner's proposal. It is intended to return to the wording of the first reading by stating that the new municipalities, which would be created by the adoption of this law, would be established already in 2025 and not in 2029, as was advocated at second reading. Mr Budrik's proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U132	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Uldis Budric. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U133	Highly honored Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! Let us look once again at the issue discussed by the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission: completing the year of the reform of national cities and neighbouring regions. The Constitutional Court has already determined and indicated the direction in which the Saeima should work, and such a joint postponement - without any great and significant justification - would be, in essence, a partial non-performance of the decision of the Constitutional Court. We could have put 2045, 2041 here as well, because the arguments why to delay are just that - no one. Instead of starting to work... What, though, is happening in nature? As I mentioned in the second reading in the debate, long-term planning documents are already being drawn up, together the volume... Planning and performance of important functions are already being implemented together. This proposal was put forward with a question that I asked the Commission: is there another argument, apart from the lack of motivation by the existing Members, because it is the last term before the so-called merger? There was silence, in a transversal sense. If this is the only argument, colleagues, now apologies, but now we throw it out, in the waste, as well as in Article 1 of the Civil Act - that duties should be carried out according to the best faith and consciousness. I am in favour of large, economically strong and above all justified regions, so I am calling for support for the proposal, because there is no justification for postponing. And it is also a partial failure to comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court, because we can delay endlessly. Therefore, yes, my fellow Members, I call for support and for a return to the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U134	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U135	Dear colleagues! Yes, it is high time that I joined the debate on the issue of administrative territories. Thank you to Uldis Budrik, who has tabled this constructive proposal, which essentially tackles two problems. The first thing is that... I would like to remind my honourable colleagues that public administration - the municipalities - is part of public administration! - however, there exist to serve a person, to serve the people and, in the case of municipalities, to the inhabitants of the territory concerned. In these changing circumstances, when the Saeima decided one at the beginning of the Saeima, then there was a judgment of the Constitutional Court and various discussions were held even after that, there was uncertainty. I am convinced that certainty should now be introduced on this matter. When Members decide on these issues, including this issue, it is necessary to take into account - as a matter of priority - the interests of the people, the interests of the people of the regions, not the personal interests of the Members concerned... that, with the participation - for example in 2025 - in the next municipal elections, competition on one Member's mandate will be greater and therefore there is a greater risk of not being re-elected. And that's why it's better... So it's practically the case, since the call for another term to be re-elected to the post of municipal member, now, at least... another term, until 2029. But thus legal certainty and citizens' interests: this is just one aspect of this issue, which is probably why Mr Budrik has tabled this very good proposal. The second issue that this proposal would address is that... In general, these amendments are necessary to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Court as such. So the fact that we have this judgment... it would make Parliament, let us say in good faith and in the best conscience of their judgments, in the right way of course, in a politically sound manner, also in the democratic process... to comply with this judgment. And that's why... Maybe after long... And I agree that it's just as good... There is now no argument why this issue should not be postponed, for example, for 2033 or 2037, 2041 or 2045. Well, I need those Members to change because... The population in the regions does not matter at all! It is necessary for these Members to change for a further period, so that less competition can take place in them so that they can scept, as they say, fear, but for the execution of a judgment of the Constitutional Court or for the interests of citizens... Well, let such a secondary question remain. Well, you can't! I don't think this is a good style of parliamentary legislation. And in this respect, I am left to ask my colleagues to support this specific proposal from Member Budrik - the 7th proposal, which... so to say that it is four years for Members to work, as well as qualitatively to prepare for the next municipal elections, to get Members' salaries, and then, in 2025, it would simply be a problem to solve, and all of them would already know what they are going to go to, including the local people... they already know what things should be addressed, what potential candidates would promise in the next municipal elections... for example, that the region will not be forgotten. This would now be of sufficient importance, and Members could then also prepare accordingly, including potential candidates. Is it really four years - it's not enough? I think four years - that is enough and it is not necessary to extend the deadline to eight years. Otherwise, we only have ten and twenty years in the country. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U136	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U137	Dear colleagues from the New Conservative Party! In this regard, I would like to mention a few things. First of all, it must be said that all this reform is an extremely huge brother. The public view of this reform is very good and has seen positive results from it? Sociological survey data show that exactly two percent of Latvian society believes that there was even less of this reform... in general, meaning. The facts show that this reform only leads to additional costs; these are the real facts that we can all get to know. What's going to happen... I mean, colleagues, next Saeima... I very much hope that the next Saeima will be what will be good for their reforms - and that it will be good on the basis of studies based on citizens' views, and only in this way will we be able to come to a solution that is in the interests of citizens. This is not the case at the moment. Now... This reform is designed to be purely political. We are currently looking at a draft law that is not based on any study; there is no study here why a merger should be carried out, why the Saeima is going this way. It is all based solely on political will. As I said, there were other directions possible, and we also offered to carry out an analysis, a study and then make a decision what... This law, by the way, has already entrusted the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development with carrying out research and analysis. And, who knows, maybe we will be in a situation that not only will there be a group of Members in the Saeima in support of Selija, but in essence will be formed the municipality of Selija, and the city of Jēkabpils will continue to operate as a state city; its city of Jēkabpils clearly wanted and was indicated in a rather large consensus in the Commission. The municipality of Selija also wanted them to be formed as the municipality of Selijah, and I saw some basis for this, but all of this was rejected. I think there's a need for research... studies, including... Talking about Liepaja or Jelgava or Daugavpils. Such decisions must be based on research, not some political sense, intuition or thinking about what's there... will be re-elected or no municipal member will be re-elected. We need to remember what that municipality is at all - the nature and meaning of the municipality. We have completely lost this right now. We can only see that all this political reform that has been carried out was nothing more than a shock to the population before the elections, politically motivated, resulting in... I think citizens have shown that they understand who are the doers who are not the doers and made their own choices. In essence, it will only create an additional administrative burden. And you can ask everyone - everyone! - the head of the municipality, irrespective of political affiliation. This represents only more and more challenges. It was unnecessary at this point. In my opinion, the municipalities have now had to deal more with the Covid-19 pandemic than with their administrative challenges in creating a single administration and so on. All that they are dealing with at the moment does not generate any financial savings; all of this - on the contrary - only leads to additional costs, colleagues. I therefore call for this proposal to be rejected and for these municipalities to be allowed to work under normal conditions, so that there is no such shock as is currently the case that the municipalities continue to work peacefully. And in a way, I too... I understand that the next Saeima will come, and I am sure that the next Saeima will already base its decisions on research - research! - and will understand that these cities have developed... how cities have been developed at all, how regions have developed... A little more than just a summary of the information from the websites of local governments and the discussion material of the Bank of Latvia, which Latvijas Banka was ashamed to call a study... The substance of the debate is on which this reform was based. And all that came from VARAM was “two plus two is four”. And that's why we're going to live better? Therefore, will life be improved in the regions? Three hundred million were taken off, regions were taken off... 300 million of the revenues of the base were removed during this government. This helps local authorities to develop in the regions? I don't think so. I therefore call for this proposal not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U138	Name to Member Janis Butan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U139	Welcome, colleagues. However, I will not agree with Viktor Valainis, the more I tend to support the idea and the saying “There will be things that will change”. I see that, during this Saeima, we're also in the traffic sector... with many different reforms to improve public administration, make it more effective to make Latvia more competitive and reduce public expenditure... And this administrative territorial reform also has a similar approach - the initiators and performers of the reform have tried to make public administration more effective and Latvia more competitive, thinking about all our country, Latvia, citizens. And I support them. And I also support this reform, despite the fact that it also contains shortcomings. Critics from the edge can always be found. There is no shortage of critics for reform of the traffic sector, nor is there a lack of critics and brakers for administrative territorial reform. And for that, I only find one explanation: wherever there's change... where there is a change in efficiency in public administration, there are always stakeholders. And this is where selfish interests are playing, and because of such selfish interests we have so far moved quite slowly in Latvia towards improving the efficiency of public administration. I therefore support the reform as such. And this proposal is exactly the same - either to execute the judgment of the Constitutional Court sooner or later, because... once again is related to selfish interests, most likely to be specific... not through the general improvement of public administration. I therefore call for support for this proposal... and not again find the reason not to do it, but to do it as quickly as possible, so that the overall standard of living of Latvian citizens would rise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U140	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U141	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, Three minutes. First. Naturally, Mr Budrik's proposal, however, is in no way related to the wish of individual Members to be reelected with less effort. Because of the reform reforms, it's a dangerous thing at all, but... Well, that's not just because of selfish interests. Second moment. The next Saeima will have all the possibilities for a peaceful, rational assessment of the progress of reforms, the first results achieved and the adoption of the... Maybe another decision. But! In this case, there is the third moment that, in my view, motivates me to support Mr Budriķi's proposal because... here is the choice, giving the answer to two questions: what is better - endless madness or crazy ending? I think it's crazy. It's better. I call for support for Mr Budrik's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U142	I closed the debate. Please! For the Commission, Mr. Pouce... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U143	Yeah. I'd like to dispel, first of all, on behalf of the commission... Perhaps the Member Valaiņa's speech gave the impression that no data or studies were available to the Commission for the preparation of this draft law. We relied on the information that was being prepared... Ready already... originals... Administrative territories and settlement laws... from the ministry, VARAM, half... including an analysis of possible combined regions, such as those currently proposed in the draft law. Regarding the specific proposal. The Commission had a very wide-ranging debate on this and on similar proposals. Both at first reading, we debated it very widely in the Saeima... And so now... A debate is taking place at second reading, which is similar... The third reading shall be the subject of a debate similar to that of the second reading... For this reason, the Commission did not support all of this in its assessment7. - Mr. Budrik's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U144	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Member Budrik's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 36, for - 45, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U145	8 / 8 - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. This relates to proposals 6, 9 and 13, on which I have already said... This provides for a different procedure for setting up new municipalities. Preparation of the evaluation of the Cabinet of Ministers... This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U146	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U147	Colleagues! The principles of good governance also mean that we base such questions on some kind of research. More! It should be borne in mind that, when drawing up the administrative territorial reform, the parliamentary commission decided that such studies and analyses should necessarily be present. And we also have a legal deadline when they will be... My proposal is that we expect these studies from the beginning, let the municipalities work; we say that there will be a merger in 2029 and that the municipalities will be... In other words, the municipal reorganisation will take place in 2029, but we do not tell you what direction this reorganisation will take. This reorganisation can take place both in terms of merger and division. Don't always think that it is a merger that is the only way of reorganisation! I think it's time and... I did not mention Selija, nor did I mention Jēkabpils; I think these areas... there is a high likelihood that they could be one of those that will show that, however, by working alone, the municipality is able to develop better. And that it is good for the city itself, and for the adjacent region. And that will be a comparison. In a situation where these data will be comparable, we will be able to compare regions that operate separately from the country city and those that work together. We have that unique opportunity. And that's exactly what the question should be... go ahead. But now you tell me that... What the law says... that in 2029 there will be a merger of territories - I think it is not right, because it is in a way... Whatever the case, this gives rise to uncertainty, causes confusion in these specific municipalities to which it relates, and it would be best for us not to mention in the name of which territories will be merged and which will not be merged. The best thing to do is... and that is also the main meaning and nature of these proposals... We say that in 2029 there will be a reorganisation based on research based on facts. And here I really cannot agree with Mr Pouce. I strongly doubt every one of this research. In my view, these were no studies on which this reform was based. These were not socio-economic studies; this was pointed out by a whole range of municipalities, presenting questions which had absolutely no answers. And now the municipalities have left a kind of... It has left its own strength to deal with all the misunderstandings that have been allowed in the reform of local governments, quite simply by mapping the map. They were just extracts from the websites of the municipalities themselves, saying: there is one high school in this municipality, two in it, and if we unite them, they'll have three together. What exactly does such a conclusion help us? They also brought together these budgets: there are ten million in one, and there are fifteen in the other, and there will be twenty-five million in total. Now this is the way in which this reform is built. What exactly does this data analysis provide? Colleagues, it would be the same as today to say that we will unite the Constitutional Court with another court and this court will have a larger budget, and they will be able to see things better. Does that sound reasonable? Not really. But, in the context of administrative territorial reform, calmly all this went ahead. We do not consider the substance, we see that two plus two is four, and we try to say that two plus two together will be ten. Colleagues, research... if there were studies here... There were no studies here. The studies were carried out but were not taken into account at all in the course of the examination of the reform. These were done both by Mr. Miglava, Mr. Skiņķis, to whom no one paid, who himself did so, and by all respect to these researchers, professors, for their work! But in this case... Colleagues, I would call for this proposal to be supported. Its main meaning is a decision based on research, including... Putting a violent and Saulkrasti issue inside... And then when these studies will be, let's also see what to do with these municipalities and territories, because in the end we can come to the conclusion that perhaps it is better to create such regions as Saulkrasti novads. No one knows that, we will only be able to see this when there is real data, when they are objective. I call for support for proposal 8. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U148	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U149	In the Commission8. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U150	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - Member Valaina's proposal! Please, let's vote! 15, 63, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U151	9. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. This is linked to the previous proposal - the 8th, it determines the follow-up to the assessment of the Cabinet of Ministers provided for in the previous proposal. This proposal was not supported by the Commission either.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U152	And Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U153	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Proposal from Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Gata Zamura. It is identical with the next one - 11. - a proposal from Members Pouce, Asheraden, Budrik and John Dombrava. This involves moving the deadline... on the far-reaching future of the Varakļāni District... from 1 January of the following year to 1 January of 2023. This is linked to the current process, which is for a possible decision to be taken... on the Varakļāni District... the government and coalition as a whole. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U154	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Long Schuplinsk. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U155	Hello! Lobby dyna! Oh, my God! In fact, I would like to speak not only on this proposal, but on the draft law as a whole. I'll focus on three things. First. Already several colleagues indicated that in fact amendments to the Law on Administrative Territories and Residents were necessary precisely because there was a judgment of the Constitutional Court. And the first thing we see is that the most important issues related to the decision of the Constitutional Court are not resolved at this point in substance, but are simply transferred in time. And there I absolutely agree... Yes, I have to say, Mr. Budrik's proposal... that there is no justification for moving the national cities and districts together, but also on this particular issue, where... we see that it is difficult to make a decision simply because different opinions are being expressed. And, of course, every decision on administrative territorial reform is difficult because it concerns the interests of certain citizens. At the same time, the argument of Mr. Valaiņš, who... all the time talking about the fact that administrative territorial reform is absolutely without any benefit and that only two percent of it is in principle supported. In fact, if we look at both this common development and the current statistics, we see that the population in rural areas has fallen sharply. And also at the time when this process of school optimisation took place, it was possible to see that more than 60 percent of the population supported the fact that there are strong municipalities in Latvia with both sufficient resources and... Above all, human capital resources. And if we are talking about the proposal in question, then it is not understandable here too, first of all, the position of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development (it had to prepare these scenarios and... which have not been tabled, and it is only at third reading that there is a general mention of the Varaklani issue, and in general Parliament's work... And probably... looking at what really research is already based on, you can see that... all the current policy is based on postponement, I would say, also such a pronunciation... with a possible research- and argument-based policy, because... We already see that, in principle, not only the law of the historical states of Latvia, which at this moment reinforces the position that changing the administrative territorial boundaries must respect this historical membership, but also certain economic positions indicate what the optimal solution would be at this point. I mean, if we look... VARAM itself points out that until the administrative reform, 14 percent of the population of Varakļāni Municipality worked in Rēzekne municipality and only three percent in Madona municipality, which... is one of the options. If we look at the issue of accessibility and logistics, then we see that the Rīga-Rēzekne highway (with a commitment to build it also as a high-speed highway) is definitely more favourable for many transactions, because the distance to Rezekne is less than the distance to Madona. And it's also a commemoration of the special economic zone... Latgale side... speak of good economic factors. But probably the most painful thing is the third aspect - this is really... I would say that the second draft law does not, in principle, look at or prevent a review of the Soviet heritage. As a laughter, the second is the law of the Holy Peter Church... I would very much like to think that the Members of the Saeima do not really only think about re-election and do not delay the examination of draft laws for this very reason alone, so I, too, this time turn to the Members of the Saeima and ask them to consider postponing these decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U156	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U157	I will ask Mrs Šuplinska to answer, perhaps, to her own question as to how exactly this reform will improve their situation so that citizens do not come from the regions in the future. How exactly will this reform solve the issue of the strength of the municipality and the adequacy of resources? Remember... Only in the background... that 300 million - over 300 million! - removed from the regions at the moment, during this government. And if we're talking about research, it's one important thing. The international commitments of Latvia, the European Charter of Local Authorities, which has been ratified in Latvian law, are equally important; we have not removed it from Latvian law. And there are also several things that have been mentioned... And the most important thing is the opinion of the people. And also on this issue of Varaklans, citizens' views are extremely important. They have clearly expressed their position - those who live there, to whom day-to-day... Their daily life is covered by this question, not perhaps by those who like to talk about the Varaklani issue. I think during this parliamentary term... this proposal - to postpone this matter - is the only one (one!) real, possible, because quite simply hope for an objective decision of the Saeima... Indeed, I do not think it is possible to hope for this. This decision should, in my opinion, be in the primary interest of the citizens - with the idea that we remember what the meaning and nature of the municipality in general are. If we do this, too, to the next Saeima, it would be only right, and then it would be possible for political parties to pass through the electoral cycle, position... and also understand what voters think about this issue. Because at the moment, it would be difficult for me to imagine and name even one political party that, starting with this parliamentary election, would have spoken to the voters about such a matter... that it could be on the political agenda at all. I think that's... I strongly doubt that something like this has happened. Therefore, colleagues, I call on this proposal to support and understand that... Well, one example. Mrs Šuplinsk, you mentioned the reform of the school network. We had the opportunity for an Administrative Territorial Reform Commission on this issue... assess each municipality individually, look at each individual and listen to the measured opinion on the plans for the reorganisation of the schools in the area. And definitely... I have full confidence that these approved plans... local authorities told... municipal reform in no way - absolutely in no way! - the future implementation of these plans will not be affected. Absolutely in no way! Maybe, with some exceptions, - in a very small way... But in principle, school reorganisation plans live their lives, go their way. This has nothing to do with administrative territorial reform. At the moment, these reforms, so to say, the initiators have the desire and hope that maybe municipalities will unite and then accept these plans for reducing the number of schools; the initiators of these reforms refer to various international studies that see, in one municipality, one strong secondary school with how many of those students are there... It would in essence mean closing more than half of Latvian secondary schools. It won't happen. And we will do our utmost to keep such crazy ideas out of daylight. I think now the municipalities are moving according to their plans... and thank God that it happens, that they are moving according to the plans they had at first, with very little change. But in essence, these things have nothing to do with... And then I think it could in some way reduce the evasiveness of the population from the territory?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. On the contrary, this reform increases expenditure and will contribute to the outflow of the population. We will have to think very seriously - regional programmes, support programmes, not just those that the government is now offering after a bunch of days, removing 300 million and then returning 50 back, while still removing roads... what is due, according to the law, without giving. Colleagues! With regional development, there are huge problems now. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U158	The name for Member Ilga Suplinsk for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U159	Yeah, thank you. I will reflect on what Mr. Valaiņš said. In 2008, I took part in a huge study (at that time the largest in Europe) on the linguistic landscape and belonging... In Latgale Region. Population 350 thousand, at this moment – 177 thousand. Mr. Valains! I think just mentioning this one fact definitely speaks for the fact that... It's impossible to close half of the schools, because it's half... in principle... the population has left. And we also know very well that an ageing population is one of the most pressing problems. And, of course, keeping up with the building is certainly much more "value" than providing quality and accessible education for children. And the other thing I will definitely mention is that it's definitely a duality. And that's not taking the political responsibility of the Saeima. These administrative regions were vital for the development of each of the regions. It is you who have proposed the removal of this issue. Yes, I will say right away, and I also do not have the hope that a delay of two years could lead to the quality of this issue... development, because I believe that this was also a deliberate delay. But for certain functions... and, among other things, directly to the education... it would be as fateful as possible. And the fact that citizens can make a decision - yes, probably. At the same time, the whole world is showing and showing that urbanisation processes cannot be halted and that digitalisation is, in principle, very important at this point in time. And it is very important to ensure access to social services, but not so much - to keep every building of the Soviet era... and, I must say, a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U160	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U161	Colleagues! Now I'm also... Well, in the border of Belarus. Here, speaking to the local population, I have repeatedly been convinced that the issue of small schools is vitally important. We can, of course, shut them down one day, listening to these "extreme thinkers" that these schools are going to be hard, but no one can give the answer - where are those children going to live, where to learn? Are they leaving this - border area? These challenges remain. And you know better than me, Mrs. Suplinsk. In a way, too, you have come to the point that there must be a solution, but... When it comes to regional level, it is rather cascosis. Here it appears. You're talking about it, you're talking about it in words, but when we get to work... It is the Ministry of Education and Science, which you run... You were, in my opinion, then the Minister... you have, in principle, expressed an absolutely rebuttal position with regard to these planning regions - the second that expressed such a position was the Ministry of Transport - by essentially destroying the idea already at the root. The government itself and these two ministries, not anyone else (A sound break.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U162	Mr. Valains, we're gone.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U163	Two ministries were concerned about the main functions that could be delegated to regional level, and that is precisely these two ministries (Sound Break.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U164	Unfortunately, Internet connections are not good. We are continuing the debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U165	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! At this point... of course, if the discussion mentions the subjects of education and the network of schools, then... I think it's right now... and I have been to almost all the newly created regions of Latvia, talking about the school network, talking to local government leaders and also to the education committee... It is clear to Members that in most of the... On the territory of Latvia, the number of schools... the school network has reached optimal size, because in most... Currently the maintenance costs of municipal schools and the transportation of pupils... there is no longer the same cost; the transport of pupils is even more expensive than the maintenance of schools when it comes to buildings. And that means that in most of the... On the territory of Latvia, the school network has reached the optimal level... optimal number. But the story is probably not about it, because the co-situation has introduced a number of adjustments, including adjustments for the carriage of pupils, which is probably not quite... epidemiologically best way. So... The use of new technologies, including digitisation, means that no longer... has not determined that it is important to see how many school buildings we have but, on the contrary, determines how many students have access to this education, with particular emphasis on digital accessibility. It is possible that Members, when talking about matters of the Law on Administrative Territories and settlements, have forgotten the promise that access to the Internet - not through air, but also through an optical network - should be provided to all students in schools and, I think, also at home, because remote learning will not end today, it is likely that it will continue. Perhaps it should be recalled if Mr. Valaiņš is now at the border on the Belarusian side... then, on the Bauska side, and in the city itself - to some extent, it is also the border side - there is still no high-quality Internet access. This means that pupils in schools, small schools and at home are not always able to connect... education at a distance. So students are denied access to education. It seems that this time, when discussing buildings, especially school buildings, is not the right place, because there has been a great deal of change in education, and I would urge you not to talk, including politicians in the Ministry of Education and Science, about the school network, because even after regional reform, municipalities are dealing with this issue, and it is only up to them to determine how much education is available, but it is not entirely up to them to ensure... It is probably the task of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development - to ensure access to education digitally, including remotely. It seems that this should be discussed if we look at education, and the local authorities are talking about it... Latvian Local Government Union and local governments as well. Please talk about it, but not about the availability or unavailability of school networks and buildings. The new trends in education no longer look at whether education is available only in buildings, but for Latvia, unfortunately, it is also a question of whether distance learning can take place qualitatively, plus - generally available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U166	I closed the debate. Mr Pouce's request to remind Members of 10. - Proposal from Parliamentary Secretary Zamur, Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U167	Yes, thank you, the chairman of the sitting. I wanted to say that this was a very, of course, binding debate, but the proposal made by Parliamentary Secretary Zamur is neither on digital learning, on administrative regions, on the school network, nor on whether and during what period we will be liquidating the Soviet heritage. The proposal provides for the transfer of the deadline to the Cabinet of Ministers on... The moment when the Cabinet of Ministers has to submit a proposal to the Saeima on the future of Varakļāni Municipality. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U168	And the Members have debated. There is no vote... requested. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Zamura! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U169	11. - a proposal from Members Pouce, Asheraden, Budrik and Dombrava. This is identical to proposal 10. The Commission was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U170	Yes, and in fact not to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U171	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This clarifies the announcement of the 2025 municipal elections in relation to the decisions taken at second reading. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U172	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U173	13. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. Clarifying the framework for transitional provisions in relation to the procedures set out in proposals 6, 8 and 9. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U174	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U175	Next, there are proposals from Member Viktoras Valaiņš from 14 to 23. Everyone intends to actually restore the situation before the second and first reading versions, namely to maintain five national cities and five municipalities in fixed areas. 14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It provides for the maintenance of Daugavpils state town. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U176	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate, but a vote has been requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - Member Valaina's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 15, for - 61, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U177	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It is intended to preserve the city of Jelgava. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U178	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U179	16. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It is planned to preserve the city of Liepaja. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U180	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - Member Valaina's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 12, for - 59, for - 2. Proposal 16 is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U181	17. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It is planned to maintain the city of Rezekne. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U182	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - Member Valaina's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 12, for - 58, for - 1. Proposal 17 is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U183	18. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It is planned to maintain Ventspils state city municipality. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U184	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. - Member Valaina's proposal! Please, let's vote! About - 12, against - 58, abstaining - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U185	19. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It is planned to establish a municipality of Daugavpils in the territory of the existing district of Upperdaugava. The proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U186	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - Member Valaina's proposal! Please, let's vote! For -11, for -59, for -1. 19) is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U187	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It is planned to maintain the municipality of Jelgava in the existing territory. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U188	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 20. - Member Valaina's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 12, for - 58, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U189	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It is planned to maintain the Southern Kurzeme Municipality in the existing municipality area. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U190	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 21. - Member Valaina's proposal! Please, let's vote! For -13, for -54, for -2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U191	22. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It is planned to maintain the municipality in Rēzekne municipality’s existing territory. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U192	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 22. - Member Valaina's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U193	Finally, 23 - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It is planned to maintain Ventspils Municipality in the existing territory of the municipality. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U194	Please call me! I'm sorry. Discussion Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U195	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I wanted to remind my colleagues once again of this proposal and ask them to think about whether we have this draft law... adopting this law and telling us that it is in essence a solution to the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Court, we achieve justice in essence and whether it is what these municipalities wanted when going to the Constitutional Court. Either the Municipality of Ozolnieki or the Municipality of Ilūkste, which went with the application to the Constitutional Court - or that was what they wanted. Moreover, this proposal deals with the municipality of Ventspils, which is not affected at all by this draft law. Was that the wish of these people, for whom they fought in the course of going to the Constitutional Court, that is, defending their rights, arguing in the Constitutional Court. I think everyone can look at the arguments that were. In a way, they win, the Constitutional Court recognised that the decision was not correct, but at the end of the day, if you ask yourself whether the decision is fair or what the residents of the municipality deserve - I think not. Overall, this draft law for victory in the Constitutional Court and hopes that however, the Saeima will listen in some way to the residents of the municipality, think about their interests as well, crossed over as with the road roller - crossing over as with the road roller! - and, in principle, built up all the good hopes that these local people, the municipal councils, once they started fighting against administrative territorial reform... In principle, all this has happened, and unfortunately, the Saeima has supported all this. The Saeima was an opportunity to go another way in accordance with the interests of the people, but this was unfortunately not used by the Saeima. I think that in these regions it will in no way promote confidence in either the Saeima or the public administration as a whole, because who asked for it. They called municipalities, called towns, asked, clearly expressed their opinion against, one more, one less, but clearly expressed their opinion, and there was no such common consensus in any region. We had two state cities that said yes, “for”. But at the end of the day, we were decided by the Saeima, absolutely without listening to them. And the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development also ignored any views expressed in these consultations. The consultations took place a few times after: well, we need to listen--hearing. People went, Members went with hope that they would be heard, and they went with hope after the elections, after they had obtained new mandates and the support of the people. At the end of the Saeima, they were not listened to, and I regret that I am sad. Colleagues, I hope that the next Saeima will listen much more to the interests of Latvian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U196	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Pouce... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U197	Proposal 23 was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U198	Please call me! We will vote in favour 23. - Member Valaina's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 12, for - 59, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U199	Consequently, all the proposals received at the third reading have been examined. The draft law referred to by the Commission was endorsed at third reading. On behalf of the Commission, I also ask the Saeima to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U200	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Administrative Territories and Accommodations” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Dear colleagues, Before going on a break, please give the floor to our fellow Member, Kaspars Girgen, for a statement. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U201	Dear colleagues, So, Members of the Group of Members for the support of patients with rare diseases, please join this sitting at the moment! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U202	Thank you. The registration of Members' presence is over. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U203	Dear colleagues, We shall continue to examine the agenda for the second remote emergency session on 9 December this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Lubova Švecova.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U204	Thank you. Colleagues! We are working on the draft law “Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act” (No. 905/Lp13), see it at third reading. The Commission has examined the proposals of the Commission itself, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commissions. It is more editorial, more precise. This is due to the fact that the amendments to this law will enter into force on 1 February 2022. The Commission supported this proposal. I ask Members to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U205	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U206	I ask the Saeima to support the draft law in the third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U207	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax" in the third, final, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 66, against and refrains. The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Military Service Law’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U208	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! In its meeting of 30 November this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Military Service Law” (No. 1096/Lp13) and prepared for third reading. Two proposals were submitted to the third reading. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. It is partly supported and included in 2. - the Commission's proposal. 2. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. This proposal deals with the activities of teachers and employees and their provision in the professional secondary school of Colonel Oskars Kalpakas. The Commission has supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U209	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U210	Consequently, all proposals in this draft law have been examined. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U211	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Military Service Law, third, final, final reading! Please, let's vote! For - 68, against and refrains - not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Veterinary Medicine”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U212	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! See the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Veterinary Medicine” (No. 1121/Lp13). No proposals were received for the third reading. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U213	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Veterinary Medicine Law” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”, third reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Aldis Adamovičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U214	Dear Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, In its meeting of 1 December, the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government examined draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”. The Commission created and supported one proposal providing for the date of entry into force of individual articles of the law (January 2023)... and also the exclusion of certain parts of the articles. The Commission is therefore in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U215	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U216	Consequently, all the proposals have been examined... for the third reading. I invite the Saeima to support the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” in the third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U217	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 71, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to criminal law’, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juris Jurash.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U218	Welcome again, honourable colleagues! The Legal Commission conceptually supported the draft law “Amendments to Criminal Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 1230/Lp13), which is viewed at the same time as the draft law “Amendment to Law on Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law” (No. 1231/Lp13). The draft law is designed to clarify the interpretation of the term ‘indirectly acquired property’ and to define ‘criminal responsibility for discrimination on grounds of racial, national, ethnic or religious origin or for any other violation of the prohibition of discrimination in connection with torture’. The draft law excludes mediation in bribery as an independent criminal offence, as well as review the scope of the qualifying signs – “significant damage” – in dispositions of articles of the Special Part of the Criminal Law. The draft law is based both on the proposals of the General Prosecutor's Office and on the recommendations of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and the UN. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U219	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on criminal law. Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U220	The deadline for submission of tenders shall be 6 January 2022.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U221	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 6 January 2022. Draft law “Amendment to law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juris Jurash.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U222	The Legal Commission conceptually supported the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”” (No. 1231/Lp13), which is reviewed at the same time as the recently examined draft law on “Amendments to the Criminal Law” (No. 1230/Lp13). The draft law is designed to explain one of the types of bribery based on the recommendation included in the Latvian Phase 2 Assessment Report of the Working Group of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development to Combat Cooking in International Business Transactions. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U223	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”” at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U224	The deadline for submitting proposals is January 6, 2022.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U225	Thank you. The deadline for proposals for this draft law, too, is 6 January 2022. Draft Act “Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Cielēns.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U226	Good afternoon! Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, At its meeting of 30 November, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” (No. 1191/Lp13) and prepared for consideration by the Saeima at first reading. The draft law is designed to implement European Union directives as well as other international commitments made by Latvia: to take over the directive on the common system of value added tax (VAT) and the general arrangements for applying excise duty in respect of protective measures; to extend the scope of application of the zero rate of value added tax to supplies of goods and services provided domestically to the armed forces of other Member States of the European Union. It makes it possible for registered VAT payers to apply a direct VAT exemption. I shall indicate the main points and blocks which concern this draft law. Application of value added tax to supplies of goods and services provided domestically to units of the armed forces of other Member States of the European Union. VAT on imports of goods by armed forces of other Member States of the European Union. Definition of goods dispatched or transported from another Member State to the internal market used for VAT purposes by the National Armed Forces of the Republic of Latvia, including accompanying civilian personnel. Editative clarifications regarding VAT on supplies of goods and services provided domestically to units of the armed forces of other NATO Member States. The draft law was unanimously supported by the Commission. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the first reading of the draft law amending the law on value added tax.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U227	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U228	The deadline for submitting proposals is five days, 14 December of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U229	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 14 December this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Deposit Guarantee Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhena‐Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U230	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima and colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law ‘Amendments to the Deposit Guarantee Act’. The draft law has been drafted taking into account the fact that the European Commission regularly carries out a full compliance and compliance check. The need for amendments stems from the European Commission's recommendations to clarify the legal provisions under Directive 2014/49/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on deposit-guarantee schemes. In the budget and financial (tax) commission, the draft law was supported for viewing at the Saeima sitting. On behalf of the Commission, I call on you to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U231	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Deposit Guarantees”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U232	The deadline for submission of tenders shall be 11 January 2022.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U233	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 11 January 2022. Draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Excise Tax”, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Ilze Indricksone.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U234	Draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Excise Tax””. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined and supported the draft law for the first reading. The nature of the draft law. Without changing any of the rates of excise duty which have been fixed in advance, the draft law provides for the continuation of the predetermined reduced rate of excise duty on natural gas used in transport but applied another form of... as a general reduction in the tax rate, rather than as previously when the aid was listed as de minimis aid. But everything else in the bill... the law is preserved... As before. The draft law was approved by the Commission for first reading. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U235	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Excise Tax” at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U236	The deadline for submitting proposals is 20 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U237	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 20 December this year. Draft law on investment firms, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhena‐Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U238	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined before the first reading a set of draft laws containing seven draft laws – “Law on investment firms”, “Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions”, “Amendments to the Law on Financial conglomerates”, “Amendments to the Law on Investment Management Companies”, “Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers”, “Amendments to the Law on the Restoration and Resolution of the Activities of Credit Institutions and Investment firms” and “Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments”. The Market for Financial Instruments Act’. The draft law on investment firms is the priority law of the package, designed to establish separate regulation for investment firms in Latvia, while at the same time taking over Directive No. No. of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019. 2019/2034 on the prudential supervision of investment firms and amending Directives 2002/87/EC, 2009/65/EC, 2011/61/EU and 2013/36/EU... as well as two remaining ones: 2014/59/EU and 2014/65/EU, as well as some of the European Parliament and Council... This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European In the Commission, the draft law was approved for the first reading of the Saeima. I therefore call on you to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U239	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading draft law on investment firms! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U240	The deadline for submission of tenders shall be 10 January 2022.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U241	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 10 January 2022. Draft Act Amending the Law on Credit Institutions, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhena‐Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U242	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! We are now looking at the next draft legislative package – Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions. It aims to bring the provisions of the Law on Credit Institutions into line with those of the draft law on investment firms in order to ensure the consistency of the legal system and to transpose Directive No. 2019/2034 The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined the draft law and supported it for its first reading at the Saeima meeting. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U243	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U244	The deadline for submission of tenders shall be 10 January 2022.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U245	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 10 January 2022. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Financial Conglomerates”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U246	Dear Chairman and colleagues of the Saeima. Let us now look at the second draft legislative package - Amendments to the Finance Conglomerates Act. The purpose of this draft law is to bring the provisions of the Finance Conglomerates Act into line with those of the draft law on investment firms in order to ensure the consistency of the legal system and to transpose Directive No. 2019/2034 The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined the draft law and supported its examination at the first reading of the Saeima sitting. I therefore call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U247	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Financial Conglomerates! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U248	The time limit for the submission of proposals shall be the same as for the previous 10 January 2022.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U249	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 10 January 2022. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Investment Management Companies”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U250	Dear Chairman and colleagues of the Saeima. Currently, we will see the third draft of the legislative package, "Amendments to the Investment Management Company Law". The purpose of this draft law is also to bring the provisions of the Law on Investment Management Companies into line with the regulations of the draft law on investment firms in order to ensure the consistency of the judicial system and to transpose Directive No. 2019/2034 This draft law, too, was examined and supported by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission for a further step - for a vote to the first reading at the Saeima sitting. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U251	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading draft law on Amendments to the Law on Investment Management Companies! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U252	As with the previous draft law, the deadline for proposals is 10 January 2022.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U253	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 10 January 2022. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers’, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhena‐Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U254	Dear Chairman and colleagues of the Saeima. We are currently looking at the fourth draft of the legislative package – “Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers”. The purpose of the draft law is to bring the provisions of the Alternative Investment Funds and their managers into line with the provisions of the draft law on investment firms in order to ensure the consistency of the legal systems and to transpose Directive No. 2019/34 (Sound interruption) ... The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission reviewed the draft law and supported further consideration at the Saeima meeting. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U255	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers! Please, let's vote! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U256	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U257	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 10 January 2022. Draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Restoration and Resolution of the Activities of Credit Institutions and Investment firms, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhena‐Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U258	Dear Chairman and colleagues of the Saeima. Let's go. See the fifth draft law of the draft package – Amendments to the law on the restoration and resolution of the activities of credit institutions and investment firms. The purpose of the draft law is to align the provisions of the law on the renewal and resolution of the activities of credit institutions and investment firms with those of the draft law on investment firms in order to ensure the consistency of the legal system and to take over Directive No. 2019/2034 As in the past, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has also examined and supported the further reading of this bill at the first reading of the Saeima. I therefore call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U259	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Restoration and Resolution of the Activities of Credit Institutions and Investment firms! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U260	The deadline for submission of tenders shall be 10 January 2022.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U261	So the deadline for proposals is 10 January 2022. And the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhena‐Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U262	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! We see the sixth draft law of the draft package - Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments. The purpose of the draft law is to bring the provisions of the Financial Instruments Market Act into line with those of the draft law on investment firms in order to ensure the consistency of the legal system and to transpose Directive No. 2019/2034 The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined the draft law and supported its further examination - the first reading of the Saeima sitting. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U263	Thank you for your report on behalf of the Commission. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments! Please, let's vote! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U264	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U265	Thank you. Thus, for this draft law, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 10 January 2022. The first reading of the draft law “On disposal of real estate in Mūkupurva Street, Riga, for public needs – construction of the European standard line “Rail Baltica” in the corridor of “Rail Baltica” through Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania”. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U266	Hello, colleagues! At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 1 December, the draft law “On disposal of real estate in Mūkupurva Street, Riga, for public needs – construction of a European standard railway line “Rail Baltica” in the corridor of “Rail Baltica” through Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania” (No. 1221/Lp13). For the implementation of the project “Construction of the European Standard Width 1435 mm railway line in the Rail Baltica corridor through Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania” it is necessary to dispose of the part of the real estate in Mūkupurva Street, Riga, in an area of 0,6144 hectares. The real estate part is disposed of for the development of infrastructure related to the construction of railway transport infrastructure and disposal is the only way to achieve this objective. According to the Land Register records, in respect of real estate, a pledge right has been registered - a reinforced mortgage, and a note has been entered on the taking of recovery. The mortgage creditor is informed about the disposal of immovable property in accordance with Section 18(1) of the Law on the disposal of immovable property necessary for the needs of the Company. Information has also been sent to the enforcer of recovery proceedings – an sworn bailiff. The amount to be recovered from the sworn bailiff and the costs related to the execution of the judgment. On the basis of Article 9 of the Law on the Expropriation of Real Estate required for the needs of the Company and Article 9 of the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation of 15 March 2011 No. Point 204, Ministry of Transport, by decision of 20 March 2020 03-14/969 confirmed the amount of fair remuneration for real estate in Mūkupurva Street, Riga, the part of the land unit - 0.6144 hectares - which is 81 285 euros or 13.23 euros per square metre. The owner has not provided an opinion on the amount of remuneration calculated. On 18 June 2020, the Cabinet of Ministers issued an order No. 327 “On the purchase of real estate on Mūkupurva Street, Riga, part of the project “Construction of the European Standard Width 1435 mm railway line on the Rail Baltica corridor through Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania”. Date of birth: (a) on (b) on (c) on (d) on (d) on (g) on (g) on (g) on (g) on (g) on (g) on (g) on (g) on (g) on (g) on (g) on (g) on (g) on (g). On 29 June 2020, the 327 acquiring company with limited liability “European railway lines” sent a notification to the owner of real estate in accordance with Article 11 of the Law on the Sale of Real Estate required for the needs of the Company with an invitation to make a declaration within thirty days from the date of receipt of the notification of the possibility to conclude a contract on the voluntary disposal of real estate and to give consent to the cadastral measurement of real estate, as well as requested to agree with the mortgage creditors on the distribution of remuneration and to carry out the necessary actions for the deletion of the registered recovery mark in the Land Register, as pursuant to subparagraph 1 of the first paragraph of Article 601 and the second paragraph of Article 600 of the Law on Civil Procedure, the enforcement mark in the Land Register contains a prohibition on the disposal of real estate and the first paragraph of Article 46 of the Law on Land Registers provides that the recovery mark prevents any voluntary reinforcement of the owner, with the exception of the marks provided for in paragraphs 6 and 7 of Article 45. The notification was accompanied by Order No. 327 prints, a copy of the decision of the Ministry of Transport and graphic material indicating the boundaries of the immovable property to be disposed of. Following that notification, a reply was received from the real estate owner on 29 July 2020 requesting an extension of the deadline for replying to the notification of the “European Railway Lines” Ltd. on 29 June 2020. A response was sent on 12 August 2020 which extended the deadline for replying until 29 August 2020. No reply was received from the owner of the real estate within the specified deadline. On 21 September 2020, the representatives of the owner of the real estate of “European railway line” Ltd. sent an electronic mail requesting information on the follow-up to the notification of “European railway line” Ltd. on 29 June 2020 regarding the possibility to conclude a purchase agreement for the voluntary disposal of the real estate. No reply was received within the deadline of 25 September 2020. On 23 October 2020, SIA “European Railway Lines” sent a notification with a renewed invitation to notify within seven days of receipt of the notification of the possibility to conclude a contract on voluntary disposal of real estate. Even after a repeated notification, the owner of the real estate has not replied. SIA “European railway lines” has met with representatives of the owner of real estate. During the meeting, the representatives informed that they did not agree with the disposal of real estate because the amount of compensation for the disposal of the part of the land unit in Mūkupurva Street, Riga, was not satisfied. Since 27 June 2019, according to Lursoft’s data in the Commercial Register, the owner of the real estate - the legal entity - has no current data about its officials, which creates obstacles to the voluntary disposal of the real estate. Taking into account that the owner of immovable property necessary for the needs of the Company has not submitted a response to the sent statements for cadastral measurement and voluntary disposal, as well as the agreement on voluntary disposal of immovable property has not been concluded, the conditions laid down in Article 13 of the Law on the disposal of immovable property necessary for the needs of the Company for consideration by the Saeima of the draft such law on forced disposal of immovable property for the needs of the company have been fulfilled. Moreover, according to the decision of the State Notary of the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia of 3 October 2019, the activities of the owner of real estate - the legal entity - have been terminated. It is therefore recognised that that legal person has lost its capacity because it is unable to acquire rights and impose obligations. The benefit that the company will gain by imposing restrictions on the fundamental rights of the owner of real estate on Mūkupurva Street, Riga, is greater than the damage caused to the individual's interests, because in this case the real estate is necessary for the achievement of specific public interests and public objectives - the construction of railway transport infrastructure, which will ensure the integration of Latvia into the European Union rail system by promoting mobility of Latvian citizens and economic development. The Legal Commission supported the draft law at first reading. I call on my colleagues to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U267	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On disposal of real estate in Mūkupurva Street, Riga, for public needs – for the first reading of the project “Construction of the European Standard Width 1435 mm railway line in the Rail Baltica corridor through Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania”! Please, let's vote! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U268	For a draft law, the deadline for the submission of proposals shall be one month, or 9 January 2022.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U269	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 9 January 2022. Draft Law on Electronic Communications, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U270	Hello, colleagues! The Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law “Electronic Communications Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 1216/Lp13). The Commission decided to support this draft law and to direct it to the Parliamentary session at first reading. The draft law was drafted by the Ministry of Transport to take over... This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The aim of the draft law is to ensure technologically neutral regulation of electronic communications networks and services, network integrity and connectivity, continuity of service provision, numbering, radio spectrum and higher domain “. lv” rational and efficient use, protection of the interests of the State, end-users and electronic communications operators and protection of end-user data; promote universal service availability. The Commission has supported the draft law. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U271	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law on electronic communications at first reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law was approved at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U272	The deadline for submission of tenders shall be 7 January 2022.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U273	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 7 January 2022. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection and Management of the Marine Environment”, first reading. Member Viesturs Liepkalns on behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U274	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined and prepared for the first reading a draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection and Management of the Marine Environment” (No. 1218/Lp13). On the bill. Taking into account that Article 1104 of the Civil Law of the Republic of Latvia provides that the sea coast belongs to the state up to the place reached by the highest waves of the sea, the purpose of this draft law is to provide a clear definition of the place, as well as to delegate to the Cabinet of Ministers a procedure for its establishment and approval. The draft law also defines the activities and areas for which licences or licences are issued by the municipality in that territory. The Commission has unanimously supported the examination of draft laws at first reading. On behalf of the Commission, I ask the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U275	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on the Protection and Management of the Marine Environment"! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U276	The deadline for submitting proposals is 16 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U277	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 16 December this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Land Management Law”, first reading. Member Viesturs Liepkalns on behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U278	Dear colleagues, The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined before the first reading the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Management” (No. 1219/Lp13). This draft law is related to the previous draft law that has just been examined. According to Section 17(6) of the Land Management Law, the units of land transferred to the reserve land fund agree to municipalities. However, there are cases where there are units of land which – according to the criteria of the law “On Land Property Rights of the State and Local Government and Strengthening them in Land Registers” – agree with the state. To solve the problem, the draft law provides for supplementing Article 17 of the Land Management Law with a new part - Part 5.1, providing for the possibility to agree with the municipality about the jurisdiction of the land unit and transfer to the respective Ministry. The draft law also provides for an extension of the time limit for drawing up regulations on the procedure for recording the coastal zone of the sea. The Commission has unanimously supported the examination of draft laws at first reading. Please support the draft law at first reading by the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U279	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Land Management. Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U280	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 16 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U281	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 16 December this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour, Member Evita Zālīte-Grosa.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U282	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs examined and supported the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” before the first reading. The purpose of the draft law is to clarify the conditions for the payment of family state benefits. The draft law provides that the cost of family state benefit also continues for children on academic leave due to health problems. The draft law also provides for the specification of the conditions for the payment of state social security benefits to persons who have reached the age of retirement established in the country, as well as the fact that seniors are provided with state social security... the allowance will not be interrupted if the person starts an employment relationship. The draft law also provides for clarification of the conditions to which the state social security benefit is payable for two months in case the person leaves for permanent life outside Latvia. These amendments to the law provide for regular exchange of information between the State Social Insurance Agency, the Administration of Prisons and the Ministry of Education and Science on persons who are in prison or social correction at an educational institution and who are recipients of state social benefits. And more. This draft law provides for strengthening of the delegation of the State Social Benefits Law to the Cabinet of Ministers - to establish the criteria according to which the State Commission of Health and Work Capacity Expertise Doctors provides an opinion on the need for special care. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on State Social Benefits.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U283	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was approved at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U284	The deadline for submitting proposals is 23 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U285	Thank you. Deadline for the submission of proposals: 23 December this year. Dear colleagues, Time to break. Members' registration is over. Interruption until 3.30 p.m. Let's get back to work at 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U286	Dear colleagues, We continue the second remote emergency sitting on 9 December after a break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Defence Training and the Law on New Guard”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U287	Member of the very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption reviewed the draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Defence Training and the Law on New Guard” at its meeting on 30 November this year (No. 1148/Lp13) at second reading. No proposals were received for the second reading. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U288	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Defence Training and the Law on the New Guard”! Please, let's vote! No, 66, against and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U289	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be seven days - 16 December of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U290	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 16 December this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U291	At its meeting on 30 November this year, the Commission also examined the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces’ (No. 1124/Lp13) at second reading. Two proposals were received for the second reading. 1. - a proposal from the Minister of Defence, Mr Pabriks. On organization of the construction of state military defence facilities. It shall be carried out by the State Defence Military Objects and Procurement Centre. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U292	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U293	2. - a proposal from the Minister of Defence, Mr Pabriks. As the Government supported the establishment of the State Defence Logistics and Procurement Centre on 13 October 2020, a proposal from the Minister of Defence has also been submitted in the following wording: “Central procurement for the National Armed Forces is carried out and the management of the full material means of equipment and logistics in the defence sector is carried out by the State Defence Logistics and Procurement Centre.” This proposal is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U294	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U295	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U296	Thank you for your report, Mr. Bergmanis. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces” at second reading! Please, let's vote! No, 64, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U297	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be seven days - 16 December of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U298	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 16 December this year. Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting the agenda section on the draft decisions on the recognition of a person as a member of the National Resistance Movement. Draft decision on the recognition of Leo Hirschson as a member of the national resistance movement. On behalf of the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity - Member Juris Jušaks. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U299	Dear Members, Honourable Members! Today we have to make a decision recognising Leo Hirschson as a member of the national resistance movement. The decision that we have to decide on is of particular importance, because it is the first decision of the Saeima, which uses the right granted to the legislator to recognise a person as a member of the national resistance movement, and because the specific decision is taken as a zealous defender of the Statehood of the Republic of Latvia Leo Hirschson. In the application by Member Juris Jušas, the Saeima, asking us to assess Leo Hirschson's contribution to the restoration of our country's independence and inviting us to take a decision, has given us detailed facts from Leo Hirschson's life, which are both documented and testified by contemporaries. I would just like to mention some of the facts on the basis of which the application is based. In the context of this information, it is important to highlight some of the events that directly describe Leo Hirschson's merits in reducing the impact of the occupation regime. In particular, active opposition to the Soviet occupying troops stationed in Liepaja, directed against certain military figures. It is also necessary to mention the gathering of young people around us in Riga, working as a teacher and involving them during their free time in the negotiations on the independence of Latvia. Later, as the Awakening Year approaches, - active involvement in the anti-Soviet movement, performing tasks to ensure the safety of the rest of the movement during the gathering events. As Leo Hirschsons emphasises, his activities aimed at restoring multi-party systems in Latvia should be given significant importance, initially acting as a member of the Social Democratic Workers' Party of Latvia. In particular, his active activities attracted the attention of the National Security Committee of the occupying regime and, through targeted work by repressive services, Leo Hirschson was apprehended for the movement of firearms and ammunition. Importantly, he is in fact the last political prisoner to be released from the KGB isolator on Stabu Street on 16 May 1990, just two weeks after the adoption of the declaration “On Restoring the Independence of the Republic of Latvia”. It should be noted that Leo Hirschson, as a member of the national resistance movement, was appointed as the cavalier of the Order of Viesturs for the benefit of the State of Latvia on 19 October 2018 and was awarded with the highest state award - the Order of Viesturs. It should be stressed that despite the specified set of facts, both the relevant municipal commission and the three instance courts of Latvia had refused to recognise Leo Hirschson as a member of the national resistance movement, according to the letter of the law. It is due to the fact that on 16 June 2021 13. The Saeima adopted amendments to the law “On the Status of a Member of the National Resistance Movement”, which provides an opportunity to evaluate the contribution of such people in a separate process under the competence of the legislator and, following the aim of the law, to assess the merits of those people who, while working on the National Resistance Movement, participated in armed struggle or other means fighting for the restoration of Latvia proclaimed on 18 November 1918 and donated themselves to defend the people against the violence and genocide of the occupation regime, I invite Members of the Saeima to support the draft decision on granting the status of a Member of the National Resistance Movement to Leo Hirschson.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U300	Thank you. Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the recognition of Leo Hirschson as a member of the national resistance movement! Please, let's vote! No, 59, against and refrains. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, The order of business - under the heading "Preview of draft decisions". Draft decision on order No. 24 of the Cabinet of Ministers of 24 November 2021 879 and 26 November 2021 880 amending Order of 9 October 2021 No. 720 ‘Advertising the Emergency’. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Maris Možvillo. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U301	Hello, chair of the sitting! Hello, colleagues! Hello, listeners, viewers! Document No. is presented to your attention. 794/Lm13 containing two orders of the Cabinet of Ministers - No. 879 and No 880 - which in turn is an amendment to Cabinet Order No. 720 Promulgating an emergency. In brief of the Cabinet of Ministers Order No. 879, which is dealt with by the order. As it has been decided to allow those workers who have started vaccination before 15 November to continue to work, it is necessary to specify accordingly the references to several Regulations. 662 points to the contrary. The amendments to paragraph 5.10.2 of the Ordinance specify the conditions for the use of economic services (including cultural services or outdoor attractions) and for attending events (including sports competitions) in an epidemiologically secure environment, by providing that children who do not hold a vaccination or congestion certificate may use services and attend events, but only with persons holding an interoperable vaccination or congestion certificate, and subject to the conditions of points 5.10.5 and 5.10.6. At the same time, it is clear from these amendments that children cannot use the economic services and visit the measures alone without the presence of adults if they do not have a vaccination or congestion certificate. Technical clarifications have been made in point 5.14 to make it clear that working time restrictions do not apply to essential services and first-time sales of goods, with the exception of street sales and markets. Technical clarifications have been made in order to ensure a clear interpretation of point 5.20, which provides that on holidays and holidays, commercial services and essential economic services may be provided at points of sale whose area for the provision of commercial services, excluding other public spaces, toilets, corridors and the like, does not exceed 1500 square metres and which carry out first-hand sales of goods in an epidemiologically insecure environment. Sales services may also be carried out at first-required outlets and the provision of essential economic services in locations located in supermarkets with an area of more than 1500 square metres. These economic and trade services are provided in an epidemiologically secure environment. On holidays and holidays, every point of sale or provision of services may operate in a shopping centre if it has a separate entrance from an outdoor space and its visitors do not enter the shopping centre's shared premises. Those points of sale and economic services shall be subject to an appropriate epidemiological safety regime. In addition, the draft order contains a point stating that the points of sale and the economic services provided in the supermarkets do not alter the epidemiological safety environment. The conditions for sports training and sports competitions are editorially specified for senior athletes in an epidemiologically safe environment, specifying which of the general epidemiological safety requirements in sport are not applicable to senior athletes (for the area to be provided, size of groups, duration of training, working time in sports competitions, etc.). For the sake of clarity of the law, the regulation of exceptions to the events of the highest leagues of team sports events is separate from that of international sports events (including international leagues of team sports events), since the only exception to this is when sports competitions can take place in an epidemiologically semi-safe environment (yellow mode) is when international sports events (including international leagues of team games) take place, and only if the so-called bubble format, which provides for the complete separation of all participants from the overlap with the organisation of competitions and takes place in non-participating persons, is ensured. Telecommunications service providers are expected to be able not only to provide services but also to market related goods. In order to enable the practitioner to provide veterinary medical assistance to animals, it is necessary to provide that veterinary medical services may be obtained without an interoperable certificate. In order to prevent uncontrollable gatherings of people within the framework of fireworks, flushes and other events organized by municipalities and state institutions, state and municipal authorities are allowed to organise activities intended to celebrate holidays and memorial days, but they are not allowed to organise public events that promote uncontrolled gatherings of people, which make it impossible to observe epidemiological events. Despite the fact that currently there is a downward trend in Covid-19 cases in Latvia, as well as a gradual decrease in the number of Covid-19 patients in hospitals, there are still high risks for a renewed increase in disease. This is due to the very rapid spread of Covid-19 in Europe, as well as to increased mobility of people during the pre-winter period, Christmas and New Year celebrations. Therefore, in order to address as far as possible the risks of a repeated rapid outbreak of covideum, which would have serious consequences for the health sector, it is necessary to encourage collective testing, where there are higher risks for the spread of Covid-19, i.e. collective labour. Large-scale testing in all workplaces would also reduce workers' incapacity for work due to Covid-19 disease or the obligation to respect the risks of home quarantine due to close contact with infected people. Therefore, provision should be made for regular Covid-19 testing twice a week by means of antigen self-tests to perform on-site duties where contact with other workers, recipients or visitors is possible. When performing their duties at a distance or in a fully closed environment from other employees, recipients or visitors, regular screening tests may not be carried out. It is therefore necessary to provide that work obligations can only be performed on the spot by a regular Covid-19 screening test. The project provides that, as of 6 December 2021, all workers shall only perform on-site (vaccinated and flaked) testing with a test certificate issued not earlier than 72 hours or with a screening antigen test organised by the employer not earlier than 72 hours earlier. The employer may use self-tests for employee screening. It is Order No. of the Cabinet of Ministers Annotation of 879 annotation. And another document - Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No. 8:80. Annotation is also given. In order to prevent the possible uncontrolled spread of Covid-19 virus type B.1.1.529 in the territory of Latvia, measures should be laid down to reduce the introduction of virus from these countries into Latvia by providing for an entry ban for non-Latvian citizens who have resided in those countries, as well as an obligation to observe the quarantine of the house and carry out the RNA test after entering Latvia. The Commission meeting was attended by experts who set out their vision and reported on the progress and results of the disease at present. That would be a report to me... everything from the Commission. I ask my colleagues to look into this matter.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U302	Thank you, Mr Možville, for your report. Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On Cabinet of Ministers Order of 24 November 2021 No. 879 and 26 November 2021 880 amending Order of 9 October 2021 No. 720 “Advertising the Emergency”! Please, let's vote! For - 49, for - 18, for - 1. Decision adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, we are on the agenda under the presidency report - on own-initiative proposals submitted. The Saeima Presidium has received the draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 023 collective application of Latvian citizens “On granting interoperable certificate to citizens with Sars-CoV2 antibodies in the body”. Does one of the Members object to the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this sitting? Please log in. There is no objection by Members. We are starting to examine the draft decision of the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications – Member Janīna Kursīte–Pakule. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U303	The President of the sitting. Dear colleagues, On 6 November this year, the Saeima received a collective application from 10 023 Latvian citizens “On granting an interoperable certificate to citizens with Sars-CoV2 antibodies in the body”. On 1 December this year, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application reviewed the application and listened to the initiative representative who informed that Covid-19, which is interoperable in Lithuania, Estonia and Switzerland, is entitled to receive a Covid-19 certificate. In view of the initiative representative, in such cases also in Latvia, a person should issue a short-term interoperable Covid-19 certificate with an opportunity to extend it if the person has carried out analyses at his own means. The representative of the Disease Prevention and Control Centre, as well as representatives of immunologists, expressed their opinion that, based on the current scientific research base, issuing interoperable certificates to persons with antibodies in the body would not be supported, because there is no complete assurance that the presence of antibodies in the human body really protects the person from disease. It was stressed that post-exposure vaccination would provide better protection against re-disease. After hearing the invited persons, the Commission decided to refer this Latvian citizens' initiative to the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs for further evaluation. The Commission prepared a draft decision of the Saeima “On the way forward of the 10 023 collective application for an interoperable certificate for citizens with Sars-CoV2 antibodies in the body”. I ask my colleagues to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U304	Thank you for your report. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U305	Very respectful head of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, This question about the so-called... I think that it is extremely interesting to take immunity from overloading immunity or from vaccines. Undoubtedly, there would be benefits and benefits from if we could all agree and find out... at least agree on how to interpret the immunity that has been acquired after the rupture. Unfortunately, what we're seeing is maybe even that... polarisation of the society, where those who express the opinion that, here, immunity acquired after overloading is equally effective or even effective... or even... as effective as the immunity derived from vaccines is considered almost to be those who do not believe in science. But an interesting thing, colleagues, if we start... I'm very interested... Unfortunately, I was unable to take part in a sub-committee meeting, but I was very interested in seeing those reviews from this sub-committee sitting, which appeared in the mass media, where I have read, among other things, that, behold, the Saeima... I also quote from what has been referred to: ‘... the Saeima Member Ilmārs Dūritis is in the opposition that political decisions must be based on expert recommendations, not vice versa, and, moreover, on issues relating to human health, this must primarily be the opinion of experts and not political ones. ‘ Is it a subtext for this initiative not to be vaccinated?’ asked I. Dūritis.’ Colleagues, this is a very good question, which can also be asked vice versa. First of all, let us ask if there would be any practical benefit from having a more constructive conversation without any post-immunity religious culture... which is derived from the vaccine compared to a... after flaking. If we had such a conversation, we could look much more calmly at those who have acquired immunity by overloading. This would remove quite a lot of stress in society, and it would also add a much larger number of people to the active economy. For us, perhaps this problem, which I understand, the government and coalition politicians now choose not to see... that actually 10 percent... A tenth of the labour force is now actually excluded not only from the economic movement but (not hearable) ... they are denied the opportunity not only to work, get... may be prevented from receiving unemployment benefits and so on. So if we could talk constructively about this overload immunity, maybe this problem would be a lot... Maybe it wouldn't even exist. So let's start with Mr. Durysh said... Very well - I fully agree with Mr Dūritis in that we need to be based on expert advice on these matters, not vice versa... not politics. What do experts say? That's an interesting thing, colleagues. Different experts say quite different things. It is true (as I understood) that all the experts who took part in the sub-committee meeting at which this conversation took place... all these experts in one voice say that, no, it is not possible to grant a Covid-19 certificate, a green certificate, to people based on some antibody tests, generally immunity after flaking is much lower than immunity after vaccination. But there are few experts... And it's also true that... If it can be called some kind of scientific consensus in the world, then that opinion is quite similar... But there are also few experts, scientists (and these are scientists with very respected words and positions, scientists, professors and researchers working, teaching and researching at the best universities in the world, such as Harvard University, Stanford University, and so on), who say the opposite. And there's not a lot of research... For example, you can refer to a publication that says that... a list of 141 qualitative studies has been compiled, claiming that the immunity of overloading, or natural immunity, is also quite, quite effective. There are therefore different experts, and different experts and different scientists have quite different views on this issue. Let me quote, my colleagues, for example, one study... conclusions from one study, published even in the respected scientific journal The Lancet. It claims that, taking into account the common evidence of immunity derived from the previous... infections, that is, from overloading, policy makers need... the need to consider in a very serious way the immunity of this flaking in its decisions on the granting of certificates. One country, Lithuania, has been mentioned here, which already grants such certificates on the basis of antibody tests. Another country, Switzerland, has also been mentioned, where people who can prove by PCR that they have overloaded the covide are regarded as being equally protected as those who have been vaccinated. Given that various experts say different things, I think we have no other way out to start thinking with our head and ask our experts questions in order to better understand what is happening. In this parliamentary sub-committee, Dace Zavadska said the following... I will also quote, my fellow Members, from the report on this sub-committee meeting. I quote: “It is not possible to safely grant a Covid-19 certificate according to the amount of antibodies, because it is not possible to say how many days a person will be protected and whether he will not infect others and not be dangerous to society...” It said Dace Zavadska, the President of the State Council of Immunisation. So here, colleagues, I think you can and should ask the following questions. Yes, it is not possible to say how many days a person will be protected and if he will infect others. But, colleagues, what about vaccines? Do we not know today? We know, however, that people who have been vaccinated can also be infected quite calmly by other people. We're here... not 100, now 99 Members of the Saeima, despite the fact that those who have not been vaccinated have been excluded from sittings of the Saeima by a majority decision... We have about 99 Members left, all vaccinated, sitting in a remote sitting of the Saeima. And those who sit in the great chamber of the Saeima, as the head of the sitting, shall sit in the masks. So it turns out that those who have been vaccinated can also infect other people and be dangerous to society, because why do we do so? Let us also ask ourselves: if our experts say that antibody tests cannot be trusted, how are the studies that determine the effectiveness of vaccines going on? The same studies from which we then come to the conclusion that, here's a vaccine like that... its efficiency falls to the same percentage after three, six months. Do these studies not measure the amount of antibodies in people who have received or have not received the vaccine after three, six and so on? So can anyone, maybe the same Mr. Durish, explain to me how it is then that we can... we say that based on these studies, which, looking at the amount of antibodies in humans, concludes how long vaccines work... we can take decisions on how long the vaccination certificate will last, but on the basis of antibody tests we cannot grant the same certificate. So, either we believe in the amount of antibodies or we don't believe in the amount of antibodies. And then... Is that so? We get it that... Latvian experts say that it is not possible from the amount of antibodies... respond, determine whether or not a person is protected, but Lithuanian experts can determine the amount of antibodies, whether or not a person is protected, and on this basis grant him a certificate for 60 days if I am not mistaken. Also in Switzerland - based on the PCR test, on the amount of antibodies, a man can issue a certificate. Colleagues, in my opinion, there is a great deal of questions here, but the main question is whether decisions are really made on the basis of objective conclusions of experts and studies, or what is happening is simply a policy where either thing becomes an end in itself and everything that, to say, is not with us is against us. I think that such polarisation (I would stress - political polarisation!) There's nothing to do with science. It will only create unnecessary tensions in our societies, it will have a high economic price and all other prices. That is why I am pleased with the decision of my colleagues working in the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application, to continue... call for this discussion to continue with the Social and Labour Commission. I hope that this discussion will be based on fact, not on the suspicion of different parties, whether one or the other wants or does not want to vaccinate, whether they are vaxers or anti-vacciners, or who. I very much look forward to this - a constructive, evidence-based discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U306	Thank you, Mr Dombrovskis, for the very detailed debate on this issue, but I ask and remind the next speakers that we are currently talking about the draft decision and are deciding on the way forward. We are not debating sub-committee decisions, we are debating the decision taken by the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Applications on the progress of this own-initiative proposal. I ask the next debate to talk about the way forward, otherwise I will stop your debate. The name in the debate is Marim Možville. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U307	Thank you for your word. I will try to stick to the range of issues and problems identified by the chair of the sitting that we are looking at at at this time, but I would also like to draw my colleagues' attention to some things that, unfortunately, I do not always manage to develop and move forward... and receive answers to the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption because colleagues' views are not heard, most of them the opposition's opinion. I would like to express my support for the further progress of this application and as a way forward, other colleagues who will continue to work on the fact that we now have to be aware that we have decided, with the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers and decisions of the Saeima, that part of the population we declare sick because they have not received the vaccine. We have taken on board, as we say, that the fatemaker plays a role in those who do not currently feel sick or are trying to get sick. The next, which is very important, is that this determination of antibodies in the body is very important and the availability and acceptance of the test by the state is also very important for employers, because employers' employees are now forced to fail to fulfil their job obligations, because the state has imposed on economic operators and delegated economic operators to resolve the country's mistakes and to promote the vaccination process, although this is not an obligation for economic operators and is not necessarily the main way of doing business. We are already seeing this happening in public institutions, particularly in schools where teachers leave work simply because they have not been vaccinated. Although, compared to the processes that take place in schools where children can now learn by means of express tests, these people have a lot of reflections about the country's consistency with regard to both the process and the whole of the event. In the future, when examining this application, it would be desirable to take into account that the state has currently made unnecessary burdens on both entrepreneurs and public institutions, who cannot fully work, cannot fully secure their employees' income and continue to do their... mission. And the third issue, which is very important at the moment - and I have not received the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption... hearing that there are situations where, although the Cabinet of Ministers states that financial services should be available in the red regime, we are now faced with situations where individual banks have declared that citizens can only access banking services in the green regime. What this means is for people who may not be as well as to say, knowledgeable IT technologies that do not rely on different electronic means of data storage and verification, but still use the way that has been developed and trusted for years to communicate with their own funds in the bank - the direct presence. In this case, once again, the state has placed both a concern on the banks' shoulders and unjustified bans on the people who keep their funds in the bank, because that state has always wanted - that as much money as possible be kept in the bank by any citizen. The antibodies mentioned in this application and the detection of these antibodies would be a golden midway through which people would have access to their financial resources without problems. I have several documents received from the Latvian Financial Industry Association, where the association complains that their objections to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Operational Management Group have not been taken into account, and these objections are that the regulations on premises and everything else do not always reach the indicators that banks can offer. The banks therefore decide to provide these services under the green regime in order to meet all the conditions. In this case, I see that the granting of an interoperable certificate to citizens with a certain level of antibodies would be a golden midway, we would perhaps even return some confidence to the government, perhaps to reduce a little the terrible fragmentation in society, which is causing a lot of negativity. And also the local and local mortality in hospitals, and the rest of it is now the result of its fragmentation, the result of which is that the country acts very unwittingly, both in terms of vaccination and in terms of explaining this important mission that everyone should assume. I call for the progress of this application to be made without delay and for a sensible decision to be made, which in this case would perhaps be the midway of gold, which would enable the country, however, to overcome these difficult times and perhaps try to combine its divided human and popular masses a little... which at present are really very, very fragmented, very, very dissatisfied with the work of the government and, ultimately, limited in their actions, both with their time, with their work and with their means. I call on my colleagues to support the way forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U308	Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U309	Dear colleagues, I call for support to be given to this draft decision and not to delay further examination of the substance of the decision. I invite all representatives of the Social and Labour Commission, and especially the Ministry of Health, to read the joint study “Covid-19 seroprevalence study in the general population of Latvian residents” of the University of Latvia, Riga Stradins University and “Bior”, which was prepared this summer, whose authors are the best scientists in this field in Latvia - Professor Uga Dumpis, Anda Ķīvīte-Urtane, Jeļena Storoženko and several others. I will not try to list all these people at the moment, but very, very many participants in this study were. In this study, an attempt was made to determine the amount of antibodies in the Latvian population, how many people have been ill without symptoms. This study thus involved all those who were ill but had not found them laboratoryly, including those who had not had any symptoms of the disease at all. This study showed that out of all respondents, about 20 percent of children had become ill without an official finding that they had a community... laboratory confirmed, 20 percent! In the summer, it was. A similar picture was seen in different population groups, where the rate of disease was much higher than that found in official statistics, including, for example, such interesting nuance in Latgale region, where people are likely to find it difficult to get to the testing points on a daily basis to make sure of the disease. If we realize that in the summer they were about 20 percent of children who were ill with SARS Covid-19 and this appeared to them in an antibody test, then it is clear that these people could in essence receive vaccination... the leak certificate. All these children could take part in various sporting activities, together with their parents visit cultural events, without worrying if they are there... have been vaccinated or not, but they were essentially flaked. Perhaps from this point of view, the Commission should also look further at how to resolve this issue, especially for children, who still have fewer laboratory tests, while at the same time the disease intensity is often higher than for certain groups of adults. I really call on every Member of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs to get to know this 39-page long study. It won't take a long time, it's some... A few dozen minutes to pass through this study, considering that there are also sections that can certainly cross. Get acquainted with this study and draw conclusions, and make right, appropriate decisions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U310	The floor in the debate for Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U311	A very short speech. I have two proposals. The first proposal is to support the draft decision. The second proposal is to think about the lack of a final phase in the work on collective applications: information on the outcome of the examination of the application. It seems to me that it would be good if the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Submissions thought that perhaps an amendment to the legislative act should be introduced, with a quarterly report at the Saeima meeting on the outcome of the examination of collective submissions with a subsequent broad public debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U312	Thank you, Mr Dolgopolova, for a very constructive debate. Let's go! Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U313	Good evening, everybody! I will support further progress in this popular initiative because I myself have made the same proposals. Since I am not working in the committee responsible, I would like to draw the attention of the committee responsible, which will look further at this initiative, to a matter which, in my opinion, could help you make the right decision on this matter. In particular, as has already been rightly mentioned here, it is important to listen to expert advice and to take decisions on the basis of expert opinions. I would like to add that it would also be important to listen not only to experts' opinions but also to be based on real facts when making decisions. Then a couple of real facts that could be useful to you. According to information provided by the Disease Prevention and Control Centre on infections, infections... I looked at the case of reinfection, which is what we are talking about at the moment. Are these people who have antibodies... the extent to which they are exposed to the risks of the virus, the disease, the further ones that can put pressure on our health system and society as a whole. The data are as follows: if we take for the period October 2020 to November 2021 inclusive, then this proportion of re-infected people... then the number is 1633 people, and this proportion is less than one percent - 0.9 percent happens approximately. Of these unvaccinated... who have not been vaccinated, without vaccination... make up about three quarters. It accounts for about 0.7 percent, slightly more than 0.7 percent. What do I mean by that? Colleagues, in the Commission where you are debating, try to see how this is a very minimum proportion of what is going on. Obviously, this small proportion, if we were to further analyse how much of them actually get... There is a need for hospital assistance, how many of these repeated infections are life-threatening, and we will see that this is a very, very small percentage of the risk. I don't think we need to create any special management right now... impose on them the same restrictions as on non-vaccinated and diseased individuals. I think it is obvious that there is an inconsistency, a very large inconsistency. Again, let's say that, this power is dependable... here have created regulations analogously, as they once tried to limit food these... commodities to limit infection. Remember those legends... that the socks could not be purchased and the foil could not be purchased. On the same principle, it is now applied not to goods, but to people, just as pointless... meaningless, let's say so. And what I would call for is to take not only expert advice, but also real life, real facts, and analyze how much load, how big risks would be if we supported this popular initiative and allowed people with antibodies to get a certificate in the body. Thank you, for my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U314	I closed the debate. Please, does the head of the Mandate, Ethics and Application Commission want something to say?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U315	No, thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U316	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 023 collective application for an interoperable certificate for citizens with Sars-CoV2 antibodies in the body”! Please, let's vote! For - 77, for - 2 and for - 1. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On the further direction of the 10 183 collective application of Latvian citizens “On a full hearing, especially for children with hearing impairment””. Are Members opposed to examining this draft decision at this sitting? Please log in. There is no objection. We are starting to examine this draft decision. Name The Chair of the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Application Janīna Kursīte-Pakulė. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U317	The President of the sitting. Dear colleagues, On 10 November this year, the Saeima received a collective application from 10 183 Latvian citizens “On a full hearing, especially for children with hearing impairment”. On 1 December this year... This is where I have to act, not the Public Health Commission, nor the Protection... or another equally respected commission, but the commission of Mandates, ethics and submission examined the application and listened to the representative of the initiative, who pointed out that the initiative was aimed at making children and adults able to hear regardless of their parents' financial or financial capacity. The representative explained that the batteries needed for hearing equipment cost 20 euros per month, spare parts of a collear implant - from 130 euros to 240 euros, with even higher costs for the person in case the device needs repair. The representative of the initiative stressed that children with hearing impairment will have access to the same education as other children when implementing this initiative. This will enable them to fully integrate into the labour market in the future. The Commission, having heard the author of the initiative, unanimously decided to refer this Latvian citizens' initiative to the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs for further evaluation. The Commission prepared a draft decision of the Saeima “On the way forward of the 10 183 collective application “On a full hearing, especially for children with hearing impairment””. I ask my colleagues to support you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2341-U318	Thank you to the head of the commission for the report. Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 183 collective application for a full hearing, especially for children with hearing impairment”! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, As a result, we have reviewed the agenda of the second remote emergency session of the Saeima on 9 December 2021. In 15 minutes, we will continue to see the agenda... The agenda of the remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on December 2. The registration of Members' presence is over. So in 15 minutes, let's say at 16:50, let's see the agenda for the remote emergency session on December 2. In 15 minutes. I'm closing the sitting.
