ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U1	Dear colleagues, On 11 November 2021, the Saeima opened its second remote emergency session. The Bureau proposes that this second extraordinary meeting be held until the end of the agenda, and then we go on an hour-long break. Are there any objections to Members, please? Please open a section on the procedure. There is no objection. Thank you. Let's get started. On the agenda - referral of draft laws to commissions and first reading. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On temporary additional requirements for the work of the Saeima Members at the sittings of the Saeima and its commissions” submitted by the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission be referred to the Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members have asked for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “On temporary additional requirements for the work of Saeima Members in the sittings of the Saeima and its commissions” to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 59, for - 8, for - 1. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes to the Education, Culture and Science Commission... The Commission is asking to examine the draft law at first reading. ( Pause) The name of the rapporteur, Member Juris Rancan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U2	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! So the bill has been drafted by the Saeima Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. The aim of the draft law is, of course, to act in the interest of public health and safety and to recognise that vaccination is one of the most effective measures to prevent Covid-19 infection. What, then, is our draft law? The draft law in this original version provides conceptually that from November 15th of this year only those Members of the Saeima who will be able to present a certificate of vaccination or flaking, or the opinion of the doctor's consilium that vaccination has been postponed for medical reasons, will be able to take part in the sittings of the committee. And in parallel with this conilium opinion, there will also be a specific test to show that the person is not infectious at that time. So these will be temporary additional requirements. The draft law provides that, in the event of failure to comply with these requirements, a Member shall not be allowed to attend the meetings in question and shall not be entitled to compensation for housing and travel expenses. And, of course, they're getting off the salary, just like the current regime in the Saeima order roll, so 20 per cent for every sitting so late. The draft law also provides, of course, that the Saeima will once again look at this draft law every two months - it will look at how the situation has changed and assess proportionality. And in general, it is foreseen that the draft law will remain in force until 1 July 2022. This is the original conceptual version that it now looks like, but the draft law was discussed in the Commission quite a lot and quite a bit loud. The proportionality has been assessed, whether this objective - public health and safety - can be achieved by other alternative means. It has been clarified, including from experts, and already three, five, perhaps even more, spoke in the Commission about the fact that only testing does not provide this safety, which has also been demonstrated by social care centres, that at a time when vaccination was not yet available, but only testing was available, the incidence in social care centres with all the testing was still high. On the other hand, at the moment when most of social care was collected... customer and employee, we saw a very rapid decrease in morbidity. So we all have this statistical information in front of us, which proves that vaccination works. It is also known at the moment what is the ratio of this in hospital between vaccinated, unvaccinated and severely ill and unvaccinated... And, of course, it takes into account the fact that we have the highest mortality in the country from the Covid-19 throughout the European Union at this point. Therefore, this draft law has been drafted, and in the Commission, speaking with the Ombudsman's Office, this draft law has been supported and, of course, in the Commission speaking, the urgency has also been supported. I therefore call for a vote at this point on the urgency of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U3	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent establishment of the draft law “On temporary additional requirements for members of the Saeima for the work at the sittings of the Saeima and its commissions”! Please, let's vote! On - 58, against - 9, refraining from - 1. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U4	Thank you, colleagues. I call for support to be given to this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U5	Thank you for your report. Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U6	Colleagues! I also took part in the debate on this draft law, although it happened on a case-by-case basis. I was accidentally sent a link to this commission, I was not specifically invited, because those Members who do not have an interoperable certificate have not yet been identified, if we see that the date, which is also set by the Cabinet of Ministers order, is 15 November. So I really have only been happy to listen to this commission in person, and I have only been happy to speak about the substance of this draft law, and to put forward my arguments against the adoption of this draft law. Firstly, if we look at the proportionality of this draft law, it is absolutely clear that the purpose of this draft law, as already stated by the Ombudsman himself, is not, as the Ombudsman himself, because the other experts who were invited to draw up this draft law did not attend the meeting of the commission or expressed his opinion... So the only law-enforcement expert, if you could say so, who said about this draft law, was the law-enforcement officer. He referred to the fact that legal arguments on this issue are secondary and first of all important: political determination. I think this is a very important point if we talk further about the progress of this draft law and its activities in nature. The argument put forward by the Ombudsman about a political solution which, in his view, marks this common direction, which sets out Members' duty to follow the vaccination policy set up by the government, thus setting an example for society, is... of course, leaves no room for democracy, because democracy, as we know, is also the existence of different rights, different opinions and the right to have a different opinion for every person and this opinion really falls within the system. If we know that a person has the right to life and health, he has the right to his own understanding of how he should continue this life. But what we also see from the rhetoric surrounding the adoption of this draft law is clear that those who are currently moving this draft law have one idea: no other citizen of Latvia has the right to a different opinion on the issue of vaccination. Nobody! Why? Because those Members who represent people who are still in favour of voluntary vaccination, trusting in what the government has said... No, not later than the beginning of this year... they no longer have the right to their views, and we do not know whether they still have the right to exist in that country at all, looking at what decisions are taken in the Cabinet in connection with an emergency order. Consequently, if we see Members of the Saeima who represent people in favour of voluntary vaccination - voluntary vaccination! - if they do not have the right to represent the opinion of these people, it means that democratic processes in our country are under serious threat. If we are talking about electoral rights, we know that the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights deals with a number of cases in which electoral rights were concerned and it was decided that those Members elected by the public... their rights and the right of their constituents to act through those Members in their decision-making shall be inviolable. The same was true for Members of the Austrian Parliament who decided, after very long and long debates and discussions, that they should not be prevented from carrying out their duties, regardless of whether they have gone through this medical procedure or not or even have passed the test procedure. We know that the work of the Saeima Members is made as easy as possible and accessible as possible, so that nothing prevents the Saeima from fulfilling its duties. Here is a bright example. Members of the Saeima shall have all the right to compensation of any kind in respect of an apartment, rent of an apartment, to compensation for transport expenses directly affected by this draft law. This means that a Member from the outermost regions... he shall not be prevented from performing his duties and coming to the Saeima at any time, even during the night, for which he shall be compensated by the Saeima for petrol. It is clear that a Member from a region or even from Riga has the right to come and the obligation to come to the Saeima meeting at any time. Members - the residents of Riga - are also entitled to compensation, but it is good that the number of these recipients of compensation in the Saeima is decreasing, and this is really good. Members living in the regions are also entitled to stay overnight after a long meeting of the Saeima, and therefore the Saeima compensates them only for the flat so that they do not interfere with their duties. Members also have the right to park their car in the parking lot at the Saeima, so that nothing would prevent them from fulfilling their duties, so that they could not excuse the fact that they could not find where to park and therefore delayed the vote. All of this in our legal system is being built around the fact that Members have the best possible conditions to fulfil these obligations, but the exception now - the exception that you want to make - is precisely an exception to this vaccination procedure, and we know that this exception is not proportionate. We know very well that, in September, the Members of the Saeima worked on an interoperable certificate, which had three directions. You have deliberately taken out this third direction, as if on the pretext that testing does not in any way protect Members from infection or other infections. At the same time, you see that in this draft law, you have also included an exception which gives the Member the right to continue his work with testing upon his opinion, but at the same time you say that testing does not prevent either infection or other infection. This means that you allow such an exception, knowing the risks that you have set yourself, but in this case you allow that exception, and perhaps such a Member could infect the entire Saeima, but this is not the objective that you want to achieve. We see that the objective which the decision-makers want to achieve by this draft law is merely to regrow Members, the objective is to change the Member's opinion, to force the Member to change his opinion, thus affecting the Member's elite. We know that these methods are absolutely not democratic. And we also understand that this bill is about your fears. To your fears, colleagues, because you are very well aware that, from 15 November and from this all up to 15 December, the gates of hell will be open for those employees who are employed in the private sphere, you will no longer be ashamed of your constituents, so you believe that if you say so, "You see, we forced those who oppose us to vaccination." Therefore, you may try to wash your conscience for those people who are now being laid off in a mass way, left off and otherwise prevented from getting a living, because if we are talking about people who are covered by all these laws, the law you voted on last Thursday, the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which you produce every week... we know that you, through these rules and laws, prevent people from getting a living in a legal way. You are not restricting rights, but you are simply subtracting these rights. And the discrimination of some Members with regard to their right to vote, to debate and to take part in parliamentary commissions in a different way - in this way you are showing only your weakness. Colleagues, I see that this draft law is not compatible with the Constitution, and I will do everything to prove it in the Constitutional Court accordingly. I call on colleagues not to support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U7	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U8	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Let me start by saying that my position as well as that of the party 'Republic' is, of course, that, in the current situation, it is the moral duty of every member of the Saeima to both vaccinate and convince its constituents, citizens to vaccinate with their own example. And all members of the “Republic” Party have fulfilled this moral duty. However, we can talk here only about ourselves and not about other colleagues. This particular draft law creates a very dangerous precedent for those Members... and I am talking about a few Members, absolutely no more than five Members... prevent them from taking part in the sittings of the Saeima and from representing their voters. This draft law is manifestly contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. What is written here is that these legislative restrictions are both effective and proportionate, and the only ones... It's offered... this draft law does not meet any of these criteria. First of all. How can this limit be effective if we talk only about Members of the Saeima, of which at least 95 per cent have been vaccinated? If we consider vaccines to be effective, then some unvaccinated colleagues cannot seriously endanger the health of vaccinated colleagues. That's point one, colleagues. Second. As to whether this is the only or proportionate way. I would remind you that only about 20 minutes ago you all voted in favour of the new order of the Cabinet of Ministers, which says that it is absolutely acceptable for up to five people to be in one car - to go to work and from work. Some of us... The Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport even believes that it is completely okay if they go there not only with the full... well, completely or not completely open windows, but even is completely okay to remove the windscreen. And in winter time, driving like this is absolutely nothing... So if there's a wish that doesn't... if there is a desire, at least in this way, to prevent these unvaccinated people from infecting each other - I stress, unvaccinated people... What prevents the Bureau from laying these people down in parliamentary halls or commissions in various places at a distance of up to two metres? And just like it is offered by the Cabinet of Ministers in cars, always ensure constant natural ventilation, that is, in the Saeima sitting to work with open windows. If we already... Colleagues, you think it is absolutely acceptable to make people go to work and actually from work in November... actually already in winter with open windows, then perhaps members of the Saeima can also work with open windows in rooms that do not drive anywhere at a speed of 50 or 90 kilometres per hour. So this draft law that you are proposing is obviously not the only way to ensure the epidemiologically safe conditions at the sittings of the Saeima and its commission. In other words, colleagues, this draft law is contrary to the Constitution. And the arguments put forward here, why these restrictions are justified, do not pass any criticism. Consequently, I cannot support this dangerous precedent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U9	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U10	Hello, Latvian society! Hello, my colleagues! While sitting in sofas at a distance is taking place, I'm rented some 80 kilometers... If vaccination is the only way to maintain your health, this does not correspond to any science. Most of the dead, who are not spoken publicly, are overweight, a life of movement. By the way, one part of the Members has a way of life that is too soft. Not the vaccine saves... but alcoholism, which is also widely distributed in part of the audience of the front of the people. Another thing is why people die in Latvia, but don't die in Sweden, where there has never been a locdaun, where there has never been a mandatory mask, there don't steal 500 million in primary health care and don't strip people at home. I am a typical example of a citizen of the Republic of Latvia who, in fact, has paid from his pocket all his or her life, both for his or her own health and for the health of his or her family. And fortunately, to this day, no joke has been able to influence my decisions regarding my or my family's health. Thank God, so far I have succeeded, because so far I and my family have been very healthy. We don't need to use pharmaceuticals, chemistry. We know that walking in the fresh air, that children's sport is a tool, not alcoholism, not sitting at computer screens, not a movey lifestyle, not a gentle speech at remote sittings of the Saeima. Clearly, Latvia has long ceased to be a democratic republic. I have experienced this personally with the many penalties, exclusions, where representatives of other parties will decide what I can think what I can say. I am sure that the next Saeima will certainly have another power. And certainly I will have an opportunity, and I promise you, the coalition Members - I will do everything... that part of you will actually sit in prison. Really human rights violations. And it's not a joke. It's not that some jokes will decide what to do to my health. I am an adult, I myself know very well what I need, what helps me, which does not help me, because the examples of Denmark, Israel and other countries show clearly and clearly that even 85 percent of the society that has been vaccinated do not help. After alpha comes the omega and suffers again from other health problems. Yes, no one can die of the community. And the vaccinees die, by the way. I am sick, according to official data of Latvia (I am not talking about informal but official!) at least one third of the vaccinees. Vaccines will not save this world. I'm not against vaccines. I've been vaccinated in my life. I have vaccinated against tick encephalitis because I was walking in the fresh air through the forest with dogs. I have vaccinated my children against tuberculosis, for example. But if someone tells me in today’s circumstances that “Trust in science!” It's the same thing as... Unification sign - read “Delfus” or “TVNET” or “Panorama” to listen to, or the Latvian Radio... I say, it’s not “Trust in science!” . ‘ Trust in science!’ is not Juris Rancāns from the UK or Neighbours.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U11	Mr. Neighbours... However, I ask for respect for the Saeima. Please get off the trainer! This is not a way to debate the sittings of the Saeima. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U12	Dear President, Honourable Members! Well, I'd like to start right away with the fact that I'm not an antivaccine. I myself have vaccinated, but I support the vaccination of groups at risk and, of course, the principle of voluntaryity. I have a few questions. I have listened carefully to Mr Rancana's report, specifically on the Constitution. And I would perhaps like Mr. Ranzan to explain them... or the Commission, for the next reading, explains these questions - let us say, the proportionality with the Constitution - to me. The first question I have is this. If Article 5 says that the Saeima is composed of 100 Members, and if part of the Members are dissented, are they 100? It does not say whether or not it has been suspended. Why? I'll make it clear. Article 14 states that the dismissal of the Saeima may be proposed by a tenth of the voters with a popular vote and that voters may not withdraw a separate Member of the Saeima. Members of the Saeima are also voters themselves. And it is not said there, I found nowhere that, for example, vaccinated Members of the Saeima could withdraw unvaccinated Members of the Saeima. In particular, as we look at this paragraph 14, it is only possible to release ten votes from... by one-tenth of the voters... gather from the right to vote and then organise a popular vote, or yet we also give the right to withdraw certain Members of the Saeima, say, from the Saeima, who are themselves voters. This should be clarified by Article 14. Next and... Article 18 is very important. And it says that the mandate of a member of the Saeima shall be obtained by persons elected by the Saeima if the Saeima makes a solemn promise at its sitting. There are no other ways in which a Member could acquire or lose his authority. So he gets his powers, he makes a solemn promise, and then the question is, is he getting 100 per cent power or only 50 per cent power? I mean, can the Saeima treat... Article 18 that if he makes a solemn promise, he has nevertheless obtained only 50 per cent of his mandate, that is to say, at a remote sitting, but cannot be present. That is a question that should perhaps have been clarified by the commission, because we have not already been told... because then we should change the actual Constitution and write that one hundred percent of the members of the Saeima are elected by the Saeima if they have made a solemn promise at the Saeima sitting and have been vaccinated. Third. Or... I do not know how many people we have not been vaccinated here - three or four people, maybe only two for this moment, who do not have this certificate or have not become ill. Or, let us say, for three Members it should be difficult for the Constitutional Court, because we are already talking about proportionality. I also understand, Mr. Ranzan referred here to the Saeima... article that states that the Saeima itself is autonomous in its own action, but here it is again... Whether the Saeima is autonomous, for example by providing this Member with some technical means to work remotely, or autonomously to deprive him of his mandate, let us say, to withdraw him from sittings which Article 14 does not provide as if because voters cannot withdraw individual Members. These uncertainties should to some extent be clarified by the Commission, and it seems still (my opinion is, maybe the Commission will convince me to the next reading) that these amendments should be incorporated into future constitutional amendments. Why? I'll tell you. It may happen that in a month's time, some fourth or fifth type of covide appears, which is not working in any way, for example, existing vaccines, and a huge rush to vaccination, but now the epidemic is not very large, the disease is small, let's say, we're working on the ground, but the vaccinees are just... Because it's starting to start again... Let's say 35 or 45 people. Then what happens again? Is the Saeima working or not? In other words, I think that such cases may recur, a situation may emerge... We don't know, it's better that it doesn't appear, because God gives it that it doesn't happen. But if this happens to a new epidemic, and we have to start again... and it appears until the summer of next year when these amendments to the law will work. So what, we're going to come up with some new law again? Maybe really the Saeima... amendments would be easier to incorporate immediately and accept with two thirds of the option, as we do in such exceptional cases. That is why I will, unfortunately, abstain for the time being. I cannot support these amendments because its uncertainty is, however, too great. I repeat specifically to Mr Rancana - however, I would like the Commission to explain to the next reading on Article 14 that voters cannot withdraw individual Members of the Saeima because it has not already been said there whether they withdraw entirely from the Saeima or from separate sittings. And about 18. - whether the mandate of the members of the Saeima is one hundred per cent or, to say, 75 per cent or more. And the third. Is it not better, however, to incorporate it into Saeima... amendments, voting on two thirds and then including those future options that are taking place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U13	Name of Member Evia Papulei. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U14	Madam President, colleagues. It is clear that the authors of this law, the initiators, aim is political, must be noted, traditionally weak in performance. Why? Because looking... and now you have also seen and received an open letter from the school directors, and I understand that such letters will follow again and again... It is clear that even in education, where very successful, very responsible educators have always been and have been working, they start to say that they simply fail to meet in reality the requirements that someone has initiated at the table, what someone has invented at the table and what someone has politically decided to do. Pedagogues and representatives of the industry at this point, so directors, say - we would like to do this, we support vaccination, we support the prevention of a pandemic, we support disease control, we support training on the ground, but we cannot meet the requirements that you have written, because it is simply impossible to do so in reality. The other thing is a political goal. I would also understand if this kind of law would, of course, not only lead Members to set an example of how to act in new situations, including in the event of a pandemic, and make a correct, pragmatic choice, but in no way reduce, limit the spread of the community and do not support the medical community in any way at present, but on the contrary. If you had taken advantage of the opportunity and voted in favour of the amendments to the budget proposed, including those from the opposition, and supported the medical profession, then you could realise that at this moment you are not only deciding politically, but really understand what you are doing. One more. It is understandable that the Saeima can decide politically on various things, perhaps it is also the work of the Saeima, but at the same time it seems to me that the debate (by returning to the budget law) shows that there is a need to rapidly increase funding for education, because then Members would not discuss youth trips with a tight windshield. I therefore call for this law not to be supported this time, of course, every Member to give a pragmatic example to people, but this law shows a weak performance, a clear political short-sightedness and at the same time shows that all other decisions are exactly the same, and people, although they would like to listen, to do it, are simply physically unable to do so. It is likely that this law, if it were to look at the feasibility of execution, does not solve this issue as to how to limit the number of Members to fulfil their duties. I call on you not to support it, but I call for you to continue to avoid weakly prepared laws, including political laws, coming to the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U15	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U16	Yes, I sat in the sofa because it does not violate the respect of the Saeima. What I wanted to say in addition. On democracy. You see, in a democracy... you want to save someone there, now that you are forced. First, a person can be saved. It's amazing that you don't save alcoholics forcefully, that you don't save drug addicts forcefully, AIDS patients, hepatitis C patients. And it's very strange that you're totally indifferent to cancer patients and other patients with very serious diseases. QR codes and all this - it has nothing to do with health, it has nothing to do with health care. Similarly, 500 million are invested (on paper) in the treatment of cohabitees, specifically in the treatment of cohabitees. And it's not in that health system. Assist doctors urge them to go to the aid of volunteers. And this happens at a time when half a million to the Constitutional Court party is approved in the budget - half a million! It is clear that the Constitutional Court plays therefore one hand with this undemocratic regime.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U17	Mr Gobzem, please debate the proposal!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U18	This is about the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U19	Please debate the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U20	It affects me. It affects me, Mrs Le Gallas, personally, it affects me, it does not affect you for the time being, but it will affect you after the next Saeima. And I'm talking here as someone who, thank God, thank God, thank God. - Even the nostrils have not been ill for several years now, I think. My health will be determined by half-healthy, cowardly, lowly people. And I will have to be responsible for the unwillingness of these sloths to move, the unwillingness to change their habits: to eat healthier, to drink less drinks, not only alcohol, but also sugary drinks, not to be in the Saeima canteen or to shoot 50 grams before the Saeima sitting. It turns out I'm irresponsible, not those who do this unhealthy lifestyle, not... The respect of the Saeima, with Mrs Le Gallas's words, is offended by the fact that I show the public that they need to move - it is offended by respect. But when I sit in a sofa, it does not violate the respect of the Saeima. This is the main message that this Saeima gives to the public. What should be shown on TV every week, not just tombs. Yeah, he's dying in Daugavpils...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U21	Mr Gobzem, thank you, your debate is over. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U22	Good afternoon, everybody! Vaccination is clearly an important tool for limiting the spread of comedian disease. And the Saeima has set an example for the whole society in this area. According to publicly available information, more than 90 percent of the people have been vaccinated. The fingers of one hand can count those who have not done so. That is why, today, this show, which is now also being organised around compulsory vaccination of Members, is inconceivable to me. And neither is it acceptable for a number of reasons. Some of them have already been mentioned. First of all, in my opinion, it is, of course, that we have been given this opportunity to be here in the Saeima - to work and represent the interests of society - by the people. And we will not now have to judge each other who is and who is not entitled to carry out these duties. I also believe that there is a clear violation of the Constitution and also a breach of democracy. The society is diverse and it is therefore logical that the various will be its representatives in Parliament. And deny any of them to represent the interests of their voters... then, by nature, we are not simply addressing this Member, but those voters who have delegated their confidence to him. And I think it is very strange for a democratic state that we can, at all, allow such an instrument that, after voters have expressed their will, we can begin to adjust it. It is about the same principle that then we can also get the results of the elections... it does not matter how to vote, how to count, what to count, what to count and what not to add. That is what we are being offered to do today. This is unacceptable to me. The Saeima, the Member... Go on. What is said in this material, which you had the opportunity to get acquainted with, which is also significant that the agenda for this bill appeared only today, and today this bill is being put to the vote. In principle, getting acquainted with all the materials that are added is now very difficult. I tried, looked, and I saw a lot of contradictions in everything that is being said there, and also significant contradictions, and also inconsistency. Also with regard to those studies that claim to be... that there is proof of what is now being said to us in this draft law. Rather, the opposite is said even in the places. And that is, if we are talking about the fact that the fundamental rights of a Saeima Member can be restricted, but it must be in accordance with the Constitution and all the other principles of law, that every restriction of rights must be proportionate, then you tell me where is this proportionality - to prevent these five Members from representing the interests of their constituents in the Saeima, in addition, in a situation where everyone else is vaccinated? I have heard these claims, I have read these claims that these unvaccinated, yes, can spread this virus more than vaccinated ones. Although we know that vaccinees can spread this virus, there can be carriers and distributors of this virus. Moreover, according to the Health Ministry, it has provided information on Members' questions... If we take these morbidity statistics, then, again, according to the information provided by the Ministry of Health... and divide the number of these positive tests that have been carried out for vaccinated, partially vaccinated and unvaccinated, then we get the following numbers. Then these figures are real from Latvia's statistics provided by the Ministry of Health Saeima (as if there were no grounds to doubt them)... So we see that the unvaccinated proportion... the proportion of morbidity is... The proportion of positive tests is 6.6 per cent. Partially vaccinated - 8.18 per cent, partially vaccinated - 7.52 per cent. Then I have a question: explain in this whole story, where is this proportionality here for these five unvaccinated people not to do... represent the interests of their voters due to the remaining 95 vaccines? If we see that, in principle, both can carry the infection. If we see that these 95s have protected themselves from those five who have not done so. I think in this whole story, that might be a proportion... its proportional requirement - require these unvaccinated individuals to carry out tests at regular intervals. Yes, we know that this period of infection could be... not always appear immediately, but I think it would be proportionate, given that everyone else has been vaccinated... This whole story. That's why, personally, I'm looking at all this... I cannot support this draft law, because I see that it is a direct threat to democracy, the rule of law and, by its very nature, it will not promote vaccination, but will raise more questions in society - how it happens then that you are more than 90 per cent vaccinated there and yet you believe that it is no longer safe. What is the credibility of this vaccination process, the vaccines - whether they are able or not to protect them? Such legitimate questions will arise. And more importantly, with this, we are creating again, by nature, a precedent for those who have not been vaccinated. In principle, we create tribunals, we create excuses like this... basically, as I see it, it's something like continuing to divide society. As was done in the past after ethnic origin, offering to take away a monument or something like it, so that these contradictions can be directly aroused. And I think that is the only thing that we will achieve with such a draft law, so personally I will not support such a draft law because I do not see any meaning and justification for it. And more than that, I see even the harm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U23	Name to Member Juris Rancan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U24	Thank you, colleagues. When I hear this debate, I'm a little sad... But well, I'll start a little bit of a... on this draft law. I'll remind you of history. Today we celebrate Lacplesy's day. Colleagues, we celebrate Lacplesis Day because we had freedom fighters who were not afraid to give their lives for Latvia. Today we see Members and part - I stress, I hope the smallest part! - companies that are not ready to swing on behalf of Latvia's health. People at that time fought for freedom, fearlessly neither of digging, cold nor disease or death, because when they went to war, they realized that they could die and give their lives for this idea. At the moment, we have Members who are simply timid in fear of the pot and who are blocking the defeat of another enemy at the moment. The victory of another enemy and the virus. You are simply delaying the process of winning the virus with your demagogic and, I would say, stupid speeches. It has been shown scientifically that vaccines reduce the number of people who are ill, that vaccines reduce the number of people who are severely ill, and that vaccines reduce mortality. All this has been proven. You're telling me today that hospitals need volunteers... but it is for you that you also need them volunteers! You are delaying the vaccination coverage! In Denmark, hospitals are not overcrowded today, and they are not overcrowded precisely because the Danish society has vaccinated, not in the name of mystic immunity... natural, on which each individual individually insists... I am surprised by individual Members who lack state thinking... on a large scale. They see their health narrowly - only their own health, they believe that their health is primary - in the interests of the health of the whole of the public. Look at the big... level, look at Latvia, not just me, me, I think, “if I don’t get sick, then you’re there... “ [footsteps] I do not want to repeat the words that are being given to those who are currently fighting for an increase in the coverage of vaccination, finally to relieve the hospitals and to free the hospitals of those who, yes, may be dealing with other health problems, including those related to a life-saving lifestyle. Colleagues, let's stop thinking about ourselves, think about the country, especially in this day - Lacplesa! At that time, our ancestors... We are now proud of them because they could have been joint and several, and they were not afraid to sacrifice their lives. Here we have people who fear the ankle in the shoulder... I don't know what they're afraid of... and therefore hinders overcoming the crisis, overcoming the communion crisis. For their sake, we all have to live in limitations right now, and they're trying to tell us some demagogic and modest things, trying to tell us that we're here and we're not interested in what's happening around us. Or, indeed, the view is so narrow that they do not understand how these processes are taking place on a national level. They only see their health. Mr Kirštein, if we are talking about your legal arguments, then again - if we read the Constitution... which is defined in the Constitution... The Constitution provides that the freedom of a Member may not be restricted without the consent of the Saeima. Palasai Parliamentary roll of order - Saeima Members for serious violations of ethics can be excluded from six sittings. Yes, his mandate is limited at that time. If a member of the Saeima commits a crime and is placed in custody, his mandate shall be suspended... he's there. On the other hand, if a member of the Saeima is convicted of a criminal offence, he is excluded from the composition of the Saeima. Where did you say that there were problems in the law to limit the parliamentary powers or actions? Where did you think you shouldn't do that? The Constitution allows this, and the roll of order of the Saeima is a legislative act of the lower force of the legal hierarchy, which may be amended and which does not require two-thirds... What's wrong with you? Colleagues, we are responsible for this day - Lacples - by solidarity with the common enemy - Covid-19 virus! Finally, look for excuses for how foolish opinions would be horrendously valuable and protected! Colleagues, the draft law makes it clear - if there are medical reasons, please, doctor's consilium will tell you and you will be able to come and participate. What do you find disproportionate? It seems disproportionate for you to limit your reference to incomprehensible conspiracy theories or sources distributed in social networks... where are the views expressed? You believe that it is appropriate, in the context of an epidemic, to bring these opinions into line with those of experts and Infectologists? Are you serious? You believe that any views are equivalent to those of experts working in these sectors for years? And that's why they... At present, the Saeima should take into account all the views, including these stupid ones? In this way, we are not out of the crisis. It is because you spread all this misinformation and motivate people not to vacate, telling the fairy tales that you are at this point... Yes, you are healthy, but someone may not be healthy because he will have listened to your stories and inspired them. Please, my fellow Members, I call for this draft law to be supported. I believe that this is even too democratic, because it limits your participation only in the sittings present. Now... in the current version, it allows for participation in remote sittings, but, in solidarity with the rest of society, this regulation should be made more stringent, since the entire public administration is currently only allowed to work with certificates and no remote format is allowed. Please don't make it out of you... exceptions. You have been elected, honourable colleagues, to represent the interests of the voters, but that does not mean that if your constituents believe that he is unvaccinated and do not want to be in solidarity with the rest of the society and do not want to vaccinate, you cannot go to randomize, solve all this problem with one elementary activity - go to the doctor and collect... and continue to represent your voters. What's stopping this? Who told you that, in order to defend and represent unvaccinated voters, a Member should be unvaccinated? Where are you taking this? What logic? Colleagues, I call for this draft law at first reading to be supported and for time to end. The longer you take, the longer we continue to be in the communion crisis. Once again on Lāčplēsis Day, I call for solidarity, all to vaccinate and win together our enemy - Covid-19 virus! Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U25	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, The first thing I would like to say is that I do not think that Mr Rancan has the right to see how silly or foolish the statements that have been allowed in the debate are. I don't think it's his job as the head of the commission and as a drafter of the law. I, together with President Levite, represent the same seven and a half percent of the vaccinated and overloaded people, but it is not a story. Many of the arguments put forward just now by Mr Rancana about solidarity, about the dangers, about the pandemic and so on are in place, because the pandemic is creating an emergency not for two or three weeks, but it is creating a serious emergency in the world in which emergency methods and emergency methods can and must really be used. What are we talking about here? Where is the political courage, where are the arguments that could tell the public that, in an emergency situation... In a global crisis, we state that vaccination is compulsory? ( With the rare exceptions that are already foreseen today - if you say medical indicators do not allow this vaccination.) Provide and import the compulsory vaccination. It lacks courage. There's cowardice here. By adopting this kind of law, it would also fall off the need to adopt some additional acts on members of the Saeima, as members of the Saeima are obliged to make a solemn oath, which states very clearly and intelligiblely that the member of the Saeima undertakes to comply with the Constitution and the laws of Latvia. And in that case, the need for all kinds of punishment measures, this kind of (but not especially thoughtful, to put it out to you) draft laws. Therefore, we should consider and reflect on what should really be done by courageous men on Lacples Day for the benefit of the people. I think that this draft law does not solve any of the tasks that the planners wanted... provide for this type of law. However, I would call for no support and a return to what I have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U27	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U28	Colleagues! I would also call for the praise of our heroes not to be used to guide any concrete political initiative in its context. Go on. I would like to touch on the legislative order. Perhaps I am wrong, but this bill was not available to Members (as I see from my Saeima e-mail) before the Saeima sitting. As a general rule, we see that the documents to be examined at the Saeima sitting are sent to the relevant Members even five minutes before the Saeima sitting, even a minute before, but at least I do not see this bill personally in my e-mail. We are therefore talking about the limited right of Members to get acquainted with the draft law and, as Mr Zarins said, very, very much in this draft law's annotation... research included, because to really support a draft law that is based, as we see from annotation, from countless studies, some of which have been named, specifically mentioned, but some (be listening carefully!) Not even at all, because if we see from this bill... we see it as follows: “The possibility to take part in the sittings of the Saeima and its commissions with an interoperable... certificate confirming the fact of vaccination or flaking has been deliberately selected.” And the following are the various studies. Research in medical science shows that there is a lower risk of developing disease. And then an example is mentioned in accordance with the instructions of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. Then a study is mentioned in brackets, then data from other international health institutions... data are not included, as well as based on results from clinical trials with vaccines (not listed) and other studies. And here we see that it is enough simply to refer to the word'research' to justify this legislative initiative accordingly. That's exactly what I see, that's the research... We have been convinced by living with the community for more than a year that research has changed. At first there was a study of masks that were not effective; now there are quite other studies. Just like... Similarly, several months later, we will come to a complete conclusion. Therefore, there is certainly a question of the quality of this annotation (in general - the quality of the law), if it is built on variable research, in fact, the “Panorama” news. If we talk about what we are always trying to blame Mr Rancan for talking about silly opinions, then Mr Rancan is likely to remain silent when we talk about Mr Pavlut's waste, because, yes, Mr Rancan, it is true that doctors are calling for help to the hospital and unfortunately unvaccinated persons cannot have access to the help hand in this case because you have decided to do so. But why not help the hospital, Mr. Pavļuta, who spends around 300 thousand PR campaigns (at the moment is going to spend)? He's going to send out 200 thousand letters. The question is what? If almost 75 percent of Latvia's population has been vaccinated. He is going to spend 50,000 on a campaign to promote an interoperable certificate, he is going to spend 50,000 on any PR agency on social networks to argue with those who are against vaccination, and he is spending 30,000 on a campaign to place advertising in Russian media. This is really... This is a “great” concern for our doctors, for our family doctors, who are now tied to their hands... so that they can help those community patients who are at home and as lepers cannot get the chance to go even on x-ray to make sure they need immediate hospitalization or yet don't... It's the criminal... It is the criminal negligence which, unfortunately, causes the death of people at the moment, because they receive help late. And that, colleagues, will be answered by those who have introduced such a procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U29	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U30	Dear colleagues, Let's see... will we ask the question: what is the origin of this draft law? This draft law did not come from the government, it is not an initiative of the government. This is a specific draft law of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption. The emotional statement made by Mr Rancan, the chairman of the Commission, that this is specifically Mr Rancan, so to speak, a child. We, too, from Mr Rancan's speech... I think all of Mr. Rancan's new, so to say, totalitarian parties... colleagues of the coalition saw well what the commission chairman understood about the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. What can be recommended? Somehow to get to know the Constitution, including the part that the Saeima can decide... on the extradition of a Member of the Saeima or any limitation of his rights. But I'd like to find out some of the points raised by Mr. Rancán about who is responsible for what, about the fact that we're overcrowded in hospitals today, about the fact that hospitals call volunteer doctors. So, again. I think it would really be very useful to go through it again. Nine out of ten patients in hospitals (almost nine out of ten) are over 50 years old. So they're mostly seniors who go to hospitals. The hospitals are overcrowded because it is the government that has failed to provide or convince about the vaccination of seniors. It's not guilty, I think, so much not the opposition or anything else... not the society itself, certainly. It was the government that was unable to focus on the vaccination of seniors, but spent time on everything. If we are talking about compulsory vaccination (and I can feel today that it is Mr. Rancán who is the supporter of compulsory vaccination, so to speak, of a cull.) ... When the Ministry of Justice asked the question of compulsory vaccination in April this year, the answer of the Ministry of Justice was, by the way, negative. ‘ No!” said the Ministry of Justice. ‘ No compulsory vaccinations! We are in favour of voluntary vaccination!” If we go further... when there were attempts on the part of the government to motivate something... on the lotterys -- well, it's true about the lotteries -- there were different opinions -- then the same new conservative party stood against to motivate people, including pensioners, through the lottery. And then... If we are talking about the situation in hospitals, is it not the government (with the New Conservative Party) that does not intend to recruit any doctors, no nurse in the next year's budget? Is this not the ruling coalition, which is prepared to allocate several million euro in next year's budget to quotas of Members in a situation where hospitals invite volunteers to help? Why is no Member's quota intended to recruit new nurses and doctors? Who really is responsible for the current situation? The responsibility lies solely with the government and the ruling coalition. With regard to this draft law. I repeat... and I think that from the statement by the author of this law, Mr. Rancāns, everyone could only make sure that this draft law is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. It is a dreadful fear of how much ready the majority of this Saeima is to judge the Constitution in the name of preserving this stability, colleagues. It's really scared, colleagues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U31	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U32	Hello, honourable Members! Congratulations to all our Latvian citizens on Lāčplēsis Day! May all of us succeed, that we may be strong not only against the community, but also when we are in our own country! The talk we are talking about right now is nothing at all. The previous Members have already said that a Member is taking the oath with which he undertakes to comply... The Constitution and undertake to comply with all Latvian laws. If we pass the law that everyone needs to be vaccinated, then everyone needs to. Members... simply a Latvian citizen or citizen... they also need to comply with the law as citizens. If he does not comply with the law, he cannot be a Member, he violates the oath. That's one. Second. I would also like to ask the Members, those who speak very nicely about the destructive work of the opposition, all the time there... in front of the position. Indeed, we are the guilty ones who do not allow us to fight the community? If you remember, during the 20 months that we're working here with all the orders of the community, it was supported... Perhaps one hand’s fingers can count how much opposition proposals were supported. All these proposals were supported - those brought by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Health, other ministries, and supported by the ruling coalition, which almost never speaks of all those orders... In fact, only the opposition speaks. This means that leading politicians did everything that was necessary for the Cabinet of Ministers. This means that you are responsible for those three and a half thousand lost lives in Latvia, for the fact that one and a half thousand patients, co-owners, are in hospitals, for the fact that hospitals were abolished, which was adopted at the time when the Unity came to power... It is estimated that the total number of hospital beds in the Czech Republic amounted to approximately 30 % of the total number of hospital beds in the Czech Republic, while the total number of hospitals in the Czech Republic amounted to approximately 30 % of the total number of hospitals in the Czech Republic. Karin said on July 11, 2019 that we have almost twice as many hospitals as we need. Therefore, we are now stationing patients in corridors, garages, and auxiliary rooms, rather than in normal chambers. At the same time, we have Elizabeth Street 2... which we want to break down, empty spaces, and we cannot equip them. We can't equip ourselves with a moor... We're going to... and we can't even imagine someone needs it. There's no thinking, no state thinking. I call for greater attention to be paid to this. There is another question. Why do we have so many sufferers and so many dead? Let us take our Lithuanian neighbours. In the last two weeks, 247 people died (somewhere there were data), while in Lithuania only 76 people died in two weeks. Three times less died in Lithuania. The question is, why? Answer, please, both the Ministry of Health and leading politicians, those who know this situation. Because we don't... lack of specialists, who can return or bring the balloon with the air that people breathe? That's the indicator. Do we have a very expensive medicine in Latvia? If you want to apply to a specialist, you will have the answer: “Your number is 800.” This means that for three four months you will have to wait, stand in line. But if you want money, then right now, today, there's a line... with the same specialist. Answer me – how can it be free medicine or state-guaranteed medicine! The money at once, today, can be for public money - in just a few months... until you die. But we don't go to doctors when we don't hurt anything. Do I need to go and sign up to all doctors now? Maybe I should sign up with the same gynecologist if I decided that I might need to change my... membership, so I'll have a row in at least three years' time? That's funny, but it really is. Imagine how our country's medicine works for Latvians. The other problem. We are spending a great deal of money on national groups in higher education. If there's... Let's take it for a while, when... Those workers, those specialists in whom we invest public funds, but swear, including the Hippocrates, then, please also apply voluntarily or the state needs to employ them for their most difficult time, so that they increase their specialty. However, they are much better than those students who have just started their first course. We're talking we're almost there... not in war time, but in hot times, when you need help from all the population, not to drag the blanket on everyone's side, that I am against, I need to resist. We're talking a lot, spending time... Only for one or two people. There is now no confidence in our people in the members of the Saeima. And today, it is an indication that we are going through nothing but at the same time not paying attention to what our people need. Yes, we still do not know how the virus is spreading, because there are no indicators of where its high incidence comes from. The Ministry of Health tells us that there are a lot of unvaccinated people, but back years we were not vaccinated at all, and nothing at all - there were only those affected people, both mortality and morbidity, at a different, very low level. Perhaps we also mistreated the fact that we had a very large ban all summer, which was not prohibited, for example, for our neighbours, both Estonians and Lithuanians. Lithuania is now working... Both pedicure and manicure can be made and go to the hairdresser, SPA centres, sports lessons. Unfortunately, we must not do so only because there is an emergency, after the emergency, it is unlikely that even the vaccinated people will be allowed to do so. So the government lied to us that vaccinees would have a green light. We are the same as unvaccinated. When we travel, for example, somewhere abroad, we need a vaccination certificate, we still need to fill in the corporations and perhaps also make an express test, so that there is no unity in the European Union that is needed and recognises. That's what we need to talk about. Of course, these are new challenges - both with the new type of coronavirus delta and with what is happening on the border of our country - but it needs to be ready. So we've all been here for 20 years at least... Whereas no one took care of medicine to make medicine strong. We have strong private medicine. Yes, very good, very high level and very...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U33	Mr Klementyeva, I am very sorry, a little closer to the issue under discussion. We're not looking at the whole medical system right now. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U34	Yeah. Yeah, but it's all connected. Okay. I will continue on this subject. That is why I voted against this separate law when I was in the commission. I was the only one who was. But today I see what is happening in our country, I also call on everyone to vote in favour of this bill, and the sooner we will accept, the sooner it will be... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U35	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U36	Dear President, Honourable Members! It's very short. I would not have spoken, but I was so politely asking some questions that I am not clear about the compatibility of the Constitution with this draft law, but Mr. Rancāns is not saying for some reason that in the Saeima... The Constitutional and Order Round provides for penalties for violations of Members. Then I need to clarify at once, however, so that I know whether to support this draft law or not - what is the law of an unvaccinated Member? Perhaps Mr Rancan can say whether we have a law on compulsory vaccination for all citizens? Has Mr. Ranzan made a law in the Commission? Is the Commission going to accept compulsory vaccination of all residents of the country? If such a law is passed, we could talk about the fact that Members of the Saeima could be punished in some way. We can't push now, so to speak, the wheels up and out of the back. Employers can demand everything in their companies, but we are bound - and Mr Rancana also, in my opinion - by Article 5 which states that the Member of the Saeima is the leader of the people. So our employer is citizens, because the Saeima's explanations, which can be read in the Saeima's library, say that the people in this concept of the Constitution are citizens or voters. The employer is not the Saeima Member, the employer is not the Cabinet of Ministers, the employer is not the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, the employer is not Mr Rancāns. And we don't... The employer is our citizens... having authorised the Member to take care of his or her health, to say, at a distance, to maintain a healthy lifestyle or in any other way. So the employer is a nation. The mandate will be judged by the elections. And I hope... and I also wish you to receive such a mandate next autumn, Mr Rancan, but it will certainly be that we cannot, in any way, treat the Constitution in a natural way. So once again, by clarifying in the Commission, to be clear about the second reading, what specific laws have been violated by unvaccinated Members of the Saeima and how they can be suspended from performing their duties... if the Constitution says that he has made a solemn oath and has also received a hundred percent mandate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U37	The name of Member Regina Lochmele. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U38	Hello! Personally (I will repeat - personally!) I believe that any Member, especially men, who have not vaccinated for the time being, is simply cowardice. Of course, it's not very good to talk to someone personally, but I think today, 11 November, on Lacples' Day, to speak to the Saeima... There's a clear disrespect for the whole society and country on the biker. This vote will not be quite normal. This will be a special vote, because it is a moral vote, whether the Members of the Saeima are prepared to share responsibility both for the ongoing state and for what will happen after 15 November. The group SAVE was very consistent in terms of vaccination, but strongly against forced vaccination. We still believe that all the laws that were adopted with the sole aim of forcing people to vaccinate, even by means of methods such as non-imposition of labour law rules and the possibility of dismissal of people who, for various reasons, and above all of the government itself, have not yet been vaccinated... We count on the fact that after 15 November thousands of Latvians will have a very difficult life - they will be laid off and they will no longer have the means to support their families. At the moment, it is not about our Members remaining without pay, it is just about whether they are prepared to take moral responsibility and feel jointly responsible for everything that happens in the country. Because the opposition, I'm sorry... we are also guilty of what has happened, because we in the Saeima are in the opposition, we are in the minority, we are unable to win our opinion. And that's why it's the least that could happen - to be included in this law. I call on my colleagues from a group to vote in favour. I will personally submit to the second reading a proposal to further complicate Members' lives by introducing self-tests, similar to those in schools. So let's first try what we're gonna do to our kids in schools. I very much hope that all my colleagues will vote in favour of this proposal, despite the fact that it would of course be politically advantageous to vote against. And again we shall be punished and called, and so on. But now, you know, there are times. If you only think about your political future, you will stop being human. This applies to Members of any party. Right now, the voter's opinion may not be so decisive... for your future, if you consider yourself intelligent people. I wish you good cooperation with your conscience. I call for the vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U39	The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U40	Dear President, Dear colleagues, I am one of the members of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption and I am also quite strongly opposed to the further progress of this draft law. And not because I support some anti-vaccination campaign. I myself have vaccinated in solidarity with the public and care for the safety of colleagues so as not to spread this disease further. But there is one important and, in my opinion, the wrong trend towards which this... process. First of all, about what colleagues have mentioned - that nothing is mentioned in the sentence of the law about all the experts who took part... including the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, which strongly opposed such a view. We know that the composition of the Saeima is in fact a mirror of society. If this law now wants to ensure that one hundred percent of all members of the Saeima are vaccinated, then it means that both the government and the ruling coalition have decided that one hundred percent of all residents of Latvia should be vaccinated, regardless of whether they are ill or not, but only one hundred percent of the vaccination can be saved from this pandemic. It is a pity that none of the experts talks that a pandemic can also be stopped with other methods (which has been talked about and talked about since spring) - both prevention measures and therapeutic measures - by combining them accordingly. The main and only vaccine at the moment is vaccination. In spring, he promised that vaccination would save everyone - different age, different beliefs and so on... population layers. It turned out... We believed in science, it turned out to be wrong. Science acknowledged this, and if there was this set level in spring - that the crowd's immunity will rise to 70 percent - then no one is talking about it now. This means that, too, it is not clear to citizens what is the border when this rate of vaccination pressure will relax. This leads to the conclusion that one hundred per cent vaccinations will be carried out by force. Specifically on this law. It seems to me that this law sets a precedent, as colleagues have already pointed out, that, let us assume, in the minds of the ruling coalition, there is an idea of a very crazy idea - let us assume that men should not be present at the Saeima sitting and decide that men should be used now as minisworts. Perhaps someone will have nothing to do with it, maybe someone will find it enticing, but such a possibility that the interests of the ruling group are changed in the interests of the Constitution and Members are forced to act differently cannot be ruled out. I propose to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption as an elemental solution - to make this parliamentary platform a hybrid version. We have grown up across Europe that we have the most advanced e-government across Europe... Either, almost all over the world. We have said a lot about what we can and how we can. In a conversation with IT specialists, they also admitted that it is possible, simply do not have such an order. In order not to “fly” with these laws, which balance on the border of violation of the Satversme, which hindered the solution of this issue in the normal way of IT technology? Yes, we are also in the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission... Rancāns, the head of the commission, told about the fact that the legal technique or legal norms are standing below the political will. Strangely, the slogan is that the political will is beyond everything. Political will may also vary depending on the membership of the party, membership of the coalition and so on. There is therefore fear that this political will may change from the parliamentary term to the parliamentary term and also from the change in the ruling coalition. That is why I propose such a solution, as is technically possible. Unfortunately, it was not heard, and it took place further “training” with this law that... Well, I'm not a lawyer, but it is clear from lawyers and specialists that this is not really relevant to the Constitution. I do not agree that unvaccinated Members are to blame for the deaths of those who are ill. I do not agree with the fact that those people who cannot get a breath right now, say so, and go to vaccination are guilty of something. No, people have been driven... People have been terrified, people are not sure what will happen if... And that is not explained enough. It is easy to say: if you get any side effects and you have dangerous problems after these subsites, the country will compensate you. Let us remember one thing: every one of us has one life, and if health is damaged, it will not be able to wake up, it will not be able to restore with the money that you have given, which the country will give. So that - everyone at this point thinks of himself, no matter how loud it is. Yeah, because of this medical manipulation, everyone thinks about himself. And we come back to showing Members an example. I have shown this by my example, and I can tell my constituents, in my eyes, that I am in favour of vaccination; I am in favour of it being carried out on a voluntary basis and not as it is now. All this has been turned so that vaccinees can enjoy everything, while those who do not receive the vaccine lose their jobs, income and the rest. And this disaster is unfortunately spreading. And people take themselves even more desperately, because it matters to everyone what happens after the 15th day. I therefore call on my fellow Members, however, not to direct this law further, but to focus on other legislation that would be important for our citizens to expect on 15 November, not with horror, but with a certain hope that the government will have understood that there are different ideas for people, and not all are prepared to do this medical manipulation of themselves and to be the first in the statistical line... in a row that has very serious health problems following this manipulation. Colleagues! I call for the 'no' vote and for attention to be given to issues that are more important to society than this draft law, which, in fact, does not say anything. This is an attempt by the ruling coalition to limit the votes of the opposition before the important vote on the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U41	The name to Member Boris Cilevič. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U42	Dear colleagues, Here a number of Members who took part in the debate began with it: 'I am in favour of vaccination'. But, I'm sorry, I don't believe you because - what will be the conclusions of the Latvian people who listen to this broadcast? What do they remember? The need to play sports in order to avoid the disease of the community requires more breathing of fresh air and so on. People will learn that vaccines are dangerous; that vaccination is perhaps even more dangerous than it is for the community itself. Indeed, colleagues, we look like two-to-one. On the one hand, we seem to be calling for vaccination, but on the other, we do not want it ourselves, we are looking for all kinds of paths ourselves, we are sticking to every detail to avoid it. If this draft law is not supported, it will be a very clear signal to Latvian society - we do not need to vaccinate. And people will remember it, not your hypocritical reservations: yes, I am at all “for” but, know, yes and yes and yes. So... Yes, it is not really possible to agree that the government made huge mistakes and that time was lost. We are now facing this problem precisely because we have failed to achieve the desired level of vaccination during the summer. And why do vaccinated people become increasingly ill? It is very well known to all those who follow scientific opinions and discussions on this issue. In other words, immunity is temporarily weaker for both those who are crushed and those who are vaccinated. And that's why, every day, we have more vaccinated people who are no longer immune to the virus. And that's why these people get sick. And those people who have all kinds of other serious diseases also die... And it will continue if we do not achieve the required level of vaccination (and now we have to talk about the level of revaccination). So what kind of signal are we going to send to our constituents? That is the most important issue. Yes, in fact, we are talking about voluntary vaccination, and everyone is saying: yes, yes, we are talking about voluntary vaccination. And now we have the opportunity to prove this in practice - to show that we, as Members of the Saeima, voluntarily make its commitment that we are all vaccinating. And that is exactly what we will show to the people of Latvia, it is very obvious that nothing happens to us, because the horns do not grow for us. And in general, all those anti-scientific theories about Chips and so on - they are absolutely untruthful. If we fear ourselves and if we avoid vaccination ourselves, then we will never convince Latvian people to vaccinate. That's why I'm calling... I will be voting in favour, and I call on all those who feel responsible for the implementation of voluntary vaccination in Latvia to also vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U43	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Rancan, what else will you say?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U44	On behalf of the Commission, I will say a word for the debate. Thank you, colleagues. I will not add anything at this point; we still have a second reading in front of us. I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U45	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On temporary additional requirements for Members of the Saeima to work in the sittings of the Saeima and its commissions”! Please, let's vote! For -62, for -14, for -2. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U46	Yeah, thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals according to the commission is one hour, so by 3 p.m. today. So - 11 November 2021 at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U47	Yeah, and consideration... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U48	And the second reading - the next Saeima in an extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U49	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is at 15.00 on 11 November this year and the next sitting of the Saeima. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” submitted by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that it be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. We are starting to examine the draft law at first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Linda Medne. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U50	Hello, honourable chairman of the Saeima sitting, colleagues and present! The Commission for Education, Culture and Science has submitted draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”. Let me introduce you to the present... the process of setting up university councils and the reasons why this draft law is necessary. The Legislator of the Law on Higher Education, which entered into force on 16 August 2021, has provided for the establishment of university councils by 30 November 2021. The following actions have been carried out so far: Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No. 636 “Procedures for the selection, nomination and withdrawal of the members of the Council of the State University, led by the Cabinet of Ministers; Regulations for the selection of the candidates of the Councils of the State University under the supervision of the Ministry of Education and Science have been approved; in parallel work on the establishment of the staff of this Commission will continue. At the same time... At present, organisations are asking for a longer period to delegate their representatives to the selection panel. From 25 October to 4 November 2021, regulations drawn up for each university by the Ministry of Education and Science on the selection of candidates for the post of members of the Council directed by the Cabinet of Ministers shall be discussed at meetings of the Senate of the state universities. From 29 October to 12 November 2021, each selection panel shall approve at its first meeting the regulations on the selection of candidates and the advertising of candidates for vacancies and the selection of candidates. Time limit for application - 10 days. During this time, several proposals from the members of the selection panel have been received that it is necessary to extend the application period and the Ministry of Education and Science supports it conceptually. Indicatively, in mid-November 2021 or later, if the application deadline is extended, the selection process will start. There are several risks in this process that may prolong the selection process (e.g. insufficient number of candidates). In view of this, it is necessary to extend by means of a draft law the establishment of a university council and therefore its start-up period from 30 November 2021 to 31 January 2022 at the latest. Until then, in state universities, certain council functions are performed by the Senate, which ensures the continuity of university functions. At the same time, the time limits laid down for the performance of other tasks included in the transitional provisions of the Law on Higher Education should be extended. Taking into account that the Statute of the Electoral Commission for the Meeting of the Constitution is approved not only by the Senate of the University, but also by the Council, the time limits laid down in paragraph 63 of the Transitional Provisions should also be extended by two months for the election of the meeting and for the drafting of the documents referred to in this paragraph. The Commission proposes that the draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U51	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” as urgent! Please, let's vote! For - 83, for - no, for - 1. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U52	Thank you for the vote. In accordance with Rule 86 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the committee requests that the draft law be examined at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U53	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U54	Head of sitting! Colleagues and colleagues! I will not debate the fact that we should not be dealt with as a matter of urgency or that we should not be dealt with immediately and today... once again, but I will take the opportunity to remind you that, in the context of the adoption of amendments to the Law on Higher Education, we had a long discussion, not only in the Commission, but also in the Saeima. And those who represented the education sector pointed out several times, asked several times, and the Commission also asked whether the timetables set by the Ministry of Education and Science are realistic in terms of time. The people of the sector also called for a revision of the dates. And here's the result. Let me not say loudly how, perhaps, all these amendments should be dealt with today as a matter of urgency, because the members of their commission have heard that in fact, the restaurants are also responsible for the fact that the councils have not even been announced in some universities... or one or two... essential... This time. But I draw attention to the fact that this is a really significant error in the industry's restaurant, responsible restaurant. And here too, looking at the... urgency... time limits adopted at second reading, commission people and also the people of the industry at this moment... Not the representatives of the restaurant... asked about the enforceability of the deadline. And I would like to draw attention to the fact that perhaps we are going to go back and change these conditions. I would have expected that the relevant ministry would admit to some extent its mistakes rather than write them off for the reasons mentioned above, that, for example, people do not apply because Latvia has limited human resources... a limited number of persons who could carry out such activities as members of the Board. I call on us to support both the fact that we are looking at today and the fact that we are adopting today, because such changes... in reality, in nature... necessary. I would like to say that this is a current error, which is currently not only by the Ministry of Education and Science, but also by the Saeima... in the draft laws submitted... including - about the previous debate... continue the adoption of draft laws of a low quality and, subsequently, the urgent correction thereof. But I repeat: I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U55	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, what would you say?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U56	In accordance with the third paragraph of Rule 92 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, we call for the deadline for the submission of proposals not to be fixed and for the draft law to be adopted as a matter of urgency at second reading to be examined immediately after its adoption at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U57	So we are voting in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Higher Education at first reading! Please call me! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please open a section on the procedure. Are Members against this when we look at this bill in the second, final, reading? Please log in. Members have not applied. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Higher Education" at second, final, final reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The law is passed. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. And the first is the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection”, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U58	Dear President, Honourable Members! The draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection” is required with amendments to include recommendations and solutions adopted for the operational prevention of the economic consequences of Covid-19 in business and employment support. Thus, on 14 October, a solution was supported to support taxpayers whose economic activity is fully prohibited due to the state emergency, and on 28 October the draft law was intended to include a provision allowing corporate tax payers for this year - 2021. - and not to apply the national tax for the following year... the anti-avoidance rate, including a new provision providing for the possibility to pay personal income tax payments from income from economic activities voluntarily in 2022, as well as to restore support to economic operators and other economic operators. There are also certain State aid rules and tax rules... the recipient of the wage subsidies... in order to ensure a uniform tax regime for all groups of persons receiving wage subsidies. Some specific examples to know that for taxpayers who are unable to carry out their main economic activity at present, until 30 June 2023, after the submission of the application, the tax payments administered by the State Revenue Service during the emergency period can be divided into different ways and require some support; therefore, payment may be made the following month, when the exceptional situation ends. Well, here's also to grant an extension of the deadline for payment of taxes for late payment of taxes. It specifies that the taxpayer shall submit a reasoned request within 15 days of the date on which the payment is due. The SRS lists all those operators who do not need any support, in particular credit institutions, financial institutions, different tax payers and those who have not deliberately cooperated with the State Revenue Service. This draft law also regulates the procedure in which this tax will be paid to part-time workers, self-employed workers... the amounts of aid, let us say, and the recipients of wages in micro-enterprises... and cooperation... the procedures for reporting by the SRS to the European Commission. So I am also calling, colleagues, to support and accept urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U59	So let us first vote on urgency. Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” (No. 1222/Lp13) recognition as urgent! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U60	Mr. Pimenov has applied.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U61	Yes, so we have a debate on first reading. Name to Member Igor Pimenov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U62	Dear colleagues, ( The sound is broken.) ... Member of the Commission, unfortunately, for personal reasons, I did not attend the last sitting when this draft law was examined at first reading. That's what I'm asking you to apologize for. However, I will take this opportunity to ask the rapporteur a question, because it really is not clear what has been written here. In particular, Article 5 of the draft law, which adds Article 15, paragraph 2.4. The introductory words of this paragraph are as follows: “The State Revenue Service publishes on its website”, but the draft law records this addition, which is now being offered to your attention, namely, to supplement the part that I have named after the words “the amount of aid” with the words “as well as the list of self-employed persons and patent payers who have received the support specified in this Article... and the total amount of aid granted to each self-employed and patentpayer”. Question to the rapporteur. Perhaps this issue was discussed at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission meeting. With this addition, do we not violate the data protection rules that already exist on a daily basis in our society and in our legislation? I don't understand... either. You see, if we publish on the website the names of commercial companies that have received support from the state - this is one story, but when the actual names of natural persons are published - a completely different history. I think that would not be right. Moreover, I don't know how to recognize different natural persons, whose names and surnames will be similar... Well, identical. ID number, right? But it's forbidden, that's not what we do. Then the question is really about the content of this proposal. Your comment, Mr Kirstein? Perhaps one expert can express himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U63	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Kirstein. ( Pause) We can't hear you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U64	You can't hear me?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U65	Now we hear it. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U66	Yeah, nothing changed. It is a pity that Mr Pimenov was not sitting and did not ask this question. In particular, let us say that nothing was discussed in such a plan, but now, let us say, the publication of these personal codes and everything, I think: although this will be urgent, we will have time for proposals, and when we look at the second reading, we could indeed invite a representative from the Data State Inspection to clarify what Mr Pimenova said. I therefore call for support now at first reading, and perhaps indeed then, at the second meeting of the Commission, we will clarify whether this is a violation or not. I'm specifically at the moment... we did not see it, and I cannot respond here either.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U67	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U68	Proposals - by 22 November (it is Monday), by 5 p.m. And the second reading could be on 25 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U69	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals - 22 November at 5 p.m. and consideration by the Saeima - 25 November. Draft law on the construction of external land border infrastructure, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U70	Hello, Madam President. Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Sitting viewers and listeners! The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption has examined at first reading the draft law on the construction of external land border infrastructure. In the Commission, we listened to the Ministers of the Interior, ministerial officials and the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. The draft law was designed to ensure the rapid and effective construction of the infrastructure necessary for the protection of the external land border by establishing a specific legal framework. The draft law provides for the division of responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior, other ministries, state institutions and capital companies in the preparation, design, construction and supervision of the construction border. It provides for a higher priority for the harmonisation of border decisions across all public administrations and for greater involvement and cooperation between public authorities. The draft law provides for a division of responsibilities for the construction of external land borders. The State Border Guard and the State Security Agency will be responsible for marking, measuring the border area, and settling property issues. The national guarantee agency will be responsible for setting user requirements for the development of technical specifications. State capital company “Latvijas valsts meži” in cooperation with the National Agency for Security for Deforestation. The state capital company “State real estate” will be responsible for the management, organisation, monitoring and procurement of works necessary for construction. In order to monitor and coordinate the progress of the construction of the external border infrastructure, a monitoring committee for the construction of the external border infrastructure will be set up, which will be chaired and organised by the Ministry of the Interior. It will be attended by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Transport and Agriculture, the State Border Guard, the State Security Agency, the State Forests of Latvia, the Latvian Geospatial Information Agency, the State Real Estate and the Latvian State Radio and Television Centre. The law is scheduled to enter into force on the day after the announcement. The Commission unanimously supported the urgency of the draft law and its adoption at first reading. I ask the Saeima to support the recognition of the draft law as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U71	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on the construction of external land border infrastructure! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U72	Please support the draft law at first reading by the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U73	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the construction of external land border infrastructure! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was approved at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U74	The time limit for the submission of proposals shall be one hour. And look... request from the committee - to consider the next Saeima extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U75	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals is set at 15.24 on 11 November this year and the deadline for consideration by the Saeima at its meeting is 11 November. Please open a section on the procedure. Please apply for Members Julia Stepanenko. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U76	Colleagues! We are now fulfilling all the rules that apply to remote work. Thus, we do not go into society knowingly and do not come into contact with people. We are complying with the government rules. But I would like to inform you that the operation of the e-portal, namely the e-signature portal, is currently disrupted and can be verified by all colleagues. As a result, the submission of proposals for draft laws, including the draft law on which the Saeima has just voted (in relation to the temporary duties of Members), is currently disturbed. I therefore call for a different deadline for the submission of proposals, because for technical reasons Members who, listening to the government, work remotely cannot submit their proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-11-PT13-2317-U77	We do not have the opportunity to return again and to vote on the timing of the submission. The agenda for the second remote emergency session of 11 November has therefore been examined. The registration of the presence of Members has also expired. I closed the second remote emergency sitting on November 11. Please follow the information from the Saeima on the follow-up.
