ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U1	Dear colleagues, The agenda for the second remote emergency session of 4 March 2021 will begin to be considered. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Immigration” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? The vote has been requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law on Immigration to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! On - 54, against - 19, refrains - not. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Insurance and Reinsurance” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 952/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission with responsibility for the Commission. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On disposal of part of real estate at Vilkupurva iela 26, Riga, for public needs – construction of the European standard line “Rail Baltica” in the corridor of “Rail Baltica” via Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania” be submitted to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance” be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Law on the application of exclusions to qualifying financial transactions” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Restoration and Resolution of Activities of Credit Institutions and Investment firms” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Insurance and Reinsurance” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 959/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission with responsibility for the Commission. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Insolvency” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, as well as the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the Member Andra Skride, Daces Rukšāne-Ščipčinska, Krista Baumane, Andas Čakša, Normunds Gunna, Inese Voika, Ilmars Dūris and Ieva Krapāne be referred to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is a commission responsible. Two Members have applied for this draft law. So... In writing, before the sitting, the Member Andris Skride has applied to speak, asking him to speak "on" the transmission of this draft law. ‘ For” said Andris Skride, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U2	Good morning, Madam President, colleagues, listeners. Yes, the nature of the amendment that we have drawn up as Members. As you are all aware, it is not mandatory, under the current rules, to indicate the ingredients in the list of ingredients for alcoholic beverages and the nutrition declaration. The fact that we're on food... nutrition... is already as mandatory... I think it's already become itself... It's for granted. But on alcohol we can only read about how often it will... how it will taste, what the taste will taste to like... Attractive customers, or perhaps even more, and nutritional value is unfortunately not indicated there. I can mention that the World Health Organisation has adopted a European Action Plan to reduce harmful alcohol consumption for 2012-2020. And one of the most important elements of this plan was that it is necessary to indicate on the label ingredients that affect human health, including the amount of calories. The World Health Organization stressed that it was the amount of calories that would be one of the most important... which must also be indicated on the label. This action plan was signed and approved at the time (in 2011) by 53 countries, including the Member States of the European Union, but, as we know, unfortunately most countries, too, say that this action plan has failed under the influence of the alcohol industry lobby. This has been achieved most successfully by Ireland - already... not already, but only by issuing a law in 2018, that calories and ingredients should be indicated. And a few more countries, but this introduction goes very slowly. What do consumers say? In consumer surveys, most also say that they want to see what is then on the... What ingredients and calories are in alcohol then, because we often imagine that it may be just ethanol. But as one example: one glass of wine - it is actually equivalent in terms of calories to one chocolate bar. And, of course, all the health effects... Of course, the Commission must continue the discussion on what will then be indicated, whether only calories or, let us say, harmful - just as we have cigarettes. Let us continue the discussions with the Commission. I call on colleagues to support and refer this draft law to the Commission on the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U3	Mrs. Svekov, do you want to speak 'no'?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U4	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U5	“Pret” has applied for a speech by Member Lubova Švecova. Please! The name is for you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U6	Thank you. Colleagues! This time I will allow to compare Latvia with Estonia again. And in what context? In Estonia, in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, the only strict regime that had been set was said to have been denied alcohol trafficking from 21.00 a.m. at night, and also a ban on the sale of alcohol by local authorities... On the territory of Estonia. It was one of the consistent restrictions imposed on the whole territory in Estonia in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. Instead, Latvia had not in any way restricted or restricted the sale of alcohol. On the contrary, the Latvian Government and officials supported the accelerated regulation for alcohol sales on the Internet. I believe that this proposal, which is being proposed by Members, distracts attention that the real and real problem - alcohol consumption - in Latvia, which takes a rather high place at the level of the countries of the European Union and also, after drinking for the previous period, was the first one between the Baltic countries, between Estonia and Lithuania, will not be resolved. Why? I read and also took note of the opinion written by the Association of the Alcohol Industry of Latvia on the proposed amendments, and I believe that in no case the indication on the label of excess calories related to excessive alcohol consumption will not solve health problems, because all this comes together with a number of other issues and a number of other problems. In particular, in order to ensure an effective reduction of alcohol consumption, the Ministry of Health should not ask the manufacturer to write labels which might indicate that, for example, “Riga Black Balsam” has 13 or more ingredients, but think about how to prevent us from drinking and that we have such a large amount of alcohol consumption, especially in view of the Covid-19 crisis. It is obvious that people drink more alcohol. Statistics which are publicly available shall show this. Will this solution proposed by Members reduce alcohol consumption? Will the solution proposed by the Members reduce the obesity of the population because they are prevented from doing indoor sports, as was allowed in Estonia? Will this restriction in any way improve the health of the population without adopting guidelines on alcohol consumption and health? By the way, where is the health guidelines for reducing alcohol use... a reduction in consumption in Latvia? They should have been accepted for a long time; they have still not been adopted. Instead of a realistic systemic approach and addressing serious problems, Members propose imposing an additional administrative burden on producers without globally addressing deep, perverse disorders and problems. That is why I am not going to take part in this farce and ask other Members not to support this proposal either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U7	One Member has spoken for, one against. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks” to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against - 3, it's not. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection” (No. ) (a.k.a. So in writing Ivars Zarins applied to speak against the draft law before the meeting. Mr. Zarins, if you want to speak against, apply again in the system! So, 'no'... the name of Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U8	Good afternoon, everybody! Today we are offered to take part in an absurd theatre organised by the new government, more precisely, we are being offered to legalise it again. Why is it an absurd theatre? For those for whom it has not yet become clear. The government decides on the current restrictions in relation to the prevalence of Covide infection, but still has not been able to respond, or at least demonstrate, at least the least understanding of the impact of the already adopted specific restrictions on the epidemiological situation and the efficacy of exposure. Yesterday we had a meeting of the Appeals Commission, where we dealt with the request... The validity of the decisions made by the government of Krišjānis Kariņš... the justification for the measures taken to control the disease. The respondents were unable to say anything about the impact of these specific restrictions on the epidemiological situation and the effectiveness of their effects. In fact, there is no reason, but, excuse me, empty embarrassment. However, this now does not prevent the government from imposing a specific obligation on others to assess their impact on the epidemiological situation by monitoring compliance with these restrictions... and depending on how these restrictions are fulfilled... This evaluation is the responsibility of the government, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no. The government expects that the establishment will be competent to assess the implementation of the epidemiological safety measures of the internal control system for the provision of economic services, and whether this may cause immediate and substantial damage to public health interests. Go on. Depending on the person's competent assessment of the ongoing... impact on the epidemiological situation... the person concerned will be entitled to take a decision on the suspension of the operation of the undertaking for up to seven days. It remains even more interesting in this bill. The decision referred to in the first subparagraph shall take effect at the time of notification and shall be enforceable without delay. Determined, isn't it? Goodbye, government! Show a decisive and strong will. That is what I would like to hope for, but explain to someone how this legal provision is actually intended to be enforced? By saying that economic operators - the responsible person - are obliged to receive this decision? Well, she got this decision, and what's next? This businessman will rather not have the power to take a decision at such a level that affects the whole company's activities, to close it down. How will you ensure this? Are you gonna put the armor on? Shut the door? How will you ensure that this decision is passed on to the addressee if it suddenly turns out that this person is not present. Moreover, it is right to think about what will happen after this decision is taken. Most likely, the opinion of the businessman and the policeman about the merits of this decision, its adequacy will differ and the businessman will rightly contest it in court. That is his right. How will a country be able to prove the validity of its decisions? What evidence should be provided by the decision maker so that a decision on the closure of a company's activities, serious infringements can be considered justified and then all Latvian taxpayers should not pay for the consequences of this decision or any businessman's irresponsibility? There will not be enough one photo with a person without a basket or mask. Therefore, the same level of enforcement and the responsibilities that you now wish to demand and expect from economic operators, the government should first apply to itself, to its actions and decisions. As long as the government is unable to do so, the Saeima should refrain from deciding on these government initiatives, rather than covering its failure and incompetentness. This would motivate the government to finally start taking meaningful, reasoned and appropriate decisions. What is interesting in all of this that I noticed! This has been prepared by our smart and determined Ministry of Economy. And I want to ask the Minister for Economics and the Ministry here: why are you not as determined about the issue of irregularities as regards the relationship with the OIC? Why, when you catch some OIC fraudster on the ground with obvious irregularities and you have documented, proven about millions of frauds, you say: "No, no, no, we must not decide, we must not touch them. It'll be their business... interference in their business.’ Why can't you do it there, but here you offer it? Colleagues! I call on us not to support such government initiatives until the government itself can justify its decisions, to show that they understand what they are doing, and that it is not simply the current irresponsible or fear show they are dealing with, which will then be costly for our society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U9	Member Juris Rancāns has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U10	Good afternoon, colleagues! For my part, I am not excited about this draft law. That is something that we will also assess very carefully in the Commission - whether it is at all to be supported or not to be supported and so on. But I applied more... Of course, this should be passed on to the Commission. What I wanted to say at this point - I wanted to personally invite Mr Zariņš to the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission on Wednesdays and to listen to the Infectologists about the effectiveness of the restrictions. Mr Zarins, you are currently misleading the public by saying that it is not clear to anyone what the effectiveness of these restrictions is. I invite you to watch the record of the last two or three weeks' commission. There are very clear curves, which are in Latvia, which... In which... At the beginning of this community wave, which came in early December, the second... This has first been halted by these restrictions. And then... managed to reach the curve slowly, but with a sustained decline... these diseases. While in your praised Estonia, the curve is now simple in the sky - literally! If you look at the timetable that was shown to us, then there is literally in heaven. Our test... The number of positive tests against those tested is currently around 7.7 percent, with 17 percent on average in Estonia. You know, they're now in a policy... Of course, they risked, but at the moment they have come to where they are, and they are forced to make exactly the same decisions as in Latvia. They still accept them softer at the moment. We will see this development, what the epidemiological situation will be. And I let things go on there. In our case, these restrictions have ensured, above all, a reduction of the second wave, a suspension and a slow, slow reduction. We do not need to say, Mr Zarins, that no one understands what the government is doing and how these restrictions work. Thank you, colleagues, for your attention. I call for this to be passed on to the Commission and, accordingly, in the Commission, we will be very careful in this. As I said earlier, I am not excited at what it contains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U11	Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on the Management of communicable Diseases” (No. 962/Lp13) transfer to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! For - 66, for - 22, for - 1. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the Member Viktors Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Janina Jalinska, Jānis Dūklavs, Armanda Krauze, Edgars Tatars, Māra Kučinska, Raimonds Bergmanis, Jānis Vacāns and Gundars Many’s draft law “Amendments to the Saeima Election Law” be referred to the National Administration and Municipal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U12	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Good afternoon, dear colleagues! We have already submitted this bill for the second time, this time in an improved version, and we have taken into account the recommendations made to the Commission last time. We have also made appropriate amendments to both the wording and the text of the draft law, but still retain its substance. The aim of the draft law is to promote turnout in the Saeima elections, and it is aimed specifically at those who currently live abroad who have no opportunity to vote in favour of candidates representing the electoral district from which the resident has left. Other electoral groups not belonging to the Riga polling district must also vote for candidates of Members presented in Riga according to the current procedure. Last time, when presenting this draft law, we also set a maximum threshold for the number of members elected from Riga; today we have removed it from the draft law. We call for this draft law to be submitted to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government so that work on the draft law can be started so that the law can enter into force already a year before the next Saeima elections. So, colleagues, I call for support. Being is very... in a way simple but difficult to technically deliverable, but I think it can be dealt with. The Central Electoral Commission has stated this. International practice also shows that we are here in Estonia, that practice already exists and can be done. Let us create a system so that Latvians living abroad, our citizens, can vote for the region from which they have left - whether it is Kurzeme or it is Zemgale or it is Vidzeme - so that these votes do not automatically fall into Riga. At the time this norm was established, the number of people leaving Riga was significantly smaller, and the number of mandates that were re-allocated in favour of the capital was significantly smaller. It was one or two mandates. Now these are already eight, maybe even nine mandates are about to be... It would be fair for these people to have the opportunity, thereby also encouraging the voter's activity, voting in favour of the constituency from which he left. If it's Latgale... I think, too, that last time, when we looked at the Commission, we heard a reference to studies that people in the Diaspora, people living abroad, feel more connected precisely with the place where they left, so we also call for the preconditions for citizens to vote abroad in favour of the area from which they left. Like now, there is an opportunity if a citizen has moved... For example, a person living in Latvia has moved to Riga, then he can travel quietly to Kurzeme, to Latgale or Vidzeme, and vote for those candidates who he knows and who represent exactly the party from where he comes. For people living in Latvia, this can be done – sitting in public transport or car, leaving, and there are no restrictions. For foreign Latvians it is in principle... In essence, the only option, if you want to use something like this, is to climb in transport, plane, to go back to Latvia and so go to their constituency. Such a choice cannot be made within the electoral district, and the draft law we are proposing provides for the creation of such a possibility, which would be absolutely normal. As an example I mentioned Estonia, where this is already the case, there are other countries that introduce this justice in a different way, even if, for example, in the lottery order, when, before every election, there is a lot out of it, which constituency will have these votes in order to achieve justice on this issue. I call for support, for this draft law to be passed on to the Commission and for a debate to be launched within the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U13	Thank you. Colleagues, are there any objections to passing the draft law on to the commission? Members have not requested a vote. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the Member Jūlija Stepanenko, Lubova Švekova, Edgars Tatar, Karina Sprūde, Evija Papules, Vjačeslava Dombrovska, Alda Gobzema, Andra Kazinovska, Armanda Krauze and Viktora Valaiņš submit their draft law to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U14	Dear colleagues, Our... Parents who are trying to combine work with children’s training have already reached a critical point in the burning process. It is not a secret that several professions are being burned at the moment, yes, but we are also talking about parents who have to balance on the border - work, home, children's training - and all this must be done as well as possible, because responsibility for the consequences... for the child’s education prevents the parents from relaxing and throwing the brooms into the shrubs. This draft law is intended to support parents who cannot combine the training of the child with their job duties which they cannot carry out remotely. Undoubtedly, a very large number of parents, who combine their work duties remotely with their children's training, are likely to worry about the day and the night because they have to sit down at night, work when they can do it, because they have to teach their children at least six hours in a day. So it's an hour... the hours of distance learning, and then there's still a homework, and all this has to be done, because it's all... The child has to help. They too need help, and we will certainly talk about improving their situation. This particular draft law is a call to help those parents who cannot combine work remotely with children's training, because the proposed and current 60 per cent of social contributions cannot constitute a serious cover in a situation where it is necessary to choose between work and children's training. The family budget is suffering very strongly in this case. If we compare the situation with that of a parent's allowance, which is granted by way of parental education up to the age of one or more years and up to one and a half years, yes, in this case, the parent's allowance is received at 60 per cent, but let us not forget at any time that each month these parents also receive a child's allowance, which is a fixed amount, and which also helps to cover the difference between the unpaid salary that the parent would have received if he had worked. Therefore, too, very many parents, dear colleagues, do not choose to resolve this situation by leaving the job temporarily to work and sit next to the child and help him in his training, because it is simply impossible to afford it. The family budget cannot afford this. Borrowed loans, public utilities, real estate tax payments, which will immediately come to all and have not been abolished in very many cities... It's not over, it's all on your parents' shoulders. Therefore, our proposal is to ensure that these 80 percent are as close as possible to the salary that parents do not receive if they remain with their children. So this call is for parents who cannot combine work with children's training, and I would be happy to hear the reasons of our colleague Andra Skride why he has asked for a vote and why he does not want to support those parents who cannot now choose to help the child because they cannot afford it because of their family budget. I would very much like to hear Mr Skride's explanation. Let Mr Skride not hide and tell us why he wants to vote against and why he always opposes babies, parents, and pregnant women. Please, Mr. Skride, tell me! I call on all other colleagues to vote 'no' if a vote is requested. Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U15	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance” to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! On - 38, against - 48, refraining - 8. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. Colleagues, it's time for a break. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U16	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We will continue to see the agenda. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 communicable Law” submitted by the Member Lubova Švekova, Edgars Tauka, Julia Stepanenko, Karina Sprūdes, Evija Papules, Vjačeslava Dombrovska, Alda Gobzema, Andra Kazinovska, Armands Krauze and Viktors Valaiņš (No. 965 Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the Commission responsible. Do Members have objections? Mrs. Schvekov, are you going to talk about it?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U17	Yes, “for”.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U18	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U19	Thank you, colleagues. The draft law provides for an obligation to provide children and young people with sports lessons. Now, on the grounds. Now I understand why Latvia has gained such a wide range of conspiracy theories, especially Big Pharma theory. Why? When looking at and analysing the decisions taken by the government, dealing with the crisis caused by Covid-19, conclusions can be drawn: the Latvian Government and the public administration have not been able to provide open and understandable information about the decisions taken and their quality. The Latvian government and officials have not ensured sufficient and timely availability of vaccines for Latvian citizens. Instead, only one manufacturer of the vaccine has been hijacked and the government has refused to buy a Pfizer vaccine. In order to ensure the involvement of the Institute of Family Doctors in the vaccination process and to establish a clear, understandable and accessible vaccination procedure on this platform, the government has set up an PR agency called the "Vacation Bureau". And now, for Estonia, specifically Mr Rancan. The Estonian Government understands both that they must be balanced with adequate financial coverage for citizens by introducing restrictions so that they are able to survive within the limits, and that public administration must be geared towards ensuring the basic needs and fundamental rights of people, including through the introduction of restrictions on the prevalence of the Covid-19 pandemic. When making decisions, they must be sound and balanced in order to balance and less harm to the economy, the psychological, physiological, emotional and mental health of society. This was not ensured in Latvia. The introduction of increasingly stringent and stricter requirements and restrictions did not lead to a reduction in the level of the disease. The death rate in Latvia is one of the highest in the European Union. What balanced, thoughtful and effective restrictions can we now talk about? In the public space more and more information on psychological and psycho-emotional problems of children and young people is emerging. Experts are alarming. Awesome statements about increasing stress and stress come from parents. The Ministry of Health has also found an opportunity to increase the funding of the teen resource centre for this year as part of the existing funding. The demand for this service has increased due to mood disorders, including mild to moderate depression and anxiety disorders, occurring in adolescents 18 to... from 11 to 18 years of age due to the Covid-19 pandemic. This may lead to suicide or even increased risk of suicide over time. Information received from the Ministry of Health. What is more important today: to continue the discussion on the restoration of safe sports activities for children and young people or to invest one million EUR 31 876 in the creation of a new civil service called "Pedagogical Psychological Support Service"? The majority of Members supported the draft decision on the task for the Cabinet of Ministers to ensure continuity of children and youth sports classes already on January 28th. Opponents pointed out that this will finally happen, but discussions are still ongoing. Our children are in isolation, in distance learning, are under stress, are unable to communicate with teenagers and with children of their age, and this also affects their health. What's the next step? The government will spend money traveling rehabilitation centres to psychologists, psychotherapists? Who will pay, Mr. Ranzan, for the psychological, psycho-emotional... Or perhaps also suicide to those children who are now denied access, sports, and normal development? What will answer for possible obesity and other health problems caused by the absence of physical activity? I am asking for support for this draft law and for once to take decisions in a balanced, balanced and truly learn from the experience of colleagues in Estonia and Lithuania, where the restrictions adopted are ensured in a balanced and balanced way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U20	Mr. Zarins, will you speak 'no'?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U21	Yes, I will speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U22	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U23	I call for the 'no' vote on this draft law to all those whose understanding is at the same level as that shown by Mr Rancan, whose understanding of how decisions must be made, restrictions, is the one that Mr Rancan described in his statement: that is, there is no need to understand any causal link, it is enough for us to see that there are any risks of infection, and there is no need to understand what the dynamics have been, why it has been such. It is enough simply to move in one direction or another, which means that they or other decisions have been made correctly. So, in order to be better understood, what competences are being decided on these restrictive measures. If a person has a cough, he is given a whole set of events: He is given a chamomile tea, he is put on his neck, and he is cut off his leg. The result is a slight decrease in cough. Following the logic put forward by Mr Rancán, as you judge in your commission, a conclusion is drawn. Well, one leg cut -- less left, let's cut the other leg -- the cough will get even smaller. This is at what level these measures are being considered. If that is not the case, Mr Rancan, I hope that next Thursday you will have the opportunity to show that what you were talking about was meaningful and understanding, because I hope that next Thursday we will be looking at a request to which yesterday - it was a request to Krišjānis Kariņš for the validity of the decisions - no representative of the government was able to answer anything meaningfully - because they are doing precisely this rhetoric about the fact that, you see, there is a cough and that we have done it and that, and that means, if we continue to do it, then it will become better), the failure to provide an analysis of the meaning of specific measures, of the impact of specific measures. That's one. And the other. What the previous speaker has already said is that we need to understand the systemic effects that will be in the long run with these solutions for all. You can cut a man's leg in the hope that you'll help with a cough, and maybe really he'll stop coughing, but what happens next? How do you see that problem next? If you can't understand it, you can't understand it, then maybe you don't need to complain about you... "Come to the Commission to deal with these issues... “ Just give up! Tell me that it is another commission that will have more competence to decide on these judgments. Otherwise, fundamentally all your decisions lack this causal link. You simply see some of the final results, some dynamics, some epidemiological dynamics, but you cannot link it to concrete measures, to tell them who of these measures has worked, what they have done. What in this kit - chamomile tea, leg cutting, jaw on the neck - and how should be used to get rid of cough. So, colleagues, all those who have the kind of understanding that has been shown when Mr Rancan spoke, vote against this, I call on the others to start thinking systemically and responsibly and competently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U24	One Member has spoken for, one against. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Disease Management Law” submitted by Švekova, Tatar, Stepanenko, Sprūdes, Papules, Dombrovska, Gobzema, Kazinovska, Krauze and Valaiņa (No. 965Lp13) transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! For - 37, for - 42, for - 10. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Proliferation Law” presented by the Member Jūlija Stepanenko, Lubova Švekova, Edgars Tatars, Karina Sprūdes, Alda Gobzema, Andra Kazinovska, Armands Krauze and Viktors Valaiņš (No. 966/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the Commission responsible. ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak about” Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U25	Thank you, colleagues. Our draft law together with our colleagues defines the task of the Cabinet of Ministers within one working day after the entry into force of this law to determine the procedure for ensuring restoration of the operation of absolutely all trading venues, respecting the concept of safe trade. I would remind you that this concept is what has been agreed between the ministry and the trade. Within 14 days of the introduction of new trade restrictions, the Cabinet of Ministers must prepare and submit to the Saeima a relevant report on the impact of specific restrictions on the epidemiological situation. If we are talking about the annotation of this draft law, then all of you have the opportunity to get acquainted with specific tables, which in principle proves the harmful effects of these previously introduced restrictions on trade both on morbidity indicators and on economic indicators. These specific tables have been added to prove that such reports, which we are talking about for many times, are vitally necessary for us to see the concrete effect and for us to end touch and shoot in the darkness with you, dear leaders of our country! So we can see from this table... can take a look at the specific periods from September to February... In the last week of February, in practice, the morbidity curve has grown along with the activity of retail businesses and the retail trade of goods in specialised stores, outside the shops. So, the curve... the morbidity curve has increased, but minus the number of retail sales of goods in specialised stores has grown in line with the prevalence of the disease. Unemployment has also grown. Retail trade in specialised stores – minus 66,8 – has reached the most critical limit. So it's February. Retail business in the trend in February is the most critical point - minus 51. This means that there are huge losses in principle and you, with your decisions, the honourable members of the Cabinet of Ministers, have brought the country to ruin without saving the situation with epidemiological indicators. So there is a clear need for action to be taken differently. Here we have to account for our decisions and show what these decisions have brought. So I will call on you to support this draft law. And I will call on Member Atti Lejiņa, who has quietly requested a vote but has not applied for a debate calling for a 'no' vote, to explain why this draft law is not to be supported. We see that everything that the government is doing at the moment leads us to an even worse situation. There is no improvement in the situation. If the government decides on the current ban, on the current restriction, this ban or restriction will most likely result in worse figures, and no one will ever be responsible for it. What we have to do is open up and allow people to work in accordance with specific security protocols, in accordance with a specific agreement between the sector and the ministries. We have to stop allowing officials of the Ministry of Health to strangle our economy, to strangle sport, to plague our children, but... to end simply taking control of power once in the Cabinet and allowing the economy to breathe. What you are doing right now, honourable colleagues from the coalition, honourable Mr Leiens, especially you, is to continue to destroy our economy and to continue to plague the people. I call on all other colleagues, with the exception of Mr Leiens, to vote in favour of this draft law, to support it, because we, as a number of Members, have asked that this draft law be supported. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U26	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Disease Management Act” submitted by Mr Stepanenko, Mr Svekova, Mr Strode, Mr Gobzema, Mr Kazinovska, Mr Krauze and Mr Valaiņš (No. 966/Lp13) transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! For - 37, for - 44, for - 10. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. We have examined the section of the agenda on the referral of draft laws to the commissions and continue with the own-initiative proposals that have been tabled. Project “On the way forward of the 10 129 Latvian citizens’ collective application “Let children breathe freely at school””. Are Members opposed to examining this draft decision at this sitting? Please open a section on the procedure. So no one has applied. We are starting to examine this draft decision. On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications - Member Iveta Benhena-Beeken. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U27	Hello, honourable President and colleagues! On 1 February 2021, the Saeima received a repeated collective application from 10 129 Latvian citizens “Let children breathe freely in school”. At its meeting on 24 February this year, the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications listened to the authors of the initiative, who indicated that the masks currently authorised for use in schools do not provide protection against viral transmission and maintained the requirement to abolish the mandatory use of oral and nasal covers. The representative informed that the child who is using the mask started to breathe through the mouth after five minutes of use, and stressed that the long-term consequences for children’s health of regular use of the mask were not predictable. From the perspective of the representative, it is possible to refer to various foreign practices to the mandatory use of masks in primary school... Therefore, the mandatory use of masks in primary schools should be abolished. After hearing the authors of the initiative, the Commission decided that the Cabinet of Ministers should assess whether the situation in the epidemiological field has not changed and that the requirement for students to use oral and nasal covers during and outside the study process should not be removed. On the basis of the fourth and fifth paragraphs of Section 131.5 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, the Commission prepared a draft decision of the Saeima “On the way forward of the 10 129 Latvian citizens’ collective application “Let children breathe freely in school””. I therefore call on you to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U28	Please, we are starting a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U29	Dear colleagues, I would like to congratulate our active Latvian parents who continue to sign up to this initiative and take the opportunity to sign up to increase the number of supporters of this initiative. I invite you, too, to continue... call on your colleagues, your family members to sign up to this initiative, because it is likely that this fight will have to continue for the third time - when children start to return to school, most likely in September, in October - because we know that Mrs Šuplinska told us that the training is likely to take place at a distance to spring... By summer. But what I want to say is this initiative now... The Saeima will most likely support this initiative unanimously, because it will not take any responsibility for the progress of this initiative, only by transferring it to the Cabinet of Ministers. The Cabinet of Ministers is expected to produce a kind of cancellation, which was already in the first... after the first initiative was passed, in which the decision was totally subjectively based... subjective decisions were based on the necessity of making these masks compulsory... What we see from the communication of the Minister of Education and Science in the public space is misleading information. The Minister explains both to Members in the Commission of Request and to parents in direct air from government meetings that, in her opinion, we are one of the rare countries in Europe where these masks are mandatory in schools, but forgetting to note that those countries whose ministers point out in their slides and presentations have recommended wearing masks not during the training process, but mainly in school corridors, in sharing rooms. Thus, without distinguishing between the premises where children are obliged to wear masks in accordance with national decisions, the Minister is misleading the public, because there is a real difference between children to wear masks in class during the training process, or to wear these masks when they go in the corridor and go from one room to another. That's the first. Second. The Minister has also deceived the public in his information, pointing out those countries in which the masks are not imposed, but are of a recommending nature, and on the pretext that in a number of countries where the masks are established as a recommendive, this recommendation is carried out by virtually all children, so that we can believe that these countries are included in those where these masks are mandatory. This is another misleading information that we very much hope - we Latvian parents, because I also signed up to this initiative... We very much hope that this misleading information will not continue to be used in the work of the Cabinet of Ministers, will not be used in the future in this withdrawal document, which we expect from the government in connection with this initiative, and that in the future this parents' initiative will be perceived much more seriously than we saw from the minister's rhetoric - which then they are... Only 30 thousand if, for us as a whole, children... 200,000 pupils. Mrs Šuplinska has also forgotten the fact that around 77 thousand children are studying in pre-school. We see that the number of parents who have signed represents almost half of the number of children whose fate is now decided and whose parents' views are not being heard and continue to be disobeyed by the Ministry of Education and Science. Therefore, I invite, honored parents, honored parents of Latvia, to continue signing up to this initiative MyaBalss.lv... Those who have not managed to do this, because your voice will be another reason for the Saeima and the Cabinet to review this initiative again - already for the third time - and this will be the first time in the history of Latvia, when we continue to force the officials to listen to our views. That's why I'll call again... So, of course, I can ask you to support the transfer of this initiative to the Cabinet of Ministers, although, in my view, this decision should have been much more stringent - not just to look again at what we can then change there, whether we can really, but to impose a specific report, concrete research and concrete detailed information on other countries, as well as to stop misleading the public. Thank you, colleagues. I call the parents...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U30	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On 10 129 Latvian citizens’ collective application “Let children breathe freely in school”! Please, let's vote! For - 68, for - 1, for - 1. Decision adopted. On the agenda, under the heading ‘Conclusion of the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust’. Members Maris Možvillo, Ēriks Pucens, Janīna Kursīte, Ralfs Nemiro, Atis Zakaistovs, Kaspars Ģirgens, Ieva Krapāne, Iveta Benhena-Bekena, Ivars Puga, Aivars Geidāns and Edgars Kronbergs have submitted a draft decision “On the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Ata Zakatistov from the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications”. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision tabled by the Member Možville, Pucena, Kursītes, Nemiro, Zakatistova, Girgena, Krapāne, Benhen-Beken, Pugas, Geidans and Kronberg “On the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Ata Zakatistov from the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications”! Please, let's vote! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. The order of business - examination of parliamentary requests. Opinion of the Appeals Board The request of the Members of Lubova Švekova, Didžas Šmita, Jūlia Stepanenko, Alda Gobzema, Karina Sprūdes, Edgars Tatars, Viktors Valaiņa, Evija Papules, Armands Krauzes, Jānis Vacāns to the Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On the Prime Minister’s inability to provide strategic leadership in a crisis situation”. On behalf of the Commission, Ivars Puga, Member. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U31	Hello, colleagues! Thus, the Panel examined the request made by the Member Ljubova Švecova, Didžas Šmita, Julia Stepanenko, Alda Gobzema, Karina Sprūdes, Edgars Tatars, Viktoras Valaiņa, Evija Papules, Armands Krauze, Jānis Vacāns to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš “On the Prime Minister’s inability to provide strategic leadership in a crisis situation” (No. 47/P13) and, by voting on five in favour, eight in favour and one in the absence of a single Member, admits that the request made by Members must be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U32	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U33	Yeah, thank you. As early as 8 April 2020, opposition members at the meeting of the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit pointed to the need to develop effective horizontal cooperation models between ministries, ensuring quality and effective work, proactively responding to the challenges of pandemic time. The opposition members foretold in good time the need to prepare ministries for mutual exchange of information, data exchange and analysis, and also for cooperation on the acquisition of disinfectants, the needs of the poor and people with disabilities... Pansions and shelters. We urged the Prime Minister, together with the ministries responsible, to make the necessary preparations to prevent the risks of infection in society. Both at the meeting of 15 April 2020 and at the meeting of 22 and 29 April 2020, the Ministry, together with the Office of the Prime Minister, were encouraged to cooperate under the leadership of the Prime Minister. From publicly available information we see that the long-term Covid-19 spread control strategy requested by opposition members was prepared and approved by the Crisis Management Board and by the Cabinet of Ministers only on 27 October 2020 - half a year after the respective committee meetings mentioned above. Your press releases on the strategy were as follows: "We made important decisions in the government today to provide a society-friendly long-term strategy to limit the prevalence of the Covid-19 pandemic, with clear scenarios that will allow both the government and the public to better prepare for the various possible situations. Given that we are at high risk of spreading, it is now particularly important to comply with health safety requirements: wash and disinfect our hands, use face masks in public places and keep a distance of two metres, live on the principle of home, work and fresh air." What was the result of such notifications? It can be concluded from the infographics of the publicly available information and strategy that the strategy only provides guidance on prohibitions, but that there is no strategy for a specific cross-sectoral plan on the level of human resources required in medical and social care institutions, the provision of personal protective equipment, the resources needed for the on-site and remote learning process and other necessary measures that the strategy would require as a ‘hard paper’. It can therefore be concluded that the strategy was not designed qualitatively and specifically to respond to the challenges of our country. And there is no joint and high-quality work of ministries to achieve common goals. All data on morbidity and mortality suggest this. For example, the inefficiencies of the strategy and the inability to see a general picture of the situation are reflected in the situation with the education process for Class 1-4 students. There is a clear indecision and lack of maturity to provide early distance learning for all children according to the strategy, as well as clear disrespect for the interests of Class 1-4 children's parents, without being able to provide a clear plan on children's education. Working parents were informed less than a week before the planned resumption of training on the spot about the initiation of distance learning for children, which means the urgent need to provide children with computer hardware and parental support during the distance learning process. Please explain how the Prime Minister is responsible for delaying the decisions taken by the Cabinet of Ministers, late adoption of the strategic plan and their relevance to the education process. Why Class 1-4 students without explanation were kept away for two weeks, although the strategy provides for maximum training distance with such high rates of morbidity. Neither did the educators explain that... According to the information available on the website of the National Defence Military Objects and Procurement Centre, the supplier of children and adults' hygiene masks was urgently searched on 7 January 2021. The strategy’s inefficiency and lack of planning are also reflected by the late involvement in solving the situation regarding the high level of morbidity found in social care centres. As can be seen, the strategy does not even provide for an action plan on the safety and protection measures depending on the disease rates, nor is the strategy synchronised with a vaccination plan, which includes, as a second next group after medical staff on vaccination in January and February, the staff and clients of the care centres. It should also be understood that the Prime Minister's responsibility for the absence of a strategic vision in a situation of high morbidity in social care centres is obvious. Not only is the Minister for Welfare responsible for this. The Minister for Welfare, without the Minister for Finance, without the Ministry of Education and Science, the relevant services and the services of the Ministry of Health are unable... and have not been able to ensure the health and life of people in care centres. We believe that the Prime Minister is the main person responsible for the management of government work, cooperation between ministries, the common government strategy and the joint work of ministers to achieve a common goal. Recent events show that the Prime Minister is generally more engaged in media communication than in improving the Ministry's cooperation plan for overcoming the crisis. We therefore demand concrete action and appropriate responsibility for failure, lack of quality and inefficiency... Covid-19 pandemics to deal with the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U34	We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U35	Dear colleagues, Our joint request to Kariņš was not only a call to provide the general public and the Saeima with a concrete strategy to combat the infection and eliminate the consequences of the community, but also an opportunity for Mr Kariņš to demonstrate his leadership skills. Mr. Karin got out of his way. Because Mr. Kariņš instead of coming to Members to the Request Commission... instead of coming, but connected to the Zoom and explaining its action plan, perhaps would recognise some errors and take responsibility for how these problems will be dealt with in the future, sent us some ministers, some perhaps some secretaries, officials and so on. In this way, Mr. Kariņš simply admitted his powerlessness. I understand that the opposition in your eyes, Mr. Kariņš, and also in the eyes of the coalition, is likely to be the kind of pathetic people that really... who do not deserve the Prime Minister to come to them and explain something. Perhaps this arrogance is bad for you, because the public already sees that it is not for us to try to humiliate ourselves with such a country at this time... Different secretaries of the Ministry of Health (I do not know what Mr. Durish is) and other ordinary people. You try to humiliate society by making Mr Kariņš not right, you don't have to explain his mistakes to the public, you don't have to present his strategic vision to the public, and Mr Kariņš can, with complete calmness, continue to pretend as if nothing had happened. In view of the fact that Mr Kariņa's negotiations were flooded out to the general public during the recent days, where we see Mr Kariņš' true nature. Mr Kariņš does not love society, Mr Kariņš simply cannot suffer us all, he calls for the compensation of those people who refuse to vaccinate, and continues to be joking about us all as a flock. He sees us as simply a flock of sheep that should be controlled in some way, connected to some kind of soul engineers, and so forth. And all that, in your view, is absolutely normal. Mr. Kariņš did not feel that every day, every day, these minuses were stolen, these percentage of society - the percentage of distrust - which have now reached probably the most critical limit ever for the government in the history of Latvia. If we talk about the responsibility of Mr Kariņš under the Cabinet of Ministers' Structure Law - “The Prime Minister is politically responsible for the work of the Cabinet of Ministers in general”, then we see that this responsibility is now at zero and the Prime Minister has not even tried to lead the Cabinet at any time in the way that it should be managed by the Prime Minister. Yes, we understand - five political groups, five different interests - but you took up this work and you knew that it would not be easy. You have also seen what is happening during the pandemic, you have seen that you have been given the opportunity to take this country out of the crisis, help people and protect us all. Instead, we see absolutely nothing... round zero, because every ministry does what it wants, and all ministries in general are subject to the Ministry of Health terror. Ministry of Health officials continue to suppress all initiatives, continue to close their mouths to anyone who comes with some kind of offer or proposal. A specific example is sports pruning. We see that already more than a month ago, the Saeima has voted for the decision to give the Cabinet of Ministers the task of opening up this sport gradually; to instruct the Ministry of Health to agree with the Ministry of Education and Science on a health safety protocol so that children and young people finally start playing sports even gradually, even in certain sports. But what do we see? We see that for a month, the Prime Minister has not even moved his finger to bring these two very... such uneven ministers and ministers so that they can agree that we must help children somehow survive this time. The Prime Minister has not done so. We can see that the Ministry of Health is still stealing and continues to strangling all sectors, and children's sport is also still raging, because nothing, as we also saw from Mr Riekstins' committee - the sports sub-commission - has done nothing to establish any cooperation between these two ministries. The Prime Minister does not see his role in it. The Prime Minister sees his role only in every question of people... “Panorama” to speak once a day and say something terrible. That is the only one to which the Prime Minister is capable. That is why this request, which was dealt with in two sittings, because the Prime Minister could not come and had sent out all the ministers he could remember so that they could justify his failure, it was not examined in principle, and this request simply did not come to an end, because, above all, we do not have a strategy, we do not have a strategy, the so-called strategy, which the Prime Minister has shown us on some slides. There are robbers and people with flags. It is a strategy that the Cabinet of Ministers offers us with full seriousness - three rimbulks, a arrow over there, a arrow over there. That is how we see the whole strategic plan, the head of our country. Rather than concrete calculations made by Members, opposition Members together with people working in the sector in small shops who have been sitting, calculating and looking at how these tables are put together in their own free time. We have done so, not you. You're drawing some predators. There is no serious work, there is no calculation, there is no responsibility, and what we are currently seeing will be a new communication strategy. No more. So at the moment, the problem was probably communication. If the Prime Minister considers this to be the only problem, then I think that the Prime Minister may not come to the Saeima with his annual report. Take that report in your armpit and go home, Mr. Karin! Don't come to the Saeima with that report, you won't want to hear everything we tell you about how you tortured people this year. Don't come! I call on Mr Kariņš to support this request by voting in favour. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U36	Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U37	Dear President, Dear colleagues, If we are talking about a request from the Prime Minister about his inability to ensure strategic crisis management, it was not for the opposition to be heard here today, but for the head of government or, as a minimum, for ministers who had to explain clearly and lightly in Parliament (for I would remind you, we are living in a parliamentary state) that is going on with strategic crisis management. We can see very well what is in education, which is in the economy, in the economy, how small shops go after each other, how we voted to support young people who can sport under epidemiological conditions, but nothing happens. The most dangerous thing is that we understand that if we want to get out of this crisis, we need to achieve some percentage immunity in our society. It is clear that professionals say - it's a vaccine, but we don't have a vaccine. What we are reading is that other countries of the European Union are transferring their unused vaccines to each other, but it is not clear from our management why we are not taking these free vaccines to Latvia. We are now second in Europe... If we ever call ourselves... after some crises about the success story in Europe, we are now one of the biggest, if not the biggest failure story. Latvia with Krišjānis at the forefront of Kariņš... The Latvian Government is currently showing how we should not do, how we should not work. Instead of being on board or at meetings currently being held by ministers or Prime Minister remotely, no matter how they agree to deliver a vaccine, a vaccine not used by other European countries, to Latvia, so that people who want to be vaccinated can get this vaccine to return to normal work as soon as possible, at normal rhythm, so that small shops can work and so on, nothing happens. What we see in the open sittings of the Cabinet of Ministers is that one big PR is going to happen - which is going to be smarter than one or another minister - but professional work doesn't happen. I remind you that a year ago... Almost a year ago, we wrote to both the Prime Minister and the President of Latvia: if you are unable to manage this crisis professionally, create a crisis management centre from professionals who, instead of being broadcast live, really come together and decide professionally on the restrictions and support that are needed in medicine, and on the restrictions and support that are needed in the economy. None of this happens. What we see is a really unprofessional debate. It's just ashamed to watch. I really remind you once again, colleagues: if you do not support this proposal, if you Members of the Coalition, at least tell the Prime Minister to come to Parliament and explain what has been done and how we will get out of this crisis. What we read is that the second wave is now calmed or stabilised, but immediately comes on top of the third wave, which will be much, much bigger than the next one... What are we talking about? Can't school go, can't go? Of course, now it's announced that we shouldn't go. It is simply a barrack, a chaos, and now there are not so many cultural words as to express this situation now taking place in our country. That is why I really call on all my fellow Members to support this proposal and to await the Prime Minister here in Parliament, with a real plan, a real explanation to Members and a response to Latvia's exit from this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U38	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U39	Colleagues and all those who listen to this Saeima sitting! You can clearly see and hear proof of what is happening now, that the fact that none of the governments is present in this debate today, that Krišjānis Kariņš is not present, that there is also a coalition, a coalition of power, shows what this true strategy for the government in this crisis situation is. This strategy is very simple. The government does whatever it wants, what it understands and does not understand, but the Saeima blindly and obediently confirms it - that is the government's strategy for dealing with the crisis. Somehow, maybe they'll hit a decision... It's gonna hit something. So the result is... It is possible that all of us are to a large extent responsible for this. Yes, not Karin thinks everyone is dressed in sheep, but indeed society has become a dressed in sheep. And if there's lamb sheep... As taught by the wisdom of the people - if there are sheep, there will be axe. Then these welds also swivel how they can and how they can not, leaving their understanding and possibilities. And it won't be possible to expect anything else... It will not be possible purely objectively. Unfortunately, we have not also drawn any conclusions. However, the public has not drawn any conclusions from the previous crisis. The same political forces also exported through the previous crisis... dealt in the same way, criticising everything on the shoulders of the common people. At the time, a couple of the shareholders of rich banks were rescued with the money of all the pensioners, after which we continue to recover for a long time and continue to pay for all this. Today that whole story is repeated. Just where is this government's problem? Why does all this look particularly deplorable this time? Because, unlike some human relationship, it is not possible to negotiate transactions with this collective. It is not possible to negotiate with the Soviets, it shows the competence and capacity of this government in a non-functual, objective manner, and the competence and capacity of this coalition of power. It can't be hidden, it can't be negotiated with anyone. Therefore, it is possible for the public to see what is happening now, because in fact, what is happening has happened all the time. It is with the same competence, responsibility and capacity that the government will also address all the other issues, even the same area of the OIC, which is still ongoing, which are still under way. Just keep silent, as you can keep silent. In turn, the cow - it has a... You can't deal with it. It cannot be bought in with the necessary decisions. And that's why it's what we see. So in this sense, it is also, to some extent, a great opportunity for the Latvian people to finally understand in what bog we have reached with everything that is currently happening. Understand and draw the right conclusions. If that were not the case, today, as I have already said, one of the governments would take part in this and disprove it all, would prove that what the opposition is talking about at the moment is not the truth. However, we do not hear a word of pussies here - no one dared to come and say it, showing with his silence that this power is incompetent, insane and continues to appear into his permissiveness and irresponsibility. To a large extent, we are all to blame, because if there are sheep, there will always be axes. And the shearing will continue, nothing will change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U40	The name of the Member, John Adamson. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U41	Yes, hello, dear colleagues! For us in the last 30 years, this is the most pointless, less powerful government. A government that is prone to the political decision-making of impotents. To be honest, it is not capable of making these decisions. In 2018, the Committee on Security and Defence of the Baltic Assembly held a conference dedicated to crisis situations. A study was carried out at the time and it was summarised that the regulatory framework in all three Baltic States is fine, but our health sector in all three Baltic States, including Latvia, is not ready for crisis situations. The resolution of the Baltic Assembly was adopted that governments should start addressing this issue. This was at the end of 2018. This information was subsequently also submitted to the government of Krišjānis Kariņš. What has been done? It's okay. It was more than a year to sort out the health sector; the health sector is now in an emergency situation. We have a government that is not able to make any sensible decisions at all; we also, unfortunately, have no particular difference with the coalition. If the chairman of the Panel on Petitions can simply say that - you know - we did not support this request. But then explain, why didn't you support it? Where is the problem, what are the objections? I did not hear at the commission meeting any objections to this request, as should be made, except that everyone is 'no'. Why Are You Against? What are you against? Against the government's style of action, what is being pursued? Against the fact that the government does not know what it is doing? The fact that the Head of Government or the Minister is blaming and saying that he does not know who the experts are and who has analysed this data? You don't have to laugh for yourself? Even though we should be weeping for a long time here, honestly, we should be giving attention to what is happening to Latvia. One time I have the impression that our government is doing everything to reduce the number of people living in Latvia, including by not buying vaccines. We took the vaccines once, we didn't buy them, but, well, then show me what you're doing to have these vaccines. Why are we in one of the last areas of the vaccination? If we were to buy vaccines that cost much less than they used in various benefits and to strengthen the economy, we both have long been able to earn and pay taxes, as well as the rest of society. We have a head of government who, as Minister for Economic Affairs, laid the foundations for the whole of the OIC. If you look at your electricity bills, 28 percent of your electricity bills are paid only for the OIC. Just to make someone richer. We have a government that does not comply with the decisions made by the Saeima. What are we talking about? We have people at the top of the government, even when there was a so-called financial crisis. Then a book was written, how heroic we have overcome it, even though this crisis, which was in 2009, 2010, has not yet ended in a very large number of sectors. But someone is well placed somewhere in Brussels, even though he is being charged with the purchase of the same vaccines. Colleagues, finally, look in the mirror, and one elemental thing needs to be understood - it's not the toys we do. You can do it and this one, then turn off the computer and play their game for a new... Unfortunately, no. Every day, our people die, because they are not being helped. People pay taxes in order to take responsibility for their own security - for public safety, medical security, fire safety and so on - and accordingly elect people dealing with the provision of these services. I do not feel this, I do not feel that the government would do anything to balance the decisions made, to explain them, so that these decisions are absolutely clear and understandable. Any decision, any restrictions may be firm enough, but they must be clear and understandable and, above all, must be seen when their luminance at the end of the tunnel will light up. We don't see that light right now. I am very sorry that our law enforcement system has been so weakened - and once again because of the fact that it was the Unity that the Police Academy was dissolved - that no one in its representative is bringing about any action by the government, any deliberate or unconscious damage that has been done to the state... the act or omission. This is a criminal responsibility, and unfortunately I have long understood that, until there is real responsibility, rather than some ephemeral political responsibility, until one of the leaders is seated, these leaders, the rest of whom are left, do not rise. However, I call on both the prosecutor's offices and the police to comply more strictly with the requirements of the law and to call the responsible officials to criminalise. I call for support to be given to both this and other requests. And what do we see? That, in other words, the defendant must be the Prime Minister. He has the absolute fear of coming before Members and answering questions; he obviously has the fear of showing his absolute incompetentness and misunderstanding in this situation. Two years ago, when the government was strengthened, when I spoke from the parliamentary tribunal, I invited Karina, allowing him to be a good man, but he stooped his coins and went home because he could not be a good leader. Unfortunately, my colleagues in Parliament did not listen, and today we are where we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U42	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U43	Hello, people! This is my opinion, and I do not force it on anyone. I think we're having a hard regime, not because of British strains or plywood, but because of the hockey championship. It's a lie again, not a fair tale. Your kids at school, people, don't go because we have to get the numbers down so that we can have the hockey championship. So we need to lie and fear something. That's what I mean. I think I think it's pretty accurate. People, I've understood that no orders are given to Karin. It is simply a Prime Minister who is a crimson sheet and who believes that the European Union will resolve everything in his place, because I think that in his mind he sees himself not as the Prime Minister of an independent state, but as the governor of the state of the United States. The recently published minutes of the government sittings show that Kariņš is a flower child without any temper of the Prime Minister. There is no point in all of us, Europe will give money, so something needs to be broken down, and it will be good. The plan cannot be drawn up, others do not believe. Well, that's a complete and definitive wand. That's what I want to be intellectual. But in reality, the whole position of Kariņš is: ‘I don’t know, ‘I don’t know, ‘no vaccines’, ‘the process needs to be improved’, ‘it will have to work from home’, ‘no restrictions on moving or not going to work’, ‘I’ll be wrong if I say’. ‘ What will happen if the number of cases is reduced?’ - “They will increase again.” “What is the concept and objectives for these restrictions?” - “I don’t know,” Mr. Karin. You see, orders can be given to someone who is smarter than this prime minister. And here, if we're talking about Mr. Karin, I don't have any more epithetes. Didn't you guys, in class, have anyone like that? At the bottom, the last bench plankton, who pushes out of all, is wrong with it, but whose teachers love because I feel sorry until I tears. Another significant thing is... at Karini's protocol that we were reading this week... that you have to pull it to the autumn - well, that everyone would like to vaccinate crazyly. You know what? This is how they plan consecrations of corporations, how to roll with strippers, not what to do when a country has the biggest crisis since its existence. That's why Karini's government style is a reason for everything, including the fact that he didn't buy enough vaccines for those who want to vaccinate. The man is obviously afraid to ask direct and unambiguous questions, and let us not talk about direct and unambiguous decisions, of which Governor Kariņš is afraid. And by the end. We have to go our way - the way of our country, not the way of copying, looking at strains and plywood... We simply have no other options. In the best case, we have to go the Swedish way, and in the best case we have to go our own way. It's not a copy of something and it's a continuous failure. Our loyalty is our loyalty! - is our people (it must be!) , rather than a European Union that is bureaucratic and poorly managed. Not the coalition council and coalition, but our people! The Prime Minister must be a loyal nation. And precisely because our Prime Minister is the governor of a state in another country, he cannot provide understandable management... crisis management in the country's history of major crisis. The war must come down immediately, today, in the name of the state's interests and go home! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U44	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U45	Hello, colleagues! The question expressed in the request is quite simple: whether or not Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš leads the terror of the think tanks called “government”. If he directs this power, then all responsibility for meaningful or meaningless decisions, for the activities or omissions of ministers, activities, inactivity lies on his shoulders. And naturally, those who survive a pandemic - if they survive - will also evaluate Mr. Kariņš's efforts and decide if he will shine a medal or an order... or any other form of prize offering. If he doesn't lead this team - it looks exactly like that - in which case it's a request to be supported, and there are several things about it, including, by the way, today's... Mr. Randan's speech when he criticised the government's decision that came to the commission... and that, here, a number of efforts must be made to brighten this process as well... I'll say more. The President of Latvia also in his rare historical speeches... In one of the latter he was strongly critical of members of the government. Subjugation... indirectly it was a criticism of a Prime Minister who could not deal with his... Well, one of the other here mentioned the word... “sheep”, in this case it is hardly right, this is about “consultations” (footsteps). I therefore think that this request is clearly to be supported. And there is also deep reflection on what should be done next? In this case, let us take that first step and support the demand! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U46	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U47	Highly honored Head of the sitting! Colleagues! This demand is mainly due to the fact that this government is unable to act strategically and in a coordinated manner. Since we have access to these audio files, we have seen what is happening in government sittings; we have seen that, of course, ministers are trying - on the border of such a known populism - to tell now who is better than others. This does not in any way indicate the normal work of the government and the fact that there is some kind of team in that government. Even today... in the morning, the head of the vaccination office of Latvia on Television actually quite honestly said that the problem with vaccines is that there are no vaccines. The Minister of Health himself, Mr Pavļuta, then pointed out on social networks that vaccines, when he sees that they come every week, come with these vaccines and that everything is fine. At the same time, we see that seniors who are registered with vaccines are refused - on the grounds that there are no vaccines. The seniors of the University of Latvia who were going to receive the vaccine simply say that the vaccine does not exist - they tell them when they are going to receive the vaccine, because suppliers simply send fewer vaccines than we had ordered. Of course, this problem is not only in Latvia. Of course, the main problem in Latvia is what has already been talked about - that vaccines were simply not ordered to the appropriate extent, and this risk management was beyond any criticism in the process of procurement of vaccines. You can already search for the perpetrators and punish the perpetrators, but now, when more than 60 percent of the Latvian population is ready to vaccinate... To talk about the fact that there are no vaccinees is absolutely stupid at the moment. Any PR activity that is to invite people to go... People are ready to vaccinate - no vaccines. And what we see is that the government... I personally believe that the government is not interested in obtaining a vaccine because the government's actions... none of the steps taken by the government indicates this. Why is Lithuania currently lending vaccines to other Member States of the European Union, but not to Latvia? Why does Latvia not currently use its diplomatic contacts? Why is the Head of State of Latvia, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Health not here today anywhere else in a country where there are residues of vaccines? Why don't we fight and take vaccines? Why are we not asking for help to help us deal with this crisis more quickly, so that we do not die every day for dozens of people? All these restrictions imposed by the government are what the government is doing is society... moralising, not solving the problem. Moralizes that society is responsible for this... It has been a year since we were living in restrictions. People are currently receiving the first dose of the vaccine and are then waiting for the second dose, but cannot be told to confirm whether they will have the second dose of the vaccine or not, because there is simply no information about the situation. Instead of addressing this issue, as Poland does, as Austria does, as Denmark does, which clearly shows that it is interested in providing vaccines to its citizens... Why do we not take the best example? Why do we not take an example from the same Israel, which is very clear... has gone through this process? Why are we not looking for cooperation with these countries that are strong... A step ahead of Latvia? Instead, we see with each government sitting how weak this government is. At a time when we are inectologists, specialists, declare that in principle we already have a third wave... instead we will think something for a week. We will wait for this infection to spread in such an amount that there will no longer be any point out of the restrictions, and at that time we will carry out these strict restrictions. Colleagues! In my opinion, governments are also late... inaction, as was the case with the purchase of vaccines, where there was simply a lack of action... is also quite criminal at present in relation to Latvian citizens. Colleagues! This government is not operational. Every government sitting is an opportunity for this government to prove the opposite, but at every government sitting this government shows that they are unable to work as a team. And there are reasons - several. Of course, a complicated coalition, but also the President of Latvia, telling us that there is no alternative to this coalition, is one of the perpetrators, why these ministers, these political parties, are currently sitting in such a position as protection... that, see, nothing else can come to their place. I would like to remind you, however, that much has changed in the Saeima since the establishment of this government. I think that, when reviewing the model of this government, even as part of this coalition, much could also change and perhaps people would start to think of national and not just their political ratings, which have already fallen so low that there can no longer be. This government needs to be restarted, and this government shows, with its current turn, with every meeting of the government, that they are unable to restart... create. Same with this vaccination office. The vaccination office has actually failed and the role of the vaccination office is completely incomprehensible at the moment. Colleagues, we will have the opportunity today to decide and look at this vaccination office in more detail, but that is not an argument for not having any reason to support this request. I think each of you understands that the government's work is currently under huge chaos, and this chaos is based on efforts by political parties to save their political ratings in some way. This is not a fight for vaccination of the population, for ending this pandemic, but it is just a fight for the government... rating of government forming parties... some sort of attempt to improve, nothing more. As long as this is the case, the population will suffer all of this. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for this request to be supported. Governments... The government-building parties need to listen to these things that the opposition says and, in essence, start to think national, to strike their ministers abroad to seek vaccines and do not return home without vaccines. Colleagues, we've been... Let us tell the public about the kind of vaccination that is taking place in ridiculous amounts. Shows one senior to whom this vaccination pot is inserted, and tells them whether, how good, or how satisfied! There are tens of thousands who already need it today, tens of thousands of days must be vaccinated, this is the vaccination plan. Why we cannot implement it now! Why can't we start doing all this now on a serious scale! Our neighbours are doing this, we are not doing it. Colleagues, that is regrettable, we have to start working! I call on the entire government... and the coalition parties, in particular, call on their ministers to start work at last! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U48	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U49	Dear President, Dear colleagues, It's a fashioned government, the Prime Minister, but... I would like to touch on the substance of the request. In fact, it means mutual communication. All of us are elected politicians, we represent different groups and layers of society, and only in a close sazobium can we decide at this difficult moment in favour of our society and its health. The previous speaker touched on the vaccination problem and it... international cooperation. We have tabs in Latvia called “Sputnik V”, but this vaccine introduced in the Russian Federation has already been used in several European Union countries. It was ordered in the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary. Nobody here is against this. Central European countries also suffered a great deal from totalitarian Communism, and they have their bills with Moscow, but when it comes to human lives, they reject these historic discussions and turn to the real possibility of receiving vaccines. Even if we talk about third countries... Let us take an example from Ukraine. I think that we are quite similar to Ukraine in the main area of public health, as well as in the anthropogenic situation at large. Why did President Vladimir Zelenski give an injection with a vaccine produced in India? It has been produced by one of the largest pharmaceutical producers in the world. ‘ Covaxin, as well as Covishield, two vaccines manufactured in India. I think that this is also a good opportunity for the countries of the European Union to be vaccinated. Unfortunately, I saw Eva Juhvevič recently, who, with a guilty smile, said that it would be very difficult in March because there are no vaccines. I, like everyone, say that, honest Members of the Saeima, stand in the usual line www.manavaccina.lv. As all Members of the Group, I have no advantage, but obviously some Members who will now vote against this request have already received a vaccine because they are the leaders of some parliamentary structures, irreplaceable and strategically important. But, colleagues, let us think about our fellow citizens, our fellow citizens' health and lives, and let us support this demand! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U50	Mr. Geidan, will you have nine minutes?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U51	Yeah, that's enough.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U52	Name to Member Aivars Gaidan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U53	Dear President, Dear colleagues, It's clear that Mr. Valaiņš is already travelling... Let's say you want to travel - you're on your way to someone... Colombia or to other countries. But now it's about removing the Covid-19 consequences. On the first wave, we looked very well at the European background and all the other countries were surprised. But they were surprised not because... not because we are the first and most successful because we are dealing with the elimination of these consequences, but because Latvia is in a very high position in the corruption index, and as recent studies show, this is actually one of the factors that will affect the elimination of the consequences, say, the elimination of any disaster, and hence the Covid-19. So now we shouldn't be surprised that we're not getting... We cannot fight Covid-19 because it is clear that those countries that are high in the corruption index are corruption... they fail so successfully to combat the consequences of the Covid-19. In this case... I am looking at this: the request has also been signed by certain representatives of the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. Mr. Tawar, too. Well, it was so panicy that the government doesn't do anything. As a group, we also heard from the vaccination office, as well as from the Ministry of Health, that at present, yes, there is no vaccine, but as soon as vaccines appear in the country, they will all be vaccinated quickly. And the representatives of the Union of Greens and Farmers... one has already come to Central Prison... These are actually the consequences that we are fighting at the moment, too, because... Well, I wish any Latvian citizen to live in such a way that he will be reading the list of properties belonging to him in the courtroom for two hours... So, if Mr. Tatar really were a real stateman and would take responsibility for his words... How many cubes defended Ventspils Aivars that he was politically persecuted... And how she, a poor one, is being oppressed... He would have taken and set up a Member's mandate and delivered the next representative of the Greens/Farmers' Union... In the list of Riga... to the parliament! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U54	Mrs Stepanenko, will you have five or six minutes? No, no? But it's the second debate... Try to enter time, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U55	Oh, okay, thank you. I would like to take a little bit of that on... and in this slightly strange debate, which was marked by the last speaker... We are not talking now about everything that happens in the world and in Latvia; we are talking about the failure of the head of government to manage the crisis. I don't think Mr. Geodans would like to defend Mr. Kariņš' inability to do so, because Mr. Kariņš' inability actually hurts your political power... I don't know if you belong to it right now or... two ministers... We're talking about Mrs. Petraviča and... Three Ministers, I'm sorry... You're all very fragmented. But if you're talking about these government sittings... Your colleagues, those who may hope that something will improve after open government sittings... Don't hope! All the rhetoric we read in these, well, so... As if in leaked documents from the closed government sittings, where ministers - and Mr Kariņš in particular - yelled for society, laughed for all the people... Do not deceive yourself! What you... The fact that you are currently hearing the theatre does not mean that the same ridicule that we are reading is not happening in other rooms and other conversations. This is still happening, it will continue, as long as we allow it to happen. This will indeed continue in so far as we do not call on the responsible officials to take political and perhaps other types of responsibility if their fault is proven. It's a joke, it's a attitude towards society... I am not talking about the opposition, because it is our job, but I am talking about the public attitude, the unwillingness to explain, the unwillingness to take responsibility... the lack of calculations, of absolute unfoundedness of decisions. As we can see from these open talks, there's a clear ridicule for society as a whole... Mr Kariņš should take responsibility for this first but, as we can see, none of Mr Kariņš's political party's representatives... no one!... Only one, Mr. Geodans, came out to tell us about his pain, but none of the new pardons came to defend their Prime Minister. I call you again - I call you again! - to support this proposal. And I also ask you to think very strongly about whether you really, the honourable coalition, need a zizz president, a leader (in the footsteps). Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U56	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of a Member's request by Lubova Švekova, Didžas Šmita, Julia Stepanenko, Alda Gobzema, Karina Sprūdes, Edgars Tatars, Viktors Valaiņa, Evija Papule, Armands Krauze and Jānis Vacāns to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš "On the Prime Minister's inability to provide strategic leadership in a crisis situation"! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The request made by Members was rejected. Dear colleagues, It's time for a break. But before the break, the name of the Member Juris Jušas for the announcement. Please log in. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U57	Hello, colleagues, again! Information to the Members of the Legal Commission: The Legal Commission will meet in 10 minutes at 12.40. I invite everyone to join. The link has been sent to both e-mail and WhatsApp correspondence.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U58	Dear colleagues, So it's time for a break. There's also a record of Members. It's over. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U59	Dear Members and honourable Members, The agenda for the second remote emergency session of the Saeima on 4 March 2021 shall be continued. On the agenda - examination of a request from Members. Opinion of the Appeals Board The request made by the Members Armands Krauze, Raimonds Bergmanis, Ulda Augulis, Edgars Taukars, Jānis Dūklavs, Jānis Vucanas, Gundars Dauges, Māra Kučinska, Viktors Valaiņa, Janīna Jalinska to the Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On an attempt by the Minister of Justice to influence the judiciary”. On behalf of the Commission, Ivars Puga, Member. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U60	Colleagues, welcome again! The Panel examined the request made by the Member Armanda Krauze, Raimonds Bergmanis, Ulda Augulis, Edgars Taukars, Jānis Dūklavs, Jānis Vucanas, Gundars Dauges, Māra Kučinska, Viktora Valaiņa, Janīna Jalinska to the Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On an attempt by the Minister of Justice to influence the judiciary” (No. 48/P13), document No. 3552 and, with six votes for, seven against and two abstentions, admitted that Members' request should be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U61	Please call me! However, I am sorry, Members are applying for a debate. I invite you to apply for a debate in good time. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U62	Colleagues! I am sorry, colleagues, that I have so late submitted to the debate on this request. First of all, I would like to emphasise the resolution of the Council for the Judiciary of 29 January, where it has indicated that the Minister of Justice is one of the highest officials of the judicial department in the country - with quite a wide range of powers regarding the judiciary, including the right to initiate disciplinary proceedings against judges. Thus, if such an official expresses an unreasoned displeasure against the result of the judgment, it can be regarded as unlawful interference of judges who viewed the case at the highest instance. Colleagues! The purpose of the request was to address this request to the Prime Minister to the Prime Minister to express his views on the matter. Request Commission... during the examination... The first strange thing was that the Prime Minister had already made this decision... passed on - passed on by resolution... reply to the Minister of Justice... It is by nature strange, because the request was addressed to the Prime Minister. In our opinion, it's the premiere... the fact that no action was followed by this largely unacceptable action by the Minister of Justice, which was condemned by the entire Council for the Judiciary, does not, in my opinion, withstand criticism. The Prime Minister should have paid some attention... Minister of Justice... that this type of activity is not acceptable in the country of law. What did we hear at the commission sitting? We heard at the commission meeting that representatives of the Prime Minister said that they wanted this matter to be resolved so quietly... silently, to say that it does not pay much attention to it. Colleagues, attention had already been paid to this at the moment when the Council for the Judiciary convened its meeting to evaluate this issue. The question is - why did the Prime Minister in no way point out the non-professional behaviour of the Minister of Justice, to say so, in this situation? What is more important, though? More importantly (and that already marks a little bit of this coalition known... uncertainty) - how then the government really works as a team. The Prime Minister's resolution to the Minister of Justice to come to the Commission for Requests... in a parliamentary democratic state to come to the Saeima and account for their work... Not only did the Minister of Justice send anything, but he did not arrive at all. This request was examined in substance, without hearing the Prime Minister's opinion, which he had delegated to the same Minister of Justice. Colleagues, in this situation, we can see that... What is the fight that is now going on in Poland, Hungary... why the rule of law has been raised and when it comes to the allocation of the European Union's structural funds... on the question of the rule of law... Why is this talked about? This is precisely because politicians interfere with the judiciary. This is unacceptable in a normal democratic state, and it should not be. Now the Minister of Justice has demonstrated... He gave a bright demonstration of how he did it. We saw the decision of the Council for the Judiciary, which condemned it, but we saw no decision of the Prime Minister. It would be normal if the Prime Minister had in some way turned to the Minister of Justice so that such things would not happen again in the future. It is also not clear from the rhetoric of the Minister of Justice whether he will do it or not, whether he has learned from his mistakes or not... and what further action will be taken by the Prime Minister, if any. Will the Prime Minister ask for the resignation of such a minister if this happens again in the future? The President of Latvia has also called on the Prime Minister to act at those times if ministers do not work as normal democracy should do. This is a striking example of how the Minister has ignored the fundamental principles of a democratic state, extortioning the rule of law and placing the whole Latvian state in a situation where the state of Latvia can receive criticism of non-compliance with the rule of law in the country as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U63	I closed the debate. Mr. Pugas, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U64	No, nothing is added on behalf of the Commission. The request was rejected by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U65	Please call me! We will vote for the Member Armands Krauze, Raimonds Bergmanis, Ulda Augulis, Edgars Taukars, Jānis Dūklavs, Jānis Vucenas, Gundars Dauges, Māra Kučinska, Viktors Valaiņa, Janīna Jalinska's request to the Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš "On an attempt by the Minister of Justice to influence the judiciary"! Please vote mode! On - 32, against - 49, refraining from - 11. The request is rejected. The next item on the agenda is the examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U66	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Draft law prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the spread of infectious management”. There are a number of amendments that I would call the most important. The number 8989 to which the population can call for vaccines is free of charge. The draft law also provides that the National Electronic Media Council is entitled to transfer the content produced by Latvian public media to other media without remuneration, subject to compliance with the requirements of the relevant laws, such as the waste prevention law. The draft law provides that the amount of security for the tourist operator is at least equal to the amount of money paid by travellers, but not less than EUR 3000. If the amount of money paid by the tour operator and the traveller does not exceed EUR 10 000, a coefficient of 1,5 shall be applied to calculate the amount of security required. The draft law provides for amendments to the conditions for the provision of social services and social assistance and special conditions in the areas of health, namely that additional risk premiums of 50 per cent may be provided for the staff of the state and municipal social care and accommodation centres for the care of co-infected persons and contact persons for the period from 1 December 2020 to 30 June 2021. That premium may also be fixed for staff involved in testing those persons by means of a Covid-19 antigen test. There is an obligation on social service providers to comply with the requirements, guidelines, guidance and other measures of local authorities and national competent authorities to mitigate the health risks of workers and their customers. The Head of the Authority shall be responsible for complying with the epidemiological safety requirements and the organisation of work at his institution. It is stipulated that the municipality should immediately provide child care in appropriate premises if the parent is ill with Covid-19 and is located in a medical institution and if the child cannot provide self-insulation with relatives or other persons close to the child. The amendments to the law provide that officials and employees of the medical institutions providing outpatient or hospital health care services, family doctor practices, emergency medical services, employees of the State Blooddonors Centre as well as pharmacists, Ministry of Health, Disease Prevention and Control Centre, National Health Service and Health Inspectorate for work in high-risk and stress conditions related to the outbreak of Covid-19 infection and prevention of its consequences are allowed to establish a premium up to 100 per cent of the monthly salary. The additional amount necessary for the premiums is requested from the National Budget Programme “Unforeseen assets”. Here, like a number of institutions involved in limiting the prevalence and consequences of Covid-19 infection, it is permitted to determine overtime work for up to 60 working hours per week. The payment of overtime also takes place from the budget programme “Unforeseen assets”. The draft law also provides for the duration of the vaccination project bureau until December 2021 and the maximum rates of remuneration of its employees (in an annex to the law). In the Commission, after hearing the institutions, experts and representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, the draft law was conceptually supported. The urgency requested by the Cabinet of Ministers for this draft law was also supported conceptually, therefore, on behalf of the Commission, I call upon you to determine the urgency of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U67	That's... Mr Valaiņš obviously wanted to debate at first reading, not on urgency. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on communicable Management” as urgent! Please vote mode! For - 65, for - 2 and for - 13. Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U68	I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U69	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U70	Thank you. Highly honored Head of the sitting! I will focus on one separate section of the draft law - which is the vaccination office. And thank you to Mr Rancan, who told us very correctly about the very many things that are needed in this draft law. But what we can also read from the annotation... that included inside... all this correct and necessary draft law is included in the middle this vaccination office... And that's the first place in this... for us in the Saeima, where we can judge the substance of setting up a vaccination office, principles and objectives to be achieved. Now, if we look at how it has developed... I think it would have been right for the Saeima to look at this issue in a separate separate bill, where we would be talking specifically about the role, existence and need of the vaccination office in dealing with this crisis at the moment. I would definitely not like to be the one who says that we do not need a vaccination office as such. Currently, the vaccination Bureau has confirmed by its activities that it is simply looking for a place in the existing system. We see that, after the first month of work, the vaccination office has only done so, as it has tried in some way - with some processes, with some imitation - to give the impression that they are currently working very actively, although it would be more important to assess the substance of what the vaccination office actually does. This includes: coordinating the provision of vaccination, including the organisation of vaccination sites, the prioritisation of groups to be vaccinated, and so on. Now from the public space... we have seen that the first task of the vaccination office was, with which they have also done an excellent job... have been vaccinated by members of the government. Is that a priority? I think it wasn't exactly the priority that... should be done at a time when there is an acute shortage of vaccines, as acknowledged today by the head of the vaccination bureau itself. According to the report, they are high-ranking specialists and are intended to involve high-ranking specialists with experience in the development of similar processes. As a minimum, I think they should be those people who come directly from this sector, although the head of the vaccination office is a high-level specialist in organising the Song Festival. And in a way, the similarities can already be seen: how the Song Festival tickets were purchased and how the people currently make such a mass registration on manovaccina.lv. We see how this manovaccina.lv has deceived the people of Latvia in a way, and indeed a huge thanks to doctors, family doctors who try on their shoulders... the process is currently organised, implemented. And in principle, they are also those people, those clinicians who are really carrying out all this gravity right now. And it would be right for us to learn from these mistakes right now, so that these tasks are defined much more clearly, more purposefully, so that there are now a whole range of organisers, a whole range of coordinators, and they also have a legitimate task, which is also clearly stated in the annotation, even though real life is introducing its own adjustments, which we are already seeing today. And then, when the massive vaccination starts, there will be some kind of clashes between real life and political will; this is clearly demonstrated at the moment by the desire of this vaccination office to engage in the process. Why am I talking about this? If we are talking about coordination, then we have to say that the current system... To illustrate: The family doctor is aware, for example, of the number of seniors he needs to be vaccinated (e.g. there are 100), and then he goes to the Public Medicines Agency and makes this request (as is the case with the usual vaccination measure - so, as usual, has been working for many years on a daily basis), and then the body goes further to the suppliers who proceed with these vaccines... as much as we have managed to get this vaccine now... further, they provide a complete logistics chain to the office of this family doctor. And where do you see the vaccination office in this situation? Its role is practically not there. But here it is said that it is the main coordinator! So what does that office coordinate? That's how the system works differently. We're trying to push the system in here by defining for them tasks that are by nature wrong. And already in the first month has shown that it is wrong. And also about communication with the public. Colleagues, if representatives of the vaccination bureau are unable to answer the question of how many doses are present in one bottle, do not in any way indicate their high level of competence and the public's belief in the vaccine as such. And in this case, any doctor, inectologist... At present, there are so many specialists in our public media space who explain very well why the vaccine is safe, how the vaccination process takes place and what happens afterwards. Just for a small bonus they would be grateful. They will also work from morning to night without the entire vaccination office. Even now, without the entire vaccination office, it is explained to the public. Now! It would be better for them a little bonus... they would be grateful for it and do it with even more enthusiasm. At the moment, the experts are notived “the right” vaccination office instead of PR consultants... saying that they are smarter than those who have been learning this area for ten years and, in my opinion, are now in perfect communication with the public. Any specialist who expresses his opinion on the vaccination process simply makes it excellent, justifies it much better than these experts from the vaccination bureau. And the vaccination bureau's specialists will never do it better than a doctor, a doctor who has learned in that field. Therefore, my fellow Members, I will encourage these points on the salary of the vaccination office and on these objectives, which are currently only included in the annotation... in the draft law (where only the question of wages is included in it), to be excluded out. And I call on the government, the coalition, the government-building parties to submit this matter to the Saeima in separate order and then to reach an agreement in the Saeima... together with experts, involving a broad public debate... define the functions of this vaccination bureau, then what is the remuneration of the specialists of this vaccination bureau... that they may not be duplicated. Similar to the current vaccination plan with the same vaccines... We're... is the employer who collects these people for vaccination. The citizen can apply for manovaccina.lv... Family doctor, phone number. In the end, where is that person even to apply? And when he tries to do that, the only one who works turns out to be a family doctor... provided that: if he has agreed to provide the vaccination process. Colleagues, the problems here are organisationally enormous, and such a legitimisation of the vaccination office - under such conditions that are included in this annotation - is wrong. The vaccination office, I think, would be right now... I've never heard a word from anyone to explain what to do with these residues of vaccines... to explain in a normal way that it is not that we are approaching the moment when those who are involved in vaccination - doctors, specialists - will be safe to throw out this vaccine than to vaccinate someone else, because the pressure from all kinds of organizations and all those who are looking with us is huge... about that... so, don't give it to God, to someone else who doesn't have the vaccine! At the end of the day, this may lead to these vaccines simply lean out. The vaccination office should think about this: how to coordinate these surpluses so that no vaccine dose goes down. But nothing has been heard about it at all. And, of course, I would not want to go further at all about the absence of vaccines and about these tiny amounts. But at this point, I am calling, colleagues, for this section to be divided into a field. This section currently calls for support to be given at first reading to this draft law. And those good things that are needed as a matter of urgency... we supported the urgency, we will support it at first reading as well. Go ahead, but debate this section separately, because the first month has shown that this section is not working. The first month has shown that these assigned tasks confuse the head of the normal systemic functioning that already exists. And that shouldn't be the case. This will lead to problems in the coming years. Colleagues, I call for support for this draft law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U71	We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U72	Dear colleagues, As I have already pointed out for the referral commissions of this draft law, I do not support the establishment of a vaccination office. And - just like Mr Valaiņa - I will also call for the provision to be excluded for the establishment of a vaccination office and for these salaries, because, I repeat, in the context of their small premiums, these vaccination office salaries are absolutely unethical measures. I have still not been able to find the rules of the vaccination office. It may have already been published, but some time ago I couldn't get to know it in any way. And I think very many people cannot understand - even by reading this annotation - that needs a vaccination office at all, because this annotation also says that the vaccination office coordinates this line, coordinates all applications, but, as we see, there are at least three different ways in which people can still get to this vaccination. And in general, there is a great deal of uncertainty for those people who would like to receive this vaccine. As we spoke today about these cynical talks at the government's closed sittings... This vaccination office is likely to be designed to convince unbelieving people to vaccinate ‘soul engineers’. But - "soul engineers" are trying to convince the unbelieving, to vaccinate the unwilling, without vaccines. That is, of course, very comical. All in all... I believe that such an institution, such an institution in our country, is absolutely unnecessary at the moment, given that it duplicates several functions. It is even a dual information function because, as we see and were also pointed out, the vaccination office does not yet need any specific form of communication, because they already have the SPPC, which is very, very active in social networks and also in the media. All in all... I have already tabled such a proposal with my colleagues, and I will also call for it to be supported and for it to be prevented from wasting money and scorning at doctors. Thank you. I call for this draft law not to be supported in its entirety, because it has not been split up, as Mr Valaiņš said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U73	Name to Member Ilmar Duritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U74	Good afternoon, very honourable chair of the sitting, honourable Members! I would like to call for this draft law to be supported at first reading. And perhaps also to respond to the concerns of the previous speakers regarding the vaccination office and its necessity. Well, I would like to say that, above all, the vaccination office has three main tasks, which I think... if we really look at the work of the vaccination office in an objective and detailed manner, this office also carries out these tasks. And the first of these is... So the office had the task (and the office is still working on it) to create and improve a platform for applying for vaccination and to build not only this line, but also further... taking into account the priority groups and coordinating this line between a very large number of vaccination rooms. For the sake of clarity, I would simply like to say that more than 500 vaccination offices, including family doctors, are already involved in the vaccination process, but this number will increase, because we... and the vaccination office has also been informed that more than 500 family doctors will alone vaccinate people against Covid-19 infection, and this number could also increase. So there is a platform set up in a short time. Yes, there is criticism of the functioning of this platform, there is justified criticism... places, but understand that this platform was established and had to be created very, very soon. It's being improved. In parallel, a call center was set up. The capacity of the call centre has also been significantly increased in recent weeks. And, of course, given that the vaccination process affects and will affect virtually any citizen in Latvia, it is clear that even the most detailed organizer of the process will face various accusations, refutations, uncertainties, because it is only logical that every person has questions. The vaccination bureau receives a huge number of daily questions from the population, complaints... And uncertainty... and trying this... coordinating between the different Ministry of Health... and subordination authorities... and in general the authorities involved in the vaccination process, also answer the unclear questions of the population. Of course, too... In view of the fact that the vaccination process is organised both in the course of vaccination, in family medical practice and in large hospitals in vaccination rooms... and will also be organised in large vaccination centres... then, of course, the different forms of interpretation of these vaccination facilities must also be taken into account, especially at the very beginning of the process, when simply... either, the whole system and this mass vaccination process must simply come into being. Because these questions, while this process is being incorporated, arise very much. The second important task of the vaccination office is to coordinate the supply and distribution of vaccines between these very many... hundreds of vaccination offices. And, of course, this is a great challenge, because the setting by the vaccination office and the Ministry of Health is that vaccines must not be kept in a refrigerator for a long time, we must deliver them to the vaccination rooms as soon as possible and allow people to receive them. So it is a great challenge - to align the line of persons to be vaccinated with the availability of vaccines, the regional dimension. And all this is done... better or worse. I think that this is being done more and more on a daily basis, and this process is beginning to progress better and better. Here, too, it should be borne in mind that the supply of vaccines also depends on holding the names of producers, if we can say so. Every day in fact and every week we receive various clarifications for the supply of vaccines to Latvia. As we have also heard, various manufacturers... AstraZeneca also... changes their delivery plans by reducing the number of vaccines to be delivered each week, possibly increasing one week, and the system must be ready for these adaptations, which are not dependent on either the vaccination office or the Ministry of Health, so that on the manufacturer's side is also... Well, a lot... and also understandable reasons why these supplies are sometimes delayed, sometimes smaller or sometimes larger. I can say that, already in April, I am sorry, there are 164 thousand doses of vaccines in the month of March that have not yet been approved. This means that around 80,000 people will receive the vaccine in March. That is - already at this level - quite a challenge, but of course in the coming months - April, May - the volume of supplies will only increase. As a result, we will all be interested, as a society, in getting this vaccine as soon as possible. And, of course, another very important task for the vaccination office is to inform and inform citizens in general about the vaccination process, involving doctors and doctors, because, of course, those working in the vaccination office are the organisers, they are not the doctors themselves. So we're very... We also call and trust, and we thank the doctors very much, for carrying out this clarification work directly for the citizens, both for the side effects of the vaccine, and for the indications, contraindications and so on. And, of course, this very challenging task of organising a series of large vaccination centres, which will be a very serious task for the vaccination office, will be very challenging. We can, of course, say that perhaps all this can be done without such a centre, but it must be admitted that such a large vaccination of virtually all citizens and in a relatively short time... has not been a measure... and for us and many other countries it is a challenge. We see that many countries have these large vaccination centres. And that's why we pay this price as a national vaccination office... and it is so intended in this, 2021, year... the vaccination office shall work until the end of 2021. This price - 640 thousand - is, in my opinion, a reasonable expenditure compared to the huge expenditure we spend on essentially this co-crisis, including both the cost of the vaccines themselves and the cost of hospitals for the treatment of the sick. And I very much hope... and we will make sure that the activities of the vaccination office justify ourselves by the Ministry of Health. And the vaccination office has high requirements. And in the current situation, we can also be happy that these vaccines do not accumulate in refrigerators, are being intensively used, and these vaccination rates will also have to increase significantly, with the increase in vaccine rates. As a whole, colleagues, I do not think there is a need to separate this issue from the draft law, and I call for its support at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U75	We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U76	Yeah, thank you. Vaccination initiative and campaign reveal very fundamental problems in the whole of Latvia's healthcare system. The first and foremost is that there is no information in the country, that is, data that is the basis not only for qualitative and well-thought-out decision making and efficient use of taxpayers' money, but above all for clarifying the problems and risks of the existing situation. The lack of data is actually a convenient position to be able to say that there are no many problems at all, because there are no data already. There is no cancer patient register in Latvia, nor a chronic disease patient database. If the health care system is based on the Institute of Family Physicians, each citizen has his or her own family doctor, then it would be natural that each family doctor has his or her own patient register or, more logically, there would be a common register of the patient's family doctor and of the patient's condition and manipulations. If there were such a register, then Covid-19 and vaccination cases... the number of people would be clear... and data... which are part of risk groups from age to various pests, but above all contact between these persons for rapid communication, which would allow for an early organisation of vaccination. According to the information available to the public, neither Lithuania nor Estonia has set up specialised bodies or specialised bodies to carry out procedures relating to the vaccination of the population and the problem of vaccination, including... Both Lithuanian and Estonian public officials and relevant services, employees, do not receive appropriate additional funding as provided for in the law. And the summary is as follows: The initiative set up by the vaccination office to apply for vaccination electronically or by telephone is nothing other than a public opinion poll which proves once again that there is no system or data in the country for effective vaccination - people at risk, contacts between these persons, so that they can be contacted quickly by family doctors and tell them when and where they need to be vaccinated. Summary The Ministry of Health and the services are unable to talk about effective planning and efficient use of the state budget in health care, because no other Baltic State has created a special, special vaccination office, as it has been done in Latvia. The state, in this case, the family doctors who are at the heart of the health care system, have no direct contact with the population. And at the moment, health care by setting up a vaccination office has become a public communication project or an advertising campaign to replace a real, meaningful work that... do not improve public health during a pandemic. And that's why I'd call this a stormy simulation for now, so... Unfortunately, it would not be possible to support the existing... the future direction of the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U77	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U78	Yeah, thank you. I would be very, very pleased if Mr Dūriša could give us some insight into the activities carried out by the vaccination office during this time since the vaccination office was set up. As Mr Valaiņa has already pointed out, we believe that the only activity carried out by the vaccination office is the vaccination of these officials who believe that they will stop without them. We all saw these pictures, and in principle, the organisation of these pictures was probably one chup and violated, by the way, the epidemiological rules. It is probably the only achievement of the vaccination bureau, because it is actually a little strange to read in this law as well... in the draft law, their text that the vaccination office will still be set up. If you read this bill carefully, then you see that Members are currently voting on future plans, even though the vaccination office has been working for a long time. Once again, then, the government is trying to legitimise its spending and its hasty decisions. I am not in favour and call for no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U79	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U80	Yes, colleagues! I will reply to Mr Dūrišs and call on the Members of the Saeima, however, to look further at this bill at second reading, but to take a decisive decision... direct the action and the question of the vaccination office as a separate draft law, because, as Mr Dūritis also said at the time of his speech... He mentioned many of the tasks that the vaccination bureau will do and what it should do... and where there are still big challenges ahead of us. I fully join in the fact that the vaccination office faces major challenges. However, at this point in time, it is not possible for Members of the Saeima to debate these tasks meaningfully (only in this section, where we decide to refer to the first reading) and where we are still putting forward any proposals so that we can discuss together those objectives, those tasks which the vaccination office really has, with particular emphasis on the fact that this does not duplicate existing systems that work. Well, there is no word in this order, for example, that the vaccination office should play a key role in communication with local authorities... with regard to centres where municipalities, involving their people, human resources, could help... directly assist in carrying out the mass vaccination process. Of course, municipalities are prepared to do so. But until today, there has been no real normal communication with local authorities to solve this problem. There is just one example where, after the problems had been identified, when the situation in Madona was not solved, they turned... finally noticed - but there is a head of the municipality who, of course, took the initiative to address this issue further. I am convinced that Mr Lungevičs will fully manage to arrange this issue together with health professionals so that Madona has a clear assurance of how the vaccination process is being carried out with experts. What you said, Mr. Durish... A number of these tasks, which have now been defined, will be done, just as the system has so far been working on... what you mentioned here about these logistics chains. I think the order that exists today will not change in substance. Private entrepreneurs also now provide complete logistics, and they will continue to do so. It would be great perhaps to help with some cold stores in some areas where they are lacking, but just as little... But there is too little specificity in these tasks. At a time when it is so general, happens what happens,-- the vaccination office chaoticly looking for its place to justify its existence in some way, because now politicians are trying to put their inaction on them and try to blame them everywhere. I do not believe that the vaccination office should not be as such. I believe that the Saeima must agree on specific objectives, finally defining what it is doing. Don't be like all these phones you mentioned and something else... that at the end of the normal citizen is confused what he must do: whether the employer will apply to him, whether he has to call somewhere, or manovaccin.lv will still work or not. There is chaos in this area. If we had enough vaccines at the moment, they would just stand on the shelves behind the fact that it is not people who want to vaccinate, but there is no system infrastructure in the way in which this process takes place, and this is all based on doctors who are dealing with this problem at the moment on their shoulders. This, in my opinion, is not normal, and that is the thing that should be debated (and I would also have my own proposals to put forward) where we would define clear targets. This draft law does not give this opportunity. In this draft law, the only option that is given is either to support or not to support the wages of the staff of the vaccination office. That's all - without goals, without targets, without targets, without achievable indicators, without anything like that. And that's... With this decision, it will only continue, and there is already a problem. Again. If you follow this debate, Mr Dūrišs, I have asked you on several occasions to involve, at last, normal local authorities. Without the municipalities, no vaccination, no success story will come to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U81	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U82	Yeah, thank you. Dear colleagues, When creating any new authority, it is necessary to define precisely those tasks which should be dealt with there. If the vaccination office is set up with a view to obtaining the vaccine in sufficient quantity and of appropriate quality, this is one task. A logical task that could be determined by making an appropriate decision, let us also say. The other one, which has been talked about a lot today, is about coordination. This is much more serious, because coordination involves different functions. Well, the first function is to say if the same vaccine is supplied to vaccination centres at the vaccination sites. Nothing can be reinvented here either, because in principle any pharmacy network has its own logistics scheme, which includes the whole territory of Latvia, which has been designed and has long been working enough quickly and mobile enough. Consequently, this is hardly the task of the vaccination office. The crazy issue is that we have different vaccination centres: family doctors, specifically established vaccination centres, hospitals and so on. But we are not talking about vaccination of any person at all, in every case we are talking about vaccination of a particular patient. Thus, the first thing you need to do and what you will tell any doctor that you need to study the characteristics of a patient, a particular patient, which are determined and can only be determined by a family doctor, no one else. If such a primary survey does not take place today, there is an increased risk that vaccination in an en grups situation, or in a majority situation, could lead to poor results. That is why, here too, the question of coordination is much more serious than it looks. That is why what the Members are proposing that this issue is separable from the common series of questions is justified, indeed very serious, if we do not want it because of a bunch. If we want to achieve serious results, then we have to do so. So this one, too... We have already talked a number of times about the fact that, if in a single decision, a single law has put together different things that cannot be put together, then it would be better to divide it into positions. What is to be merged - it is to be merged; it is not to be merged - it is to be seen separately. And here is the typical case that the functions, responsibilities, responsibilities and, as a consequence, pay should be considered separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U83	I closed the debate. Mr. Rancan, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U84	Yes, thank you, colleagues. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U85	Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on the Management of communicable Diseases” (No. 933 Lp13) support at first reading! Please vote mode! For - 65, for - 4, for - 18. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals and a meeting when it is to be considered at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U86	Yeah, colleagues. The Commission decided on a deadline of five days for the submission of proposals, which would be 9 March this year, and on 25 March this year for the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U87	Thank you. The Bureau has received a request from Member Uldas Budriks to speak on the deadline for proposals for this draft law. Please enable the section on the procedure and Mr. Budriks also apply again electronically. Please, Mr. Budrik, you have a name.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U88	Yes, honorable head of the sitting! Colleagues! As there is a crisis in the country, I would call for a one-day deadline for tabling proposals and an extraordinary meeting of the Saeima next Thursday, 11 March. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U89	So Mr Budriķis proposes 5 March as the deadline for the second reading of the proposals and 11 March for the second reading of the draft law at the Parliamentary sitting. So we must vote on these proposals. First of all, we must vote in favour of the next proposal. So the Commission's proposal - 9 March as the deadline for tabling proposals and 25 March as the day of the legislative meeting at the Saeima. Please call me! We will vote on 9 March as a deadline for the submission of proposals and 25 March - consideration of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! For - 27, for - 33, for - 13. So this proposal from the responsible commission is not supported. And the deadline for submitting proposals... It is stipulated that proposals for second reading... One day, March 5, consideration of the Saeima sitting - March 11. We shall proceed to the agenda of the sitting. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Ministry of the Interior system institutions and officials in the administration of prison places with special service levels in the law on service progress”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U90	(Sound defect.) ... no proposals were received for the third reading. I therefore call for its support at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U91	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Ministry of the Interior system institutions and the administration of prison places with special service levels in the law on service progress” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Administrative Procedure Law, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juris Jurash. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U92	Dear colleagues, At first reading we look at draft laws supported by the Legal Commission “Amendments to the Administrative Procedure Law” (No. 887/Lp13). The draft law was prepared in the working group of the Ministry of Justice, which works with development of electronic case (e-case) platform and implementation of e-case in courts. Since currently the administrative procedure is mainly intended for the movement of paper documents, amendments to the Administrative Procedure Law are to be made both editorially and in substance in order to make the regulatory framework more general and to prevent possible cases of non-compliance with the legal norms for the implementation of the electronic administrative case, and to facilitate the movement of electronic documents in administrative proceedings. The draft law provides for amendments to the Administrative Procedure Law in order to make the regulation applicable to electronic proceedings in court, so that administrative proceedings in court become simpler, faster and thus more effective. Please support the draft law on Amendments to Administrative Procedure Law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U93	Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Administrative Procedure Law”! Please vote mode! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U94	The deadline for submitting proposals is 5 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U95	So there are no other proposals. The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 5 April. Thank you. The next item is the bill “Amendments to the Law on the Flag of the State of Latvia”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Inese Voika. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U96	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Hello, colleagues! See the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Flag of the State of Latvia” (No. 888/Lp13). This is one of the draft laws requiring editorial changes, as last June the Saeima adopted a new division of administrative territorial municipalities. No proposal was submitted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 95 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure for second reading. The Commission supported the draft law at second reading and calls on the Saeima to do so.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U97	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Flag of the State of Latvia”! Please vote mode! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U98	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is five days, i.e. 9 March of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U99	Thank you. There are no other proposals, so the deadline for the third reading is 9 March this year. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juris Jurash. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U100	Colleagues! At first reading, we see draft laws supported by the Legal Commission “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” (No. 897/Lp13). Draft law, similar to the draft law “Amendments to the Administrative Procedure Law”, was prepared by the working group of the Ministry of Justice, which works with development of e-case platform and implementation of e-criminal case in investigative institutions, prosecutor’s office and courts in order to promote efficient use of investigative institutions, prosecutor’s office and judicial resources, as well as to develop the provision of modern, human-oriented, convenient and understandable judicial services. As criminal proceedings are currently based on the movement of paper documents, in the context of planned innovations a number of technical and substantive amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law are to be made in order to make the regulatory framework technologically neutral, to remove possible regulatory obstacles to the implementation of electronic criminal cases and to facilitate the circulation of electronic documents. At the same time, taking into account the specifics of criminal proceedings and the fact that criminal proceedings will be implemented electronically, it is necessary to include in the Criminal Procedure Law a regulatory framework that would be appropriate for the conduct of criminal proceedings both in paper format and electronically on the e-case platform. The draft law provides for such amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law to make the regulation technologically neutral, to electronicise individual processes and to facilitate the circulation of electronic documents in criminal proceedings in general. Please support the draft law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U101	The draft law has not been submitted to the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law! Please vote mode! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U102	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 5 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U103	There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 5 April this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law "Amendment to the Law on Personal Income Tax", second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhena‐Beeken. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U104	Dear President, Colleagues! We will work with the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Personal Income Tax” (No. 652/Lp13). The draft law was drawn up for the second... dealt with the second reading at the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Its examination required an additional meeting, during which an alternative concept was created than that developed by the government together with public organisations and proposed by the Commission. A little bit about these concepts. Thus, the proposal of the Ministry of Finance is to relieve the borrowers of the liabilities towards the State and to give way to the banks with regard to the creditors’ claims on those who took loans to acquire real estate for their own residence, and to reduce the rate of capital gains from 20 per cent to three of the gross amount of the disposal. The second mechanism, on the other hand, provides for the release of all borrowers in the insolvency proceedings that have borrowed, including those driven by other motivations. As you can see, the discussions were wide-ranging. And then, on the proposals. 1. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Related to proposals 3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13. This specific purpose is to supplement the paragraph on the procedure for calculating personal income tax with the following wording: “from the payer’s income from the disposal of immovable property obtained within the framework of insolvency proceedings of a natural person established in the insolvency law – the administrator of insolvency proceedings”. The Commission divided its votes on this proposal: five for and five against, two abstentions. As a result, the Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U105	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Iveta Benhena-Beeken. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U106	Good afternoon! So this proposal is for people, for Latvian citizens, for responsibility from the banking sector for issuing unthinkable loans. I call for this proposal to be supported because, without supporting this proposal, we confirm that we are protecting the interests of the banks and not the people of Latvia. We must not always save banks and defend only their interests; we should be responsible for our decisions and for our fellow citizens. 2008 has all remained in our memory as the time for the irresponsibility of banks - a time the consequences of which we still feel today, a time when the legislator trusted and did not lay down the rules of the game, because it was believed that evaluation and professionalism were the characteristics of bankers. However, reality has proved to be different. The profit margins were higher than the responsibility towards the company and the borrowers. At the moment, we are talking about a process that only comes when these lenders have let everything go to work with the borrower and have not assessed the borrower's ability to repay the loan. The origin of such situations is not human error, but banks. Without supporting this proposal and its follow-up, the only beneficiary will be the banks. The interests of the citizens of Latvia must be protected. Why? Because this process is important. Because on this issue, which also fell out in the Commission, the frightening word was “tax”, “tax on capital gains”, where the difficult discussions over the year reached a compromise with all the parties involved. The dispute is now three per cent instead of 20 per cent. Three percent only for those who bought their real estate, not for their own house, but for other motives. This is not about a new tax, but about its reduction and application. We are talking about the need to raise pay for educators, those who take care of children's education, those who save our lives, those who need to be repaired, those who need to support entrepreneurship in order to live in prosperity. I do not believe and do not want to believe that we as a parliament could support bonuses for bankers. And I do not believe that the majority of us believe that the rich must be richer and the poor must be poorer. By rejecting this proposal, we will call the 'Margarita' banker in the Bahamas. A banker who has previously requested a pile of documents to be able to make sure that the credit is to be issued and will be returned. Who, then, is responsible for his decisions? A person who has asked a professional or a professional who has granted a credit, regardless of whether it is possible to return the credit, and with his decision is conscious of man's distress, knowing that his own profits are secured, regardless of anything. This package of proposals provides an opportunity for compromise, including all the interests involved. My belief is that there should be no abuse of the ignorance of others and the consequences of their actions. That is why I am calling for a system that allows bankers to continue to be irresponsibly and to live up to the expense of our citizens. I would like to thank colleagues from the Commission for Development/About! The new Unity and the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union, which supported the proposal in the Commission... which is a mechanism of the Ministry of Finance. I therefore call on the others to consider and support this proposal as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U107	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal submitted by Finance Minister Jānis Reira! Please vote mode! For - 51, for - 34, for - 2. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U108	2. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal of the Group on Homeland and Freedom/LNNK. Provision shall be made for the possibility for the employer to grant a child birth benefit of EUR 250 to his staff member for each child born in the same birth, provided that the allowance has been paid within six months of the date of the birth of the child. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U109	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U110	3. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. This is in line with proposal 1. Therefore, it would be appropriate to support the hearing even though the Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U111	Members have requested a vote on proposal 3. Please call me! Please vote in favour of 3. - the proposal submitted by Finance Minister Jānis Reira! Please vote mode! For - 43, for - 30, for - 6. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U112	4. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Includes a second concept. The Commission was supported, but in order not to create a legal wedding it should be put to the vote and rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U113	According to the opinion of the Legal Bureau, given that proposal 1 has been approved at the Saeima sitting, proposal 4 and also later proposal 16 cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U114	Thank you very much to the President for his clarification. 5. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. This is related to 1. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U115	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U116	Hello, dear colleagues! Yes, I am somewhat confused with this proposal, not with this proposal, but also with the examination of previous proposals, where the committee's text was put to the vote, where it actually happens that... I do not know if the Members themselves noticed what happened. It follows that in insolvency proceedings of natural persons, when forced expropriation of real estate by the insolvency administrator of real estate auctions takes place... By forced auction, in fact, after some amount of money has been collected, which is mostly for reduced value, the value of the quick sale, the State Revenue Service still has to pay a tax of three per cent. This is a new tax. Before that, all the money went simply to the creditors, and there's still some kind of tax in the middle. It's actually... the objective has been to ensure that in some cases there is also some form of capital increase, in very rare cases. Where you've heard that there's been a coercion... Therefore, in the context of sales auctions, what debtor has ‘passed over’? I do, for example, have cases like this... Well, maybe they are, but I haven't heard of them. And now the Saeima... I think that it is not clear to everyone here what is actually being voted on. I therefore call for us to stick specifically to the texts voted on by the Commission in the following way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U117	We are following the debate on proposal 5. Name to Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U118	Yeah, thank you. So colleagues, well, I can congratulate you, you have voted a new tax, most of you. I have to say, applying for so imprecise and so non-professional questions... Well, I guess it's no surprise if we know who did it. So, as I congratulate you... then with a new tax. I will quickly explain the substance of the matter. Thus, in the present insolvency proceedings, it is possible that, if there are several properties, if they are sold and if there is a capital gain effect there, that may be that when the insolvency proceedings are closed, all obligations towards the creditor have been fulfilled, the insolvency proceedings are extinguished, so that after a certain period, for example, there is a notice from the SRS that personal income tax has been calculated on capital gains if, for example, a property is sold and there is a sale price higher than the purchase price, the delta from which it can be applied is formed. This happens in very, very rare cases, because first of all, the primary housing has been sheltered from sale and there are very rare cases where there are some other, third properties, and very, very rare, there is a capital gain effect there. But there are individual cases, and let us say that to correct it, our “good Ministry of Finance” (in the following“good ministry”).... They have now come up with a new tax that, by nature,... They have come up with a new tax that goes not after that delta that arises when selling, realizing the property, but they go real after gross income, for example, when selling the second, third property... now there will be three percent gross income, immediately going to SRS before all creditors, all banks and so on. So our SRS has now found a way to jump in front of the whole chain of creditors with your help - thanks, yes! - So get in front of the creditors. What we offered together with the Ministry of Justice is that in these individual cases, let us say when this effect of capital gains is born, that the country tells for its own part... We're not going to send any tax signals, so SRS... These are very few... a few cases, and that was our solution. You voted for the fact that the Ministry of Finance will now be able to collect three percent of their realised assets before all, all creditors, and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U119	We are following the debate on proposal 5. The name to Member Karin Scratch. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U120	Hello, colleagues! I would like to add Mr Feldman. Of course, I agree, it seems to me that what happened now is simply unprecedented. And exactly so, I will explain with a real object that is now in the auction. For example, the reason why the auction was organised is real estate tax, for example, EUR 300. So big is debt. Real estate goes now up to tens of thousands of euros, is already offered... from people. It's the difference... people still have to pay tax on this difference. A man for 300 euros... You can just imagine, man has no 300 euros, maybe this land property is an inheritance, and here you are opposed to both your party programme - I am now turning to the CPV LV, who has just voted in favour of this proposal and supported it. You promised people not to wear the only house, and if the UK was talking about the primary one, then you simply now took away the property and still taxed it on income. I am sorry if there is an opportunity, indeed, to bring this bill back to the Commission and look again, because I think it is simply the greatest mistake that could be made today, knowing how difficult it is for people to live now. They can neither pay rent nor quality food to eat. And you still tax them with extra tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U121	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Uldis Budric. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U122	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I do not really understand what happened on the first proposal, although I understand that the Ministry of Finance has come up with a way to raise taxes. We have seen several times how things like this are being directed, but this is a rather shameful way to try to get the cream off during the code. Madam President, indeed, I have a proposal: since the proposal that has been voted on... in the commission, then bring it back to the commission, re-examine this issue, because indeed this is such an unprecedented case - to raise taxes during the community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U123	Let us first close the debate on proposal 5. Let's go. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U124	Yeah, maybe... I liked Mr Eglitis, who was also working on the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, to mark what really happened here now. To be honest, I do not believe - I do not believe! - that the Members who voted voted had now voted on the Commission's proposals (the Members were supposed to vote strictly after the committee had voted) that they were generally aware of what they were voting on. I think that the groups are starting to ask each other what we have actually voted on? - begins to open a table of proposals and begins to read versions. Well, I don't think that's really good. In this respect, of course, I am very, very disappointed that, in general, the Saeima can work at this level. So, in line with the Rule of Procedure, I join Ulda Budrik's earlier words and call for this bill to be re-presented... back to the commission... stop watching it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U125	We are continuing the debate. Name of Member Iveta Benhena-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U126	Thank you very much to the previous debate. I see that the bill has finally been opened and studied... Well, basically. And I wanted to add my own hand and make it clear that we now have to pay a capital gains tax of 20 per cent. This offer replaces it by three per cent gross of the transferred property, which is strong, significantly less. And let us also remember that this proposal provides: in the event of insolvency proceedings, for a citizen who has taken the single house credit, this obligation is not calculated at all... It's fired. That's one. Second. To work for the commission. If we look after the procedure, then the committee split its votes: five - against, five - in favour, two abstained. This means that this issue is not clear. There were, therefore, five for, five for, five for and two for abstaining, which constitute an automatic rejection of this proposal. Here, obviously, there has been work in political groups in the past, there have been assessed, there are a set of priorities that are really important to us, whether we continue to defend bankers who simply do not assess the documentation that was previously needed for profit and make decisions regardless of anything. Whether we could really repay this loan or not - it is a question of responsibility - it is a question of where we want to go. If we take in such a simplified analogy, then it feels like this: if in a class where 30 children are studying, one is a failure, then we leave the whole class for the other year so that this one child, who is a failure, can feel good and, as you say... Because the knowledge, as it says... repetition - mother of knowledge. Well, that's not the case. We need to create a system that motivates people to assess, which also motivates responsibility, how professionals to make decisions. As we know, there are quite a number of different prerequisites for both evaluation and risk management. Well, it must be concluded that, unfortunately, until now, this has obviously not been important and has not been taken into account. Because - what difference to assess and see if, when lending money, can be recovered or can not be recovered if there is a mortgage. Well, it's just that simple. Perhaps there should also be an opportunity to make sure of the quality of the experts, perhaps of some standards or other things. There's really a lot to do here. And thank you very much, colleagues, for opening this bill at least to the Saeima sitting and seeing what we are doing in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, because we are doing a lot and very important things there, although complex, I agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U127	Colleagues have still applied for a debate on proposal 5 and only then can we decide on this procedural issue - in accordance with Article 136 of the Rules of Procedure on refer the draft law back to the Commission. But the clock is already 3 p.m. Consequently, we can proceed with the examination of the draft law after an on-going break. Only registration of participants. It has been successful. So the break in the sitting by 3.30 p.m., colleagues. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U128	Dear colleagues, We will continue to examine the agenda for the second remote emergency session on 4 March this year. I would remind you that on the agenda the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”” and we remained with the debate on proposal 5. Dear colleagues, As the proposal to refer the draft law back to the commission responsible for examining it was put forward during this debate, we will finalise the debate on proposal 5, then the rapporteur will speak on behalf of the commission, and then we will vote in favour of the commission responsible. And one Member can talk about this proposal, one against and one against. And then - depending on what this decision will be - either we will continue to examine this draft law, or this draft law will be returned to the commission responsible for the proceedings. So we are continuing the debate at the moment. John Butāns and Gatis Eglitis also applied for the debate. Colleagues! You have the opportunity to apply now electronically in the debate on proposal 5... Again... system. Name to Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U129	Thank you. I will stress once again what has been adopted by our first votes. So here's the exact deception... I know that perhaps many of you thought, listening to the rapporteur, in that story, that the IIN was reduced from 20 per cent to three per cent. It's completely misleading, because we're talking about absolutely... two different tax bases. First. But, above all, the proposal of the Ministry of Justice and, consequently, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, which was supported, intended to withdraw from the IIN at all... in total, zero percent of the IIN... insolvency proceedings. And what has now been voted on is to create a new tax base... Charging... the tax base. So go away from those 20 percent that were very, very few cases only, where there was a capital gain effect when selling the property; they... There are very few cases. Now expand that whole base... and now go to the formula where each property disposal... then immediately there will be three percent going to SRS. So, first of all, we offer to give up at all... Zero IIN insolvency proceedings, as is already the case in other cases - zero percent... and, secondly, not to allow us now to extend this tax base to all the properties that were disposed of and imposed there... Three percent... the gross high rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U130	Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U131	Hello, dear colleagues! Thank you to Mr Eglīts for his explanation. And I think that's the explanation about... in particular on the contentious proposals... should be submitted to the rapporteur. But I'll turn... I will reflect on what my fellow Member, Benhena-Beeken, said. And yes, I really believe Iveta together... Member Iveta, along with her group colleagues, discussed, examined, as she said, set priorities... put priorities... That's... how to keep your comfortable sitting in this parliamentary term, and figured out... Colleagues decided that by supporting the reironomics miracle and the introduction of a new tax... maybe my colleague Reir will be more favorable and will take another CPV LV Member under his authority. Well, a completely adequate conclusion from the CPV LV fraction. I also understand that both the New Unity Group and the Development/Par! Group. who voted in favour... in principle - the plundering of people, in particular, the vote of those who are in certain difficulties, well aware of what they are voting on, why they vote, to whom it is beneficial... and is not beneficial for people. But that will not be the first time, we have had all kinds of gambling lobby, all kinds of other interests. Let's get through it. But I really am not sure about other colleagues that there was enough in-depth research, especially in the light of the non-professional nature of this rapporteur. And I really call for this mistake to be returned to the Commission, for it to be reviewed again, and then also for those Members who may have made their vote on the basis of the information provided by the rapporteur... It will be time for them to go into the field and prevent theft of people from being subjected to a shameless additional tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U132	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U133	Dear President, Dear colleagues, There is also a certain contradiction. This proposal 5, which seems to be exempt, is now in contradiction with the same one that we have already voted (Minister Reira) and which is subject to taxation. As the rapporteur said, banks need to be more carefully analysed before granting loans. But the question is, does the Ministry of Finance not need to analyse more carefully? They predicted this year's boom or increase... economic. And then who is this natural person in this insolvency proceedings? It is a normal person who may have taken some credit to build a house; he has paid a whole amount of tax - both excise duty and value added tax on materials, on wages, on people... and he's losing his job - not his desire. He loses his job in fact as a result of some kind of liability. We can say that the country is not responsible for the economic crisis. I looked at GDP figures for 2020 - last year. And I look at it: China, for example, has a 2.3 percent increase, Turkey has 1.8 percent... economic growth... GDP, and the euro area, as usual, is at the end: France has minus 8.2... and even Germany has minus 4.9 percent... this economic growth. So who's responsible here? It was rather strange to listen to the banks to plan better. And there's no major disaster if we take those few percentages away... and, let us say, the surplus there will certainly not be any, because the property has a rapid valuation and will be sold under the price. But also the creditors... In other words, what are those creditors? Banks will also get only part of it if they get something at all, because first all court expenses have to be paid, the costs of the bailiff, unpaid taxes and so on, other obligations have to be settled, and only then creditors will get their money. But what's funny, then what are those banks... What kind of money is there in those banks? That's our money. Banks are no longer isolated from people. It's human money that... just lose the money they have lent or lose some of that money... and again, not to blame for its own fault, but for the economic recession that has resulted from the failure of the economic planning policy or... In fact, the result of public policy as such. And the last thing I want to say. There's such a sad moral thing here. If we do this proposal 5... Looking at how it came into being... So it's... i.e. the article in question... I'll tell you now... Article 9... 35.5... As a continuation... 35.6... So make sure it's 35. ... in the current version... it was already created as a result, or... as a reference to the 2008 crisis. Then we come out as follows: we start, let us say, with this exemption, we took into account the 2008 economic recession, and now suddenly we conclude that, on the contrary, we can as if tax people, yes, because here we are no longer referring to that recession, even though it is. So... I think there are a number of problems here, but it would not be right, from a moral point of view, to increase these taxes in a crisis situation. In any case... I think that those people who really took credit in good faith - in the hope of this economic prosperity, which was intended for them both by the Bank of Latvia and by the government, who referred to various external circumstances... But, as I said, it is not right, because some countries are not prevented from getting any growth in gross domestic product. So it would not be right in this case - the country to come and increase taxes. So obviously the only way out is to go back and vote... to vote on this proposal again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U134	Name of Member Iveta Benhena-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U135	Thank you very much to colleagues from the UKP. Yeah, it's really about people. And, I must say, bankers are people too. That is not at all questionable. But there's a question about what kind of -- whether they're teachers or bankers, because... I have to ask you: how do you plan to find the money in the budget for the educators? Well, we can cut things off, we can make sure that people... in principle they have more money, at the same time they pay for all the services. We can also go that way. But I don't think it's... The absolute version of capitalism is the best. Yes, it must also be said that this proposal for a mechanism in the Ministry of Finance provides that those citizens who have taken credit to buy their home are not calculated, they are granted this relief. They have zero exactly as Gatis says. And those who, most probably, as well as the commission were said, have used... As a natural person... to engage in real estate “sport”, amateurs... Well, they could probably have problems. In this case, it was also identified that there are now exactly 10 such people. So I have a question: are they your acquaintances? Why is that indignation? I would also like to remind you that the Legal Commission supported linked draft laws. Well, just so... Then is the question very interesting. Here we go. I therefore call for support for proposal 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U136	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U137	Colleagues! I'm listening here... That's a big little bit of a thing. At the end, it's hard to understand. Capital gains are mixed with capital. Well, like... That's one. I will say this quickly mathematically: 20 per cent of the increase in capital, which is, for example, EUR 100, will be EUR 20. Three per cent of the capital or the value of an apartment... For example, out of 50,000, there will be 1500 euros. That's the difference... How much a person should pay the tax. That's one I don't understand. The other one being confused. It's talking about banks all the time. But human insolvency can already occur due to various circumstances. It doesn't have to be a credit, he can stay suddenly in debt for an unreasonably high real estate tax, he is forced to auction an apartment, flats... several, perhaps, and he still has to pay for it now, that three percent of the capital... because he has these apartments, but he has not been able to pay high real estate tax, he still has to pay extra. That's... But, as I understood from my colleagues, this tax is planned to be introduced to finance teachers' salaries. I didn't understand if its teachers' salary colleagues were going to raise now, or if... the funding planned from these unfortunate people, who may indeed have to separate themselves from their real estate during the crisis... are you going to increase its wages at their expense? This is not clear to me. I think this law is... Most Members have not even understood what this law is about, and I think this should really be seen again in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U138	The name of the Member Anita Muižniece for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U139	Hello, fellow Members, again! I certainly wanted to say thank you to Member Iveta, who must have understood his mistake with her first speech and called on us to support... Therefore, if we do not refer this bill back to the Commission for review, then we will listen to Iveta and support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U140	I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur want to add something or comment on the Commission's proposal 5?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U141	On behalf of the Commission, proposal 5 was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U142	Thank you. Dear colleagues, So... Please provide a section on the procedure. A number of Members have requested a vote to refer the draft law back to the commission responsible. And one Member can talk about it, and one Member against. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U143	Dear Members of the Saeima! I assume that all the previous debates sounded somewhat embarrassing, so I will illustrate to you, in the simplest words, the situation that this law can create. So the situation is like that. There are, for example, a new family, it owns an apartment of value, for example, 70 thousand, the value of quick sales - 50 thousand. Go on. They had just taken... either, or some year ago... credit to build for yourself a house. For example, they had taken 100,000. The house's up, the house's up, the house's up... Now the Covid crisis has come, there are insolvency problems, and that is the solvency problems. It is also necessary to... Notes that revenue is unlikely to be recovered, which means that this insolvency proceedings of a natural person must also be carried out in good faith. So the administrator... The first thing you're doing is you're getting to the so-called... There were two parts. The first is the bankruptcy procedure, where the assets owned by the debtor are sold out. So the first... of course, therefore, he finds that he has in principle built almost that house, which, for example, has the value of rapid delivery... Even though 100,000 have been invested there, it is not finished, put into operation... It's 50,000. And the apartment is also valued, as already mentioned, by 50 thousand. So, two real estates... technical. Of course, the administrator rubs his hands, works on the work and auctions these two properties for these values. And so you're collecting... Let's assume they go at the start price... both of these properties are sold. What's going on? It's found that... according to proposal 7, which is also contained in this draft law... in the next... Default... was... in the apartment the family had lived, and it is considered their place of residence, so it is not charged with personal income tax... during this insolvency proceedings. And that's the sum of those 50 thousand... collected for the new building that may not have been put into service, and so on... they have to be put in three percent... a new, new tax, that is, with EUR 1 500... must be paid into the tax. In addition, in line with one of the forthcoming proposals on tax collection... Consequently, the date on which the tax is due is considered to be the time when the court approves the auction act. Thus, an auction takes place, the property is sold, the money is received by the administrator and the tender documents are submitted for approval. In this case, the administrator must immediately retain from them 50 thousand more than 1500... not therefore creditors... but must be transferred to the State Revenue Service... tax on nothing in the state budget. So, in general... Even though the connection to that man... he had taken 100,000, he took the loan... plus all the other costs... Thus, the amount which he can direct to that creditor, for example, is already decreasing. Also, remember, his only residence has been sold. And in this case, of course... Who benefits? Gets the state budget. The amount remaining at the disposal of creditors was reduced. I think the whole story I just told you... I think that many Members did not go into what they were voting on. Therefore, taking into account also the inconsistent reporting by the rapporteur, where... she says, for example, that this should be supported... I agree: this proposal 5 should be supported... What we talked about before. I call on the Saeima to repeat this draft law... So, back to the Commission to review these proposals once again. That's it. Overall, new taxes and new taxes are not to be supported during the crisis. People who had taken some kind of credit by relying on some economic growth could not expect, for example, that everyone would lose their jobs in food or retail, or in any other sector, and that they would have to undergo this process of personal insolvency. And here they say... There's something they say banks would pay... And something else... If you have already paid the bank, please tell me why, for example, the third proposal provides for income from... that primary housing... Well, "the only" - here is used... that the immovable property of the place of residence is not subject to taxation. Clearly, it's paid by a man. I call for a return to the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U144	Return of the draft law to the commission responsible for its consideration... Mr Atis Zakaitistov will speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U145	Hello, colleagues! I have to say that I am a little surprised at Gatis Eglīte, because not only in this sitting but also in other sittings is Gatis Eglitis bravely standing in the Commission - one against the whole world. Well, as such a fiscal preacher, with his only truth. And now it turns out a little weird. Doesn't agree with Gat's only truth in the sector - does not agree with bad heretics. Do not agree with Gat Eglīlis' only truth, the Ministry of Finance, the bad heretics. Doesn't agree with Gat Eglīlis' only truth commission, the bad heretics. Now the Saeima, see, does not agree with Gatis Eglitis and his only truth, so... Let's say, bad heres. And the question that we have to ask, especially now, is whether this should be sent back to the commission or not, is the question - what to do with the publisher? Could it be that the only truth of the preacher is a mistake? What can we do now if one publisher is not heard? ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U146	Colleagues, I'll intervene, though. However, I call on you to talk about the draft law and about the problem that you have, and not to the Members for each other.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U147	I call for the rejection of going back, because sometimes there is a very fine line between the preacher and the moonshirts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U148	Colleagues! So one Member has spoken in favour, one against the referral of the draft law to the commission responsible. We will vote in favour. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Personal Income Tax” to the Committee on Budget and Financial (Tax)! Please, let's vote! On - 49, against - 43, refraining from - 1. The draft law has been returned to the commission responsible for consideration - the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Colleagues, that is why this decision has been taken. The agenda of the sitting will be examined further. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U149	Hello, honourable parliamentary colleagues! We examine the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund” (No. 842/Lp13) at second reading. In the Commission, we have received six proposals. 1. - That's Mr. Kaspars's proposal. This proposal was not supported by the Commission, because the forced work that Mr Girgen spoke about in this proposal is not permitted in this way. However, there is Article 170 of the Criminal Law, which criminalises non-payment of maintenance. And one of the punishments for such a violation is forced labour. According to the information provided at the meeting of the Commission, the criminal penalty - forced labour on child retention - was applied to 35 people in 2020. On behalf of the Commission, I call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U150	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U151	Dear colleagues, In the Public Expenditure and Audit Commission of the Saeima this year, he listened to the evaluation of the operation of the Maintenance Guarantee Fund and the dynamics of the recovery of funds paid by the State from persons who deliberately avoided the payment of child support. The trend so far shows that the number of debtors for whom the state pays maintenance is increasing over the last three years: from 40 thousand in 2018 to 42 thousand in 2020. Public funds not recovered from €41 million in 2018 have increased to €43 million in 2020; one fifth of the amounts paid have been recovered. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, over the last three years, the recovery rate has increased by six percentage points - from 16 to 22 per cent - but the overall trend shows that public funds are being recovered too inefficiently. We need to think about effective additional instruments that make it more difficult for those who are not to pay their lives and contribute to the desire, on the one hand, to pay their children in good faith and, on the other, to pay back their debts to the State. These funds could be invested in other important areas, such as medicine and children's sport and education. Currently, the effective way is to initiate criminal proceedings, but with the current pace it would require at least 60 years to call all non-payers to criminalise. Prohibition of the use of driving rights is a good instrument, but it is not effective enough to significantly increase the recovery of public funds or reduce the share of non-payers. The past practice has demonstrated for many years that the country is unable to recover funds effectively enough, since some of the non-payers are long-term unemployed or operate in the shadow economy. We need to think about solutions that are stronger and more effective. On the one hand, the state must defend the right of children to a full life. On the other hand, we need to think about how to create a system that is as effective as possible to recover these budgetary resources. In this case, the right of long-term unemployed debtors to choose freely could be restricted in the interests of the rights of the child. The proposal will apply only to those who do not have any income and who do not have an employment relationship, as well as... where it is not possible to bring any other form of recovery against the debtor. Administration of the Maintenance Guarantee Fund in cooperation with the State Employment Agency could oblige debtors to choose the position appropriate to the qualification of the debtor according to the vacancies of the NVA, allowing also lower-skilled job opportunities, thus imposing an obligation on debtors to obtain the necessary debt coverage for their income. This would be the right step towards reducing the burden of the State in the future on the provision of minimum pensions, as this would allow individuals to be employed and paid tax contributions. Colleagues, I give you such a broader picture of how relevant this problem is, and once again I would like to draw attention to the fact that this problem is not being properly addressed and that an additional million euros are being allocated each year from the national budget, and it is difficult to recover this money from the victims of maintenance when they have absolutely nothing. And this is one of my suggestions. If we cannot recover anything from them, at least we force them into work. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U152	Thank you. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U153	Colleagues! I very much appreciate - indeed - that Members are tabling their proposals on this draft law. And Mr. Girgen is right. The numbers he mentioned are drastic, unacceptable, and ashamed of seeing them at all. I'll repeat it again. So: the country pays €4.5 million per month to children who are not paid this maintenance, which is about €120 per month. There is a total debt of EUR 345 million. And I understand the essence of Mr. Girgen's proposal - now in some way to make these angels up, the ring stronger so that it pays the child its money. But this isn't really legal. If it is fair to say, I myself feel that these debtors, the alimony non-payers, which we have 41 thousand (with the plus and every year the number is rising), - they have to be put in prison, in my opinion. Just as it happens in Germany: if you don't pay aliments for your child, prison, and that's it! Unfortunately, here we are different in this case... on this proposal. And this proposal was not supported, no Member supported it, there were a number of objections. And the next speaker, the lawyer for the profession, Mr. Judine, will certainly also explain what the Ombudsman's objections were about... on the fact that we are living in a legal state... And since that forced labor is not the right thing... But I very much appreciate that such proposals are coming at all - in what way we can get more out of these survivors and make them pay. And this bill in itself... It is essentially because we will allow the borrowers of debt in such a pilot project to get these debtors in their hands. Colleagues, this proposal cannot be supported, no matter what good ideas there are in the background... at the bottom. And, really, thank you for this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U154	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U155	Colleagues! I generally share Mr. Kaimiņa's view. And I would also like to thank Mr. Girgen for his proposal because... we cannot support it, but I think it is good that in our commission we are discussing issues and looking for innovative solutions. But why can we not support us? There are several arguments, I will name the main ones. There is Article 106 of the Satversme, where it is written: “The forced labour is prohibited”. It cannot be applied - according to the Constitution. The exception in the Constitution is the case where it is applied as a penalty by a court. Here we are talking about another situation. Hence, a person must not be forced to work in a forced manner without a judicial decision. This is a legal argument, but I ask you also to think about practical. There are people who would like to work, but they do not have the opportunities. This is a problem, and I think there's something to do here to help them find a job, let's say. There is a question that needs to be considered. But if there's someone who doesn't want to work, will he work if there's a decision? And think: If you were employers, would you like to get someone who will work for some time in your company to transfer money and support your children? Who needs such a staff member? I think that we could not solve the problem in this way either. When we work within the Commission at times, we hear proposals like this... different ways to make people more active in carrying out their duties. And I think we're still... we will continue to look for solutions, we will discuss. But this particular proposal cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U156	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U157	Yeah. That is indeed the case: it is Article 106 of the Satversme, which prevents us from supporting such a proposal. This proposal was not supported by the Commission. Please reject.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U158	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Ģürgen's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 9, for - 71, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U159	Yeah. 2. - The proposal of a Member of the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, Mr. Janis Bordan. This proposal provides that the payment of the maintenance is to be determined not from the date of receipt of the application for the new maintenance fee, but from the date of termination of the maintenance fee. This proposal was unanimously supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U160	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U161	Thank you. 3. - The proposal of a Member of the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, Mr. Janis Bordan. In principle, this proposal was the most controversial issue that we dealt with in the Commission, because it is precisely about this so-called pilot project, that these borrowers are attracted to. So... I'll tell you what it was. In that discussion, it was that there was an out-of-court debt driver at the commission meeting against such a pilot project... this commission, the Legal Bureau of the Saeima had even opposed, the Ombudsman's Office, representatives of the Council of Sworn Judicial Officers of Latvia. But, colleagues, I have to say to you that this is a political decision. And then we thought on these scales... Just as interests - the interests of the debtor or the interests of the child... Is that so? And politicians decided on the best interests of the child. In particular, this proposal has been supported. And representatives of the Ministry of Justice also invited to support this proposal and give an opportunity to... for one year... by attracting out-of-court debtors before the debt case is handed over to the bailiffs, try to recover the debts effectively from the non-payers of maintenance. In the Commission, eight Members voted 'yes', two voted 'no'. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U162	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U163	Thank you. 4. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. This proposal has been prepared and tabled to continue to motivate debtors to cover up against the country's build-up of these enormous maintenance debts. The proposal is supported. And here's also point 10 of the transitional provisions of the law... and the time limit laid down in the transitional provisions, which is... extended for a further two years... But... So, from the rapporteur's point of view, I should say that, from 2019... Paragraph 10 of the Transitional Provisions of the Law shall come into force on 26 April, which provides that legal interest will be extinguished to a debtor who does not cover the established principal debt to the fund administration within two years. I mean, just to say, if he cooperates, then he's being removed from the penalty for not paying these maintenance... the accumulated amount. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U164	Mr. Neighbour, you have asked for a vote as a Member. Isn't that a mistake? Are you really asking for a vote on this proposal?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U165	(Sound rupture) ... voting, I have not pressed any buttons.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U166	Well, then it's a mistake. No, no... because it turns out in the system that the Member was asking for a vote...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U167	I got another card blocked yesterday. Imagine...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U168	So, Member Kaimiņš does not ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U169	No, I didn't. No, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U170	Proposal No 5
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U171	5. - The proposal of a Member of the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, Mr. Janis Bordan. This is a technical proposal. The proposal is supported. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U172	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U173	Thank you. 6. - last one: a proposal from the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice, Mr. Janis Bordans. This proposal is supported by the Commission. This proposal provides for the addition of a new paragraph 12 of the transitional provisions, which provides that the previously supported Article 20 shall enter into force on 1 April 2021 and shall remain in force until 31 March 2022, as well as for the completion of the proceedings for the out-of-court recovery of debts initiated in accordance with the rules laid down in Article 20. Colleagues, please support this. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U174	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U175	Thank you. We have examined all six proposals. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U176	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund” at second reading! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U177	Yeah, colleagues... I still see... to the vote... Yes. Deadline for the submission of proposals... We set five days in the commission... is March 9, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U178	Thank you. So the deadline for the proposals is 9 March this year. Colleagues, let us finish the agenda of the sitting. There's one bill left. And then let's go on a break. So on the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Forest Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Dūklavs.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U179	Hello, colleagues! We work with Law No. 772 Lp13 - “Amendments to the Forest Law”. Draft law is ready for second reading. Six proposals have been received. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Tāls Linkaitis, in which he called for the addition of Article 4 of the Forest Law to Part 2.3 of the following wording: the right of felling of trees and the right of ownership of felled trees by railway infrastructure and related construction works (not to be heard) ... Within the framework of the construction process, the Ministry of Transport may transfer to the public limited liability company “Latvian State Forests”. This proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U180	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U181	2. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau which provides for the exclusion of an amendment proposed in Article 4... Article 44, first paragraph. This proposal is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U182	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U183	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This also applies to Article 4... Paragraph 2. And it is called for this amendment proposed in Article 4 to be excluded from the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U184	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U185	Proposal No 4. There was quite a debate on this proposal. And there has been a proposal from the commission responsible for the disposal of public persons... disposal of property and sale of real estate. Here, we can see exactly how it has been done, and how it will be in line with our legislation. And this proposal is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U186	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U187	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. And it also applies to the first paragraph of Article 44. And the Legal Bureau called for the exclusion. This proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U188	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U189	And the last one is 6. - a proposal. The Legal Bureau shall request the exclusion of the ninth paragraph of Article 44. And this proposal is also supported. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U190	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Forest Law” at second reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U191	The deadline for submitting proposals is two weeks - 18 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U192	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 18 March this year. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda of the sitting has been examined. Questions have been put to Members. Members Zarins, Agešins, Kucins, Rubiks and Orlovs raised the question “On the presentation of Covid-19 prevalence data and possible manipulations”. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins. Mr. Zarins, apply again in the system.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U193	Hello, colleagues! I think many of you noticed that yesterday, the Centre for Disease Prevention and Control published a witty video in which they explained all these vaccinations... the characteristics of the test in relation to co-heavy to rebut several myths. Much was really done successfully, but this information raised additional well - founded questions. When they were assigned to the Disease Prevention and Control Centre, they were unable to provide clear answers, although these responses should have been timely. Since this centre, the SPPC, is unable to respond by itself, we are forced to turn to and demand these responses from the Minister for Health, because it is possible that there will be no turnout that is not only by vaccination, but also by how the results of the tests are reflected. We can get some amazing things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U194	So we refer the question to the Minister for Health for a reply. Members Kucins, Goldbergs, Krišāns, Niconovs, Tutins and Ribakovs submitted the question “On the destruction of quality higher education in regions of Latvia”. Name for motivation to Member Edgar Kucin.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U195	Hello, colleagues! For almost a week now in Daugavpils and much of Latgale is that at various levels the issue of the future of Daugavpils University has been overshadowed even by the Covid-19. Although Daugavpils University meets all qualitative criteria set for universities in amendments to the University Law, the quantitative indicator, which provides for a minimum of four thousand students, may prevent it from maintaining the status of a university. Such amendments to the law will change not only the name of the university, but also the quality of education and scientific development; this will make a significant contribution to economic growth in the region. Amendments to the law, which may have such a significant impact on the development of one of the regions of the country, should be based on the results of serious research and the views of leading sector experts. At the moment, we have not had access to them. Therefore, I call on the Ministry of Education and Science to present Members to them before the amendments to the Law on Higher Education...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2206-U196	Thank you, thank you. We therefore refer the question to the Minister for Education and Science. Dear colleagues, we will continue to discuss the agenda for the meeting on 25 February at 5.30 p.m. So, at 5.30 a.m. - 25 February. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. We continue at 5.30 p.m. I closed my second remote emergency session on 4 March.
