ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! The Saeima of the Republic of Latvia starts its remote emergency session on 21 October 2021. On the agenda, reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law on investment firms presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Financial Conglomerates” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Investment Administration Companies” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and Their Managers” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Restoration and Resolution of Activities of Credit Institutions and Investment firms” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Deposit Guarantee Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection” (No. 1204/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission with responsibility for the Commission. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Law on the Platform for e-Function Solutions” be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Implementation of the Joint Master’s Study Programme “Strategic Border Management”” be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Disease Management Act” presented by Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis, Evija Papule, Ramona Petraviča, Erika Pucena and Kaspars Girgens (No. 1207/Lp13) transferred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, with responsibility for the commission. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U2	Dear colleagues, Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Members of the political party “Republic” are appealing to you for a proposal: in addition to so-called interoperable collective certificates, to create a national or domestic certificate and to grant this national (internal) certificate on the basis of an antibody test, i.e. those people who have overloaded the covide but for whom it was either asymptomatic or for some other reason had not been officially registered. Just a month and a half ago... One study found that, one and a half months ago, according to statistics, the percentage of congestion among the Latvian population was about 23 percent, although only about seven-eight percent were officially recorded as congestion. So, colleagues, we are talking about many hundreds of thousands of Latvians. There are some important reasons why such a proposal should be supported, but first of all, colleagues, let us talk about whether it is, to say, good science or not. It must be acknowledged that opinions differ. For example, British immunologists, when comparing natural immunity with immunity derived from the vaccine and weighing all “for” and “for” against, conclude that there is very little information about both the duration of the vaccine and the duration of the natural immunity, but that it is likely that (the English word for “likely”) that vaccination will give many people more effective protection than naturally acquired immunity. Colleagues! It is important to understand that scientists, at least British scientists, are not sure enough to say that the vaccine is definitely better than natural immunity. Another example: The former American Food and Drug Administration (it is a similar institution to our SPC) Commissioner Scott Gotlyb, who is also a member of the Board of Pfizer, has recently pointed out that the question of the so-called natural immunity that has been acquired by overloading the community should be included in the debate on policy-making for so-called teammates, that is, the same certificates, and so on. He concludes (I quote): “The facts demonstrate that natural immunity provides lasting protection.” It is also concluded on the basis of one Israeli study, which is the largest study on the effects of vaccines and the effects of natural immunity in time. Israel concludes that the so-called natural immunity gives greater protection against the community than even “Pfizer” vaccines. Therefore, there is no clear scientific conclusion that immunity derived from vaccines is better than so-called natural immunity. But above all, my fellow Members: if we are talking about all those people who have not vaccinated and refuse to vaccinate, then it is clear that a very large part of them are precisely those people who have shrunk but have not officially registered it. Since the government has never tried to find out in its “smartness” why people are not vaccinated, it is clear that at least a large group, since they have been overloaded in the past, this is a very serious reason why they are not vaccinated. And by giving them at least as long as they have enough antibodies, such national certificates, we colleagues, will get them out of its principle group of anti-vaccines. And, colleagues, this, I think, is very important to raise the overall level of immunisation in our country. I call on you to support the referral. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U3	Mr. Aldis Gobzems has applied to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U4	Good morning, colleagues! Good morning, Latvian society! Vyacheslav Dombrovskis must not remember in history the time when codes were also shared among people. I will remind you that in Nazi Germany the codes were shared among the Jews. What is the difference in time? The future will show them. But now there's a lot of similarities! In particular, the Ramirent fences – the fences that protect the virus in supermarkets – are one of these illustrations, fully in line with the time when the Jews could not walk by the trotula or sit in the park on a bench.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U5	Mr Gobzem, I call on you to avoid this kind of comparison.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U6	But they're real, Mrs. Le Gallas! They're real! Go to the supermarket. I understand that people from the Saeima Presidium don't go to the supermarket, but go, check it out sometime. And the other thing. I read a number of messages this morning, I've already been written off by the voters... I quote (this is quote!) : “In Latvia, all of you pass through alien infected saliva in Gulbja’s laboratory machines so that you do not have to leave jobs or schools “on a voluntary basis” (footsteps). The family doctor is told by phone that there is no berry and taste, that you are sick, that after two weeks you get a QR code and you can take 180 days without a ankle. If you're anonymous, I know quite a lot of people who choose to extort the laws of the idiots and violate their moral values because of the laws of these idiots without being hypocritical... and be true, open, openly saying that they lie and smack to recover their ability to choose what to do with their body at least for half a year for 25 euros. By the way... “
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U7	Mr Gobzem, this quote violates the ethics of the Member. Please call me! Vjačeslava Dombrovskis, Evija Papule, Ramona Petraviča, Erika Pucena and Kaspars Girgens will vote for the draft law “Amendments to Covid-19’s Law on Proliferation Management”! Please, let's vote! On - 36, against - 48, refraining from - 2. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the member Kaspars Ģirgens, Vjačeslavas Dombrovska, Evija Papules, Erika Pucens and Ramonas Petravičs be referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission as the responsible commission. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Kaspars Ģirgens. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U8	Hello, colleagues! Currently, by order of 9 October of this year of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 720 Promising the emergency situation means that some unvaccinated workers will choose to end their employment relationship in order to qualify for unemployment benefits. And it is not about people being unskilled or unable to perform their duties. This is a broader issue. Paragraph 5.3 of that order provides that, if the employees of public or municipal authorities or their capital companies have not been vaccinated before 15 November of that year, or... those who do not have an interoperable certificate will be suspended from carrying out their work duties in accordance with Section 58(2) and (3) of the Labour Law, leaving them without means of subsistence, and the employer will be entitled to terminate the employment legal relationship with these employees on the basis of Section 58(7) of the Labour Law. However, in cases when an employee terminates his employment legal relations on the basis of Section 58(7) of the Labour Law, the employee automatically loses the basis for obtaining the status of the unemployed person, as well as for receiving the state social benefit in the event of unemployment. In fact, the order and the rule contained therein on leaving unvaccinated workers from work can be compared with the trap, since these people will not be able to receive statutory compensation for dismissal from the employer and the unemployment benefit granted by the State until three months later. It must be understood that all this applies to the autumn and winter months, when people have to pay for heating and have made substantial increases in energy prices. This situation will affect a rather large part of society and will have serious social consequences: there will be a rapid increase in the poverty threshold, people will be deprived of livelihoods. The draft law provides for supplementing the transitional provisions of the Law on Support for Unemployed and Job Seekers with paragraphs 25 and 26, providing that from 1 November 2021 the right to the status of the unemployed person or the status of a person at risk of unemployment may also be acquired by persons who have lost their status as an employee and for whom the loss of this status is related to the order of 9 October 2021 of the Cabinet of Ministers. 720. Supplementing the transitional provisions of the law with these points would ensure that these persons could also obtain the status of unemployed person or job seeker, which means that... they are able to acquire the status of unemployed or job seeker, are able to be re-trained in the labour market and be able to seek employment according to their profession or, if necessary, re-skill. These amendments would also allow these persons who have obtained the status of an unemployed person to qualify for unemployment benefit in the Law on Unemployment Insurance... It must be understood that already today, in the context of the abovementioned order, the rise in energy prices, the rise in inflation and the complete loopholes introduced, social tensions in society have been tenfold and another unthinking decision will only increase the risk of poverty and increase the risks of internal security, as well as the number of suicides in our country. We therefore consider that, in support of this proposal, the persons who will be at risk of termination of their employment relationship in connection with that order do not... implementation would provide social guarantees. So, honourable colleagues, we do not provide any additional new benefits, we simply speed up this process so that people whose employment is terminated get the unemployment benefit more quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U9	One Member has spoken for. ‘ Against’ has not applied. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the commission the draft law “Amendments to the Law Supporting Unemployed and Job Seekers” presented by Member Ģirgens, Dombrovskis, Papules, Pucens and Petravičs! Please, let's vote! For - 30, for - 49, for - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the member Kaspars Ģirgens, Vjačeslava Dombrovska, Evija Papules, Erika Pucenas and Ramonas Petravičs refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Unemployment Insurance” to the Social and Labour Commission, which states that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Kaspars Ģirgens. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U10	Colleagues! Thank you very much for your vote. Your attitude has shown that you do not care about citizens' income and how they can get through this period better when the prices of all energy sources are rising. But let's try again. The Act On Unemployment Insurance provides that unemployment benefit may be received by persons who have ceased their employment relationship and have acquired the status of an unemployed person. On the other hand, the way in which the employment relationship has been terminated depends on when a person will be able to receive unemployment benefit. If the person has ceased his employment on the basis of his own statement, the unemployment benefit shall be granted from the date on which the unemployed person submitted an application for the grant of unemployment benefit, but not earlier than two months after the acquisition of the status of the unemployed person. The same procedure shall apply where a person has been dismissed from work in connection with an infringement. This means that in such cases the person will only receive unemployment benefits in the third month. Currently, if the employment relationship with employees is terminated for non-compliance with the above order... on the basis of the seventh paragraph of Section 58 of the Labour Law, the employer shall have the right to apply for an employment contract during the period when the employee has been suspended from work with paragraph 5 of Paragraph 1 of Section 101 of the Labour Law: the employee has grossly violated labour protection regulations and has endangered the safety or health of other persons. It is not clear how a person who has failed to comply with paragraph 5.3 of the order and who is working remotely may be at risk to safety and health. Thus, a person who has already been suspended from work for three months without maintaining his salary will receive unemployment benefit under the current regulatory framework only in the third month after obtaining the status of unemployed person. In other words, the person will be left without means of subsistence for a period of six months. It must be understood that this applies to the autumn and winter months, when people have to pay for heating and prices for energy. Such situations will affect a rather large part of society and have serious social consequences: there will be a rapid increase in the poverty threshold, people will be deprived of livelihoods. That's what I mentioned to you earlier... previous draft law. So remind you... This would certainly be necessary. The draft law provides for supplementing the first paragraph of Section 13 of the Law on Unemployment Insurance with paragraph 3 by stating that a person who has become unemployed after termination of his employment or service relationship on the basis of the statement itself or because of an infringement, if this statement or violation is related to the order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 9 October 2021. 720 Non-compliance with the “Advertisement of the Emergency”... from the date on which the unemployed person applied for unemployment benefit. Supplementing the law with the above would make it possible for these persons to qualify for unemployment benefit already on application for unemployment benefit... day. This would ensure that the person would receive unemployment benefits, so - the funds for their daily expenses. Social tensions in society have already truncated in connection with the above-mentioned order, the rise in energy prices, the rise in inflation and the introduction of the complete lounder. We therefore believe that, with the support of this proposal, social guarantees would be provided to those who will be at risk of termination of their employment relationship in the event of failure to comply with the above-mentioned order. I call on you to support the initiative of the political party ‘Republic’. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U11	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft laws “Amendments to the Law “On Unemployment Insurance” to the Commission” presented by Member Ģirgens, Dombrovskis, Papules, Pucens and Petravičs! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the member Ralfa Nemiro, Alda Gobzema, Ramona Petraviča, Māra Možvillo and Karina Sprūde be referred to the Legal Commission by means of the draft law ‘Amendments to the law on the order of the Saeima’, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Ralph Nemiro. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U12	Good morning, honourable colleagues! Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! It is not about cutting red tape, but about organising work. We divide the commissions among ourselves into small and large commissions, legislative commissions and supervisory commissions. And that's important. The European Courts Commission shall be the Supervisory Commission. In fact, we are looking at the various positions that the Cabinet sends us for approval. However, the Foreign Affairs Commission is a legislative commission. More recently, the European Commission for European Affairs had a specific situation: the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development came forward with a request to confirm her... In fact, the position of the Cabinet of Ministers that the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development should attend the meeting of the European Council was not confirmed. What consistency can this bring? So before... Minister goes with the position approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, it has been discussed between various officials and specialists, but in the sitting of the Saeima... and this minister goes to the meeting in Europe, and what does he represent? The national position has not been confirmed, so that he cannot really represent the national interests; he can only express his personal views. But, well, it's not exactly the direction in which you could work. However, the Foreign Affairs Commission is a legislative commission, more a decision-making commission. The merger of these two commissions would therefore lead to more effective work, and both the Foreign Affairs Commission and the European Affairs Commission are, by their very nature, the Foreign Affairs Commission and are dealing with our foreign affairs. A frequent guest in both the Commission and the other is Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs, in other cases, let us say, other ministers, who are directly related to the approval of the foreign position. So I would ask my fellow Members to refer this matter to the Legal Commission. These could perhaps be combined to make our work more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U13	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law tabled by Mr Nemir, Mr Gobzem, Mr Petravičas, Mr Možville and Mr Sprūde, Amendment to the law “The Rally of the Saeima”! Please, let's vote! For - 33, for - 51, for - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. Dear colleagues, We shall continue to see the agenda under the heading ‘On the granting of leave’. The Saeima Bureau has received an application ‘On granting of unpaid leave to Member Ilmars Dūritis on 28 October 2021’. Please call me! To be put to the vote on granting of leave to Member Ilmars Dūritis on 28 October 2021! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The application was supported. Unpaid leave is granted. On the agenda, under the heading ‘Conclusion of the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust’. Draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Alda Gobzems from the Parliament’s Commission for Sustainable Development. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U14	Good afternoon! I would like to emphasise that, as a member of the Saeima, I do not want to continue working on the Saeima Commission for Sustainable Development. I know that, as the most true opposition of the Saeima, the Saeima regularly adopts various sanctions and, at the previous sitting, it also rejected this case only because my name is Gobzem. But every Member has the right not to participate where he does not want to, and no one can force him to participate where he does not want to. I will also explain why. Because I believe that the Sustainable Development Commission is, in principle, a pointless commission. It's a pointless time. As far as I have been there, there comes from the State Chancellery officials, shows some pointless table called the National Development Plan, which no one has ever implemented and where it comes to multi-band highways, which will unfortunately never be - in our lifetime - in Latvia... and in that spirit. So that there's actually some document prepared by the official... Excel Tables... and so on. If this commission does not change the approach of looking to the country in the future and continuing with the same bureaucratic regime as it has been for all these years, then the added value of the time spent on this committee is exactly zero. Then much more the development of the country is helped by anything else, absolutely anything. Staying with the Saeima and speaking with a simple passer-by helps to the sustainable development of the country. That is why I no longer want to take part in the work of this committee, and even if you vote 'no' - as you did last week - I will not attend any of the meetings of this committee and I will not spend my own or taxpayers' time... and also money in the end, because go to the commission... There are distribution materials that I have to specialize in... what is taxpayers' money. At least we will not spend taxpayers' money in this section! Please support this case - like for each of you, colleagues, there have been votes that you can take part in the work of the commissions in which you wish to participate. I think I am not an exception, I also have to have exactly the same rights as you, and I can also take part in the work of the Saeima committees in which I wish to participate, and not formally to continue to be part of the Saeima Commission in which I do not want to participate and in which I will no longer participate physically. Thank you. Please vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U15	I closed the debate on this draft decision. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Alda Gobzems from the Parliament's Commission for Sustainable Development! Please, let's vote! On - 32, against - 47, refraining from - 1. The decision was rejected. Dear colleagues, We will continue to see the agenda. Title Three: ‘Provisions of draft laws’. Draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Gatis Zamurs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U16	Good morning, the head of the Saeima sitting! Colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law” (No. 1163/Lp13). We have received eight proposals for the second reading. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. On point 21(4) of the transitional provisions. Related to compensation for loss of supply services for subscriptions to press publications. Partially supported, included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U17	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U18	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. For the same transitional provisions. The Commission is, of course, in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U19	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U20	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. Point 21.1(4) of the transitional provisions. Also related to compensation for loss of supply services for subscriptions to the press publications. Partly supported by the Commission and included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U21	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U22	4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Point 21.1(4) of the transitional provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U23	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U24	5. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. Point 24 of the transitional provisions contained in Article 10 of the draft law is foreseen as follows: ‘The first paragraph of Article 31 of this Law shall apply from 1 January 2022 and the first, second, third and fourth paragraphs of Article 35.1 of this Law shall apply from 1 January 2023.’ Partly supported by the Commission and included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U25	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U26	6. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. It is planned to state point 26 of the transitional provisions contained in Article 10 of the draft law in the following wording: “The Cabinet of Ministers shall issue until 30 May 2022 the regulations referred to in Section 35.1 fifth paragraph of this Law.” Partly supported by the Commission and included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U27	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U28	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The previous two proposals shall be merged and incorporated into the draft law. The Commission is, of course, in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U29	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U30	And 8. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. Provision shall be made for the entry into force of the law in the following wording: ‘The law shall enter into force on the day following its publication.’ Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U31	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U32	We have therefore examined all the proposals. I call for support for the second, final reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Postal Law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U33	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law” at second, final, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Cielēns. Please! ( Pause) Mr. Cielen, we do not see or hear you. Request - could any of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) report on this bill, because Mr Cielen cannot fix the camera? Please, one of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commissions could... Is that so? Thank you, Mr Bondara.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U34	Good morning! Well, we work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”. 14 proposals have been received. At third reading, this draft law was supported. And so, right away... I'm just gonna open up everything I have to open up here. Consequently, 14 proposals have been tabled. Proposal No 1... I am very sorry, I was simply not prepared for this event.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U35	Thank you for taking over.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U36	Okay, one second. Let's open it up now. 1. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U37	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U38	2. - There's also John Reere's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U39	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U40	3. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Wittenberg. This time, however, the Commission is not in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U41	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U42	4. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Partly supported and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U43	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U44	5. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. This has, of course, been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U45	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U46	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. We are also generally in favour. So the 7th proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U47	Members support... 6.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U48	I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U49	Proposal No 6
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U50	6. - Legal Bureau... 7. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. We have also supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U51	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U52	8 / 8 - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U53	Members are also in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U54	8 / 8 ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U55	9.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U56	9, I'm sorry, I'm a proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U57	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U58	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U59	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U60	11. - a proposal from the Minister of Finance. Partially supported and included 12. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U61	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U62	12. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The Commission is supported. Please also support you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U63	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U64	13. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U65	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U66	And 14. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The Commission is also in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U67	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U68	Therefore, colleagues, we have examined all the proposals submitted for the third reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”. In the Commission, we have supported the draft law. You are also asked to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U69	Thank you, Mr Bondara, for your report. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Administrative Territories and Populations”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Territorial Reform, Member Juris Puce. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U70	Good morning, honourable Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, Highly respected colleagues! We work with Law No. 1171/Lp13 - Amendments to the Law on Administrative Territories and Populations at first reading. The draft law was submitted to the Saeima for consideration by the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission, but it was prepared by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. The task of the draft law is to solve the problems related to the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 21 June 2021 in a joint case No. 2020-41-0106. In this judgment, the Constitutional Court recognised, inter alia, that certain sub-paragraphs of the Annex to the Law on Administrative Territories and Residents are incompatible with Articles 1 and 101 of the Satversme as from 1 January 2022. In fact, it was found that the legislator did not point out any rational considerations as to why the creation of a new district of Upperdaugava and Jelgava municipality without a regional or national centre of development in that municipality allowed it to depart from the criterion underlying the reform and how the objective of the reform could be achieved. The legislator has therefore failed to comply with the objectives and criteria of the reform and has acted arbitrarily when establishing these regions, which do not have a regional or national development centre as defined in the national planning documents. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure in question does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. The Constitutional Court recognised that in order to achieve the objective of administrative territorial reform and to act systemically, uniformly and consistently, as well as to avoid arbitrariness, the reform is based on certain guidelines or criteria. These criteria were included by submitting the draft law to the Cabinet of Ministers, and the article defined the criteria, including those mentioned in the annex to the draft law. The Constitutional Court recognised in this judgment - 12 March 2021 - that, according to these criteria, the planned administrative territorial reform and the new territorial division and the existing criteria are aimed at achieving the objective of the reform through it. in accordance with the Constitution. So that... Deciding... individual specific applications... In this case, in the requests of Ilūkste Municipality and Ozolnieki Municipality, the Constitutional Court indicated that the established municipalities of Upperdaugava and Jelgava do not comply with one of these criteria, namely, they do not have a regional or national centre of development. After this judgment... It should be noted that the Constitutional Court indicated a transitional norm - the Saeima provided for a period of six months to deal with this issue together with the implementation of the Constitutional Court judgment and indicated that the Saeima law should be applied uniformly in relation to all activities of municipalities established in Latvia. For this purpose, the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission already in July asked and instructed the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development to prepare proposals for a possible solution model and discuss these proposals with municipalities. Such proposals were made. In a number of consultations - 9 and 13 September 2021 - the municipalities concerned were consulted... Three conceptual models were proposed for implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Court, and one of these models was prepared in the form of a bill, which was reviewed by the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission in its meeting, including the views of all the managers of the municipalities involved, as well as asked all the municipalities involved to present their decision on the prepared model and its compliance in writing by 29 October of this year. The draft law was therefore examined by the Commission. The Commission agreed to submit it to the Saeima and supported it at first reading. I also ask you to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U71	Thank you, Mr Pouce, for your report. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U72	Very respectful head of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, On this draft law, I would like to say that it can be looked at in different ways. We can look objectively, we can also look subjectively. But no matter if we look at one or the other, both of these views will not be flattering. If we look objectively, these amendments are hasty, ill-considered and, in my opinion, mistalised, and are in direct contradiction with the draft decision... the draft law that we adopted this summer in the amendments to the law on administrative territories. Moreover, I think they are justified by the need for false urgency, which I think is also justified by the way in which the authors of the draft law... without knowingly specifying the norms of the judgment of the Constitutional Court. There is also, of course, a subjective side, and it could simply be called a kind of, I do not know, revenge to other political parties, which had much better results in a number of these regions, but I will talk less about it today. Colleagues, let us approach this objective reality. So, first of all, there is no doubt... Only four months ago, i.e. 3 June, amendments to paragraph 29 of the Transitional Provisions of the Law on Administrative Territories and Accommodations came into force. In this point, we set the obligation for the Cabinet of Ministers to submit to the Saeima a report on changes in the socio-economic situation of municipalities every four years from 2022 until 1 May. The report shall also include an assessment of the benefits and losses resulting from the administrative territorial reform. The first of the reports should in addition include an evaluation and study-based information on the... Here I will list: “... the development potential of Saulkrasti Municipality and provide an assessment of potential regional development centres in Ventspils, Rezekne, Upper Daugsava, Saulkrasti, Varakļāna, Southern Kurzeme and Jelgava regions.” Such a task has already been done by law, and that is what we have decided in the Saeima with quite a large consensus. This means that we are not consistent, because just now we have decided that we will decide again on the changes to these areas only after an appropriate, substantiated, factual report is drawn up. We do not yet have such a report and justification, but we are deciding on amendments that will bring about a fundamental change in these regions. Do you think that this is not too hasty? I think it's not all ingenious here. Secondly. The local authorities were consulted on 9 and 13 September, as Mr Pouce said. Do you think it is possible to prepare a merger project qualitatively without this information that I mentioned above, which is definitely not at the disposal of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, and to discuss in respect the consultations with local authorities? It's cool to call the municipal members, to talk to them about what they think: one, two or three... whether there is a third option that is better to choose. But can these negotiations, by their very nature, be meaningful, constructive, and has the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development really offered quality merger plans? Have municipalities received objective answers to the questions asked? We were also able to make sure at the Commission's meeting that these opinions were very different, there was no consensus. For example, the views of Jelgava and Jelgava municipalities were quite the opposite. No one is in favour of this merger, which is included in this draft law. It is all about further analysis. We heard the same from Ventspils and Ventspils regions. We have heard various views in Daugavpils and Daugavpils district. Colleagues, in my opinion, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development could not even prepare qualitatively for these negotiations. It was a search for a subject, but not a qualitative, respectful dialogue. Thirdly. We are told that such urgency seems to stem from the judgment of the Constitutional Court on the reform of administrative territory. Colleagues, it does not appear from this judgment that we now need to move forward with such a draft law. From the judgment of the Constitutional Court... The judgment would state that we urgently need to decide, today or this year or next year or two years later, that we are uniting Jelgava with Jelgava Municipality. Nothing like that is written in this judgment. From the Constitutional judgment we can conclude only one key point that in this case... A point that does not match, therefore, is that the explanatory memorandum to the bill states that there should be a development centre in each region. Colleagues, I will remind you that, in the course of the examination of the draft law, led by various motives, Members of the Saeima... There was an initiative of the Greens/Farmers Union to come with new proposals, which would be new criteria, was the Law Office's vision that such criteria are not necessary in the law. At the end of the day, we ended up in an absurd situation where the criteria from the draft law simply disappeared. The Constitutional Court has not assessed the debate that was held in the Saeima, why they disappeared from there, but has accepted that it a priori means that the entire Saeima agrees with what was written in an annotation of the draft law, which members of the Saeima could no longer amend after this debate of the Saeima. And then it comes out that there is a need for a minimum condition - this centre of development is needed. Colleagues, this is a question. We have already voted in law to ask the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development to carry out an analysis, a fact-based analysis, where these development centres should or should not be, so that we can assess it together. But before we expect what we have decided on ourselves, we are now pressing forward. Colleagues, there was also a second version - to discuss where, for example, in Jelgava municipality or Ventspils municipality, to create these development centres and to move towards it in some way... To objectively assess, but at the present time - no, on our head, we move forward with these amendments, which concerns a much broader subject than the one mentioned in the Constitutional Court judgment. The Constitutional Court mentioned in the judgment only the Ozolnieki municipality and this region on the Daugavpils side, but there was no talk about Rezekne, nor about Liepaja, nor about Ventspils. Why have we forgotten Saulkrasti, for example, by this bill? Why is this not about the Saulkrasti or the Varaclanes? It is also objectively clear to everyone there that this criterion is not currently being met. Why are these not mentioned? But we take a chup with the cities and try to quickly distort something, hoping that we will thus objectively execute the decision of the Constitutional Court. Colleagues, just after municipal elections, new municipalities have not yet fully started their work. Would not consider the offer of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development about it... as if to be completed together... municipal functions, which in fact have nothing to do with common... such a lot can be counted - both the obligation to cooperate in the management of property, for which none of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development can tell anything in detail, and the merger of rural municipalities... potential problem situations that have not been investigated in any way but will certainly arise. Unfortunately, there are many questions, but there are still no answers. The newly elected councils, which currently have enough challenges to think about on a daily basis, include the creation of new structures, the creation of new development plans in cooperation with the same national cities... and cities to build their future development perspectives... But instead, we're making another bardack, my colleagues, somewhere on the head, running through the neck. The answer to why we do this, I think, lies in the fact that it is, however, a rather subjective thing and it is such a subjective assessment that we are not looking at and looking at the best possible solution here, do not really... we are not analysing insurmountable facts about the prospects, trends of the development of this region, we are just going ahead with a very harmful solution, in my view, which will harm regional development. It will harm Zemgale's development, it will harm Latgale's development, it will harm Kurzeme's development. Colleagues, we are in a fantastic situation, we can compare... We can compare the development prospects of the city of Valmiera and how this development will take place... We can compare it with Jelgava. We can compare Jekabpils district with Rezekne. We can do all this, we have this fantastic opportunity. There were the state cities that joined together, there were the state cities that did not unite, but at the moment it is quite sad that we are going in this way - I think more on the basis of emotions than the facts - and moving forward with a very unthinkable draft decision... which will affect both the urban population and the rural population in the most direct way. In this respect, this impact will, I would say, be in a negative direction, and much of Latvia's population has not seen any benefits since the reform. Colleagues, if we look at sociological surveys, support for the genetic reform among Latvian citizens is exactly two percent. Two percent of Latvians believe that this reform has produced some positive results. Most of them do not see it. And you, instead of people in municipalities fighting at the moment and thinking about development prospects, the challenges that are now, I think, not in quite simple conditions... You offer them... To shake again - to shake again! - local communities with the current reform, with no idea yet, because no one has a vision of how to live further in these regions, how to solve these issues. The dozens of questions come from these regions, which they have sent to you, to all Members, and we have looked at them in the Commission... who already have no answers. Instead, a simple decision is offered - let's combine it, then we'll see it! It's not that simple. It means a change in a real development perspective, it means a real job-destructive such... there is no further development. Instead of preparing an objective assessment. An objective evaluation that... The Saeima itself has requested that it be. The Saeima has played such, say, football in this regard. The football is... He played with us in the Commission on these issues of development centres. There was a proposal (from John Dombrava, also from other Members) that there was a need to identify development centres in these places, even a proposal where these development centres could be. At the end of the day, he said: no, we're looking at this question... must be seen in the development plan. The development plan said: another law... then somewhere else. At the end of the day, it was not defined anywhere, but at the end of the day, we are seeing clearly that there are cities that are ready to do it, that they want it, and that are regions that stand in front of it. There are situations like, for example, in Jelgava district, where both the city and the region are against it. In my opinion, these discussions should continue and should be based not on emotions but on evidence-based decisions. Maybe if we get to know these facts, we'll understand that the mistakes made are in Jēkabpils... Perhaps we will come to the conclusion that it is the other way round: we need to go to this and we need to combine it, and that is the right and best way. There are different practices in Europe. We are now, in a way, unique with this administrative territorial reform of Latvia. We are unique: we currently have one of the largest municipalities at least in the European Union. How is its management... whether in general the meaning and nature of municipalities will remain, the interaction between rural and urban people... These are issues that, in my opinion, call for a thorough analysis, which we have not done in the process of bringing the reform forward. Therefore, my fellow Members, today, I am calling for no support. Our group Members will certainly vote against this bill today. We believe that this is unthinkable. In a way, the initiators of the draft law mislead the Saeima by referring to the judgment of the Constitutional Court, and offer only one alternative in essence. There are others, so I call for this draft law not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U73	Name of Member Inga Goldberg. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U74	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, The resulting situation that is planned to be rescued by this bill can be described as that we have now ripped the quail. And we have all participated in it, starting with the responsible ministry, the drivers of reforms, we decision-makers, and the Constitutional Court has added its sharpness to it. I understand that the decision of the Constitutional Court must be respected and the solution must be sought; however, before starting work on this draft law, I would like to draw your attention to several aspects. Most cities are ready to join regions, but absolutely all of them are not. Either you avoid a clear answer. And it's important to understand why. And here I have two answers. The first is infidelity. The failure to believe that the situation could be different from the common national regional policy. If already the center, despite promises in words and beautifully written development plans, regional differences will only deepen. To say so, all the benefits fall in Riga, and it is moving away from the rest of Latvia in its rapid development. It is understandable that the residents of the municipalities see no difference and no justification that the same will not happen again around the newly created centres - the national cities. As evidence of different understandings between cities and municipalities, one example of the discussion at the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission’s meeting, when the head of the state town added that “we are ready to take over everything right away”. Not to cooperate, not to unite, but to take over. The second answer would be that the districts have already gone through the merger process after the municipal elections and know how complex and challenging this work was in such a short time, but the cities of the country have not experienced it. And when you hear that you're going to reform again, of course, your hands drop down. It will once again reform without really starting to work after the reform. The complexity of this merger is reflected, for example, in the recent seminar of municipal executives of Valmiera, Southern Kurzeme and Saldus. Of course, it would also be wise to wait and analyze the activities of Valmiera municipality and then take the next steps. I can’t get rid of my immorality by trying to understand how the proposed standards can be implemented in life. Already now state cities with neighbouring districts are planning development, implement projects and continue to operate civil protection committees. I do not see any problems here, because this has already happened before the reform. As joint bodies in the field of education and waste management, which is provided for in the law on administrative territorial reform, I have not really heard it. But this law provides that from 1 January 2022, the municipalities mentioned above must establish new, common institutions, for example, to manage the property owned by the municipalities and to ensure public order. For example, the current municipal law provides that all municipalities will have to have the local police, but only from 2024. And there are more than answers in the division of functions between the State police and the local government police. What if this law is adopted in this version, I really cannot imagine it. In addition, for example, common institutions will need to be set up in the organisation of public transport and the protection of children's rights. Does this mean that newly created orphan courts should be reorganized? The answers could not be heard in either the annotation or at the commission meeting for that time. But there is also a large emotional section in this situation. Ozolnieki municipality and Ilūkste municipality fought for their independence, but as a result, their independence will fall even further. The joy of victory in the Constitutional Court was quickly replaced by disappointments. By including these regions in a much larger area and combining with the city of the country, these regions and their citizens will reduce their political influence on the processes in the newly created area on several occasions. As you said, he ran away from the wolf, but he was in the bear. A little more note. I recall the wide-ranging discussions and the various agreements on the establishment of administrative regions from 1 January 2021. The draft law now provides for this to be done by January 2023. It does not honor either the legislator or the government - law-making, law-abstention and, in fact, such an example for society. However, despite all the above, I will support this draft law today, as errors need to be corrected. I hope that we will be able to really study what the people of these regions and cities say during this pre-election period and find the best solution together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U75	Name to Member Long Schuplinsk. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U76	Hello! Lobby dyna! Oh, my God! In fact, I also wanted to draw attention to some aspects that are certainly important in amending the Law on Administrative Areas and Populations. That is the first point that Mrs Goldberg has begun. Indeed, very precise in the law has already been recorded as a norm that these municipalities, municipalities and state cities cooperate in three areas, one of which is education. Given that I have quite a lot of experience with local authorities, I will say that absolutely... At least in Daugavpils and Rezekne... Perhaps these things are simpler on the Ventspils side - and only because, in principle, education opportunities in the Ventspils region are much less, because the number of people is less... Liepaja has its own problem again, and it still exists in Jelgava. The conclusion is that, in principle, this cooperation in an area as important as education is not currently taking place. Moreover, on 1 July administrative territorial reform started, but when interviewing the employees of the education administrations we see that such cooperation is not planned in the near future. This may be one of the grounds for the hasty of this law, as it is clear that in practice this law does not work. That's one thing. The second point that I would like to highlight in connection with this particular amendment to the law is that, in principle, at the beginning of the reform alone, it must be said, the scent of itself, that very many small municipalities protested not against the reform itself, but precisely that there is a lack of competence, based on forecasts, to finance a reasonable development for the future. And here, in this case, if we are talking about these five national cities and five regions, it is no longer a question of being as different as possible in terms of figures as possible, so it also seems very unthinkable in this amendment to the law that only the population is chosen as the only parameter. Each of these regions and national cities has its own development strategy, which has been and has been developed, and it is clear that there are also financial commitments there. If we are talking about Latgale, one of the most frightening factors that would prevent the city and Rezekne municipality from developing this collaboration is the huge amount of credits and debts of the city. And here we see again that, in principle, the one who taught... and, among other things, the network of schools in Rezekne region is arranged perfectly... what has taught it to do so will suffer from the fact that one another has simply taken loans, loans and has not repaid them in due time, which means that in this draft law, if we even foresee such co-operation (on the one hand, it is absolutely logical, because we understand that developing equivalent projects, it is not possible to attract investment if the municipality of municipalities is small in size according to very different parameters), but we should look at a much larger set of these criteria, which allows (if later this system of managing one county) to maintain certain quotas for the rural area, the county and the city. This successful or unsuccessful, effective or inefficient financial management and the level of debt existing in the area may have to be taken into account as one of the criteria. And the third thing, like Viktors Valainis and Mrs Goldbergs, kept it up to date. Yes, decisions of the Constitutional Court must, of course, be respected, but it is surprising that, when proposing these amendments to the law, we do not see any words about the view of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, for example, on the issue of Varaklani municipality. If we are already talking about this violation indicated by the Constitutional Court, that throughout the entire process of administrative territorial reform, the formation of the entity around the centre of national or regional importance is not respected, then this case is probably one of the most disgusting, which also requires a solution. That means... This is the first reading, and it is clear that the reform is complex and requires a great deal of responsibility both from the responsible ministry and from every administrative territorial unit involved, but at the same time, it must certainly be stipulated that the proposals for second reading are to be incorporated into a much more convincing way, as they are already shown in forecasts, which are financial forecasts, which are representation forecasts, which are also a certain forecast for economic development and policy defence in the region. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U77	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, what are you going to do, Mr. Pouce?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U78	Yes, I would really like to respond. There are several... In fact, all the speakers pointed out something about the work of the committee and about the process envisaged by the committee. First of all, I would like to thank all three speakers very much for the really obvious in-depth examination of the problem and the detailed expression of views that will certainly help in the future Commission's work in its decision-making. On certain aspects. So, first of all, there is no provision for urgent examination of the draft law, that is... three readings. It is clear that we are limited by the fact that, on 1 January 2022, if we do not amend anything as legislator, there is a very unpleasant situation: several settlements, the parish territorial units, are actually left without belonging to any territory of the municipality. This should not be the case, as this would mean that the municipality should not provide services in these areas, but their continuity is important from the point of view of human rights, but there is enough time and a sufficient time to submit proposals. We intend to listen to the local authorities and we want to call for the active participation of every Member who wants to take part in this process... work. Secondly. Two speakers mentioned... the question why this draft law does not address other sites that do not meet the criteria included in the annex to the draft law in relation to the creation of administrative territories, in particular - Saulkrasti novads and Varakļāni novads. It has to be said that this is a deliberate action, preparing the draft law, because both the Saulkrasti Municipality and the Varakļāni District have already decided on the procedure, how this issue will be dealt with, and the law sets out the procedure, therefore responsibility for the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, for example, in relation to the Saulkrasti Municipality... both the responsibility of the municipality and the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and the government with regard to Varakļāni Municipality. We expect these procedures to be carried out, and then the question of how to look at these areas would also be raised accordingly. A very important issue - which Members touched on - is the joint fulfilment of a number of functions included in this draft law for the period up to 2025, when the new territories are scheduled to start operations. There is indeed a debate here. At the meeting of the responsible commission of the Ministry, Members also took the floor on this subject. There will probably also be proposals on this at second reading, and there will be an opportunity to discuss these issues in more detail. This draft law at first reading was generally supported by the Commission. I also ask you to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U79	Thank you, Mr Pouce, for your explanations. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Administrative Territories and Accommodations”! Please, let's vote! No. -69, no. -13, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U80	The deadline for submitting proposals is 1 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U81	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 1 November this year. Draft law “Amendments to Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau officials’ retirement pension law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Normunds Gunna. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U82	Hello, colleagues! On 12 October, the Committee on Social Affairs examined and, with seven members voting in favour and four abstentions, supported the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the retirement of officials of the Office for the Prevention of and Fight against Corruption. The aim of the draft law is to ensure equal treatment of officials of the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau by establishing equivalent criteria for determining the length of service required for employees of other law enforcement institutions, which gives the right to a retirement pension. This objective is to be achieved by adding paragraph 7 of Article 3 of the Law, which provides that the length of service includes the period of active military service under the authority and responsibility of the Ministry of Defence in former departments and the security service of the Saeima and the President of Latvia. The amendments also provide for the delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to lay down the procedure for calculating the average monthly salary for the granting of a retirement pension. As I have already said, this bill has been endorsed by the Commission. I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U83	Thank you for your report. Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pensions for Officials of the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption”! Please, let's vote! No, 74, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U84	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 9 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U85	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 9 November this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Disposal of Real Estate Needed for the Company”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U86	Hello, colleagues! At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 13 October, the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Real Estate Needed for the Company” (No. 1135/Lp13). The aim of the draft law is to create a regulation for the acquisition of real estate necessary to meet the needs of the company in certain cases, in respect of which until now there has not been regulation. Thus, the draft law includes a solution for cases where land or construction is required to meet the needs of the company, which has not yet been entered in the land register, as well as when the owner of the immovable property to be disposed of has died. The Legal Commission has supported the first reading of the draft law. I call on my colleagues to support them.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U87	Thank you for your report. Members of Parliament have not applied for a debate on this draft law. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Real Estate Needed for Society’s Needs”! Please, let's vote! For - 77, for - no, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U88	The deadline for submitting proposals is two months, or 21 December of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U89	Thank you. So the deadline for the proposals is 21 December this year. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act’, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Lubova Švecova. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U90	Hello, colleagues! We work with Law No. 905/Lp13 - Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax, second reading. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission examined seven proposals. 1. - a editorial proposal from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Established at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission meeting on the basis of a proposal drawn up by the Ministry of Finance. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U91	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U92	2. - a proposal from Members Stepanenko, Svekova, Sprūde, Gobzem and Valaiņš. It is envisaged to supplement Article 42 of the Act by the nineteenth paragraph, in the following wording: ‘The reduced rate of duty of 0 per cent applies to supplies of mouth and nose lids which are: certified medical masks, non-medical (hybrid or fabric) facial masks, facial shields and respiratory equipment.’ The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U93	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U94	Colleagues! This proposal was drawn up and was presented last year... At the beginning of the year... at the beginning of this year, which was also linked to the difficult situation and the Covid-19 restrictive measures. The objective of the proposal is to make the masks introduced during that period more accessible to the public, so that their costs are not increased by value added tax through a reduced rate of value added tax. Given that the proposal was submitted at the beginning of the year, it... We had already offered the deadline last year... March 1st. Given that the draft law, together with the rest of the package, was delayed in Saeima's corridors, it was acquired topically only at present. However, given that we are going through the next round of restrictions and the introduction of restrictive measures among citizens, I believe that this proposal is still valid, and it is still acceptable, and so I ask colleagues to support this proposal as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U95	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the motion presented by Members Stepanenko, Svekova, Sprūde, Gobzema and Valaiņa! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 34, it's against - 49, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U96	3. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Prepared in accordance with the version submitted by the Ministry of Finance. And that's exactly... Legally more correct establishes: “The tax payable in the state budget, adjusting the taxable value of the goods for the packaging of returned drinks. A registered taxable person who, in accordance with paragraph 3 of paragraph 3 of Article 39 of this Law, did not include in the taxable amount of a transaction a charge on re-useable packaging of beverages to which a deposit system applies shall, when submitting a declaration of the tax year, adjust the taxable amount of the goods supplied for the value of re-useable packaging of beverages not received in the previous tax year and shall pay the amount of tax calculated from this value to the state budget.’ The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U97	Members are in favour. Dear colleagues, It's time for a break. Let us continue with this draft law after a break. At the moment, I would like to send you a message that there are two children today, and we congratulate our colleagues. We welcome the highly respected Janina Jalinska on birthday, wish you a nice day and strong health! Today's birthday is also celebrated by our colleague's honored Roman Money. We also warmly welcome our fellow Members Money, we want a nice day and strong health! Interruption until 11 a.m. Registration of Members. Registration is over. See you at 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U98	Dear Members, Honourable Members! We shall continue the examination of the agenda of the remote extraordinary sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 21 October 2021. Before the suspension, we had started to examine the draft law “Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act”. We are continuing the legislative report. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Lubova Švecova. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U99	4. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It was prepared on the basis of the recommendations of the Ministry of Finance. Editable. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U100	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U101	5. - also a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Become based on the position of the Ministry of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U102	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U103	6. - related to proposal 2. Given that this has been rejected, no vote can be taken.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U104	Yeah, so this is 6. - the proposal is not put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U105	7. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It shall be declared that the law enters into force on 1 January 2022. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U106	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U107	In general, the draft law has been approved by the Commission. I ask Members to support you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U108	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax". Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third, final, reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U109	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 26 October 2021.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U110	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 26 October this year. The next draft law on the agenda of the sitting - “Law on referendums of local governments”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Uldis Budriķis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U111	Hello, colleagues! Honorary Head of the sitting! I am pleased to say that the Commission has achieved this result - that we are looking at this draft law at second reading, given that, in such or such a form, an initiative on referendums by local authorities has been in the Saeima since 1997. This has been seen by five parliamentary term. I have great hope that this parliamentary term will lead to the end of this work. Between the first and second reading, we adopted the necessary amendments to all the laws of the registries, which relate to the fact that these referendums can also function in nature, and given that this year municipal elections were held, where voters were not attached to the polling station, but could be elected in any polling station in their constituency... In the light of this experience, the Central Electoral Commission has put forward a large number of proposals to incorporate them directly into the practice of local referendums. A total of 44 proposals have been received. Most of the proposals are editorial, both from the Legal Bureau on these registry issues and from the Central Electoral Commission, which are the proposals taken over by the Commission itself. Then I'll go through the proposals. 1. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Linked to the administrative context of territorial reform - aligning the term. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U112	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U113	2. - Commission proposal. Administratively, too, in the context of territorial reform - aligning the deadline. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U114	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U115	3. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Concept – to express the third paragraph of Article 4 of the draft law in the following wording: “The voting in a referendum of a municipality shall take place in the polling districts of a municipality and by electronic means, using the voting system of the Central Electoral Commission (hereinafter referred to as the voting system).” The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U116	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U117	4. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U118	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U119	5. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. Two types of referendums are envisaged: consultative and decisive. It should be mentioned here that, conceptually, this proposal is not a bad one and the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development also moved to such a vector at the very beginning of the examination, but Members... There were three circumstances when the decision was made. Firstly, the consultative referendum brings a parallel with the public consultation. Secondly, this would be an inefficient and costly way to obtain public opinion, given that the consultative referendum would be purely advisory. And thirdly, our non-governmental partners also pointed out during the meetings of the committee that the consultative nature should create an analogue of local governments that we also receive in the MyaBalss.lv initiative. Similar proposals are to be considered in the context of the new municipal law. In view of all this, Mr Valaiņa's proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U120	We launched a debate on proposal 5. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U121	Very respectful head of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, However, I call for support for this proposal because, as the rapporteur has already said, this proposal provides for two types of possible referendums: consultative and decisive. If we look back at the administrative time of consideration of the territorial reform, then there were the municipalities that formed the referendums, as population surveys that had a consultative nature. In some good municipalities, the Minister of the time, Mr. Puce, tried to illegally restrict... to limit the rights of these municipalities, but I think colleagues should be very clear about the fact that the municipality can, in accordance with the procedure laid down by law, form the opinion polls of the residents of the municipality for decision-making; this, in my opinion, would only contribute to democratic processes in Latvia. Yes, it costs some money; yes, it would be some kind of cost to the local and public budgets. But if we look at countries like Switzerland, there are various kinds of referendums going on all the time. If we look at how now... For example, how to organise a municipality, let's say, a public survey that is understandable to all, one that should not be called into question, then the best examples... either, for example, in Varaklani district, where they decided that they wanted to join Madona district; it was through these electoral committees... Well, what was equal... Well, the electoral process as such. But, my fellow Members, I, for my part... These three arguments do not, in my opinion, stand the line of criticism. I think that if there were an opportunity for local authorities to form consultative referendums, this would only facilitate the involvement of citizens in the work of local authorities. The municipalities themselves would also have an opportunity... Of course, today, today, there are already different ways in which municipalities can find out the opinion of the population (there are ways in which, without even being aware of the public, people can find out the opinion of one or the other issue using simple... working with data streams), but at the same time... such a clear question... whether it is for the construction of a building (such as a kindergarten or a school) or for the entry of a company into the city... That is, an issue that may require that people, citizens, not only in the ways prescribed by the law, which already exist, but... holding such clear referendums... And the people have the opportunity to put them in front of... By law put in front... citizens have the opportunity to speak before them, on which they can also convene a consultative referendum if necessary. It would be only welcome, and it would be very, very right, that, however, this referendum law would work in this way. Otherwise we may find ourselves in a situation... There is also a referendum law in our country. But, colleagues, try to remember when there was the last referendum that was held in the country! Now we can end up in a situation where we will have the law of referendums of local governments, but there will be no referendums, because all these administrative obstacles... and the range of questions that can be decided upon is that in real life the law will not work. If such a consultative, referendum could also be possible, this would, I think, motivate the local authorities themselves more often to involve people more actively in these democratic processes. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call on you to support this proposal and to move forward, at third reading, with these two types of referendums. I hope that this proposal will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U122	We are following the debate on proposal 5. Name of Member Inga Goldberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U123	Dear President, Colleagues! In his report, Member Uldis Budriķis has already explained why the Commission has taken such a decision - not to support Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposals for consultative referendums. I'm a little salt... In order to avoid the confusion that Victor mentioned, I would like to point out that Article 61(1) of the Law on Municipalities already in force provides that, on the initiative of the municipality's residents, the council or its chairman, a public consultation on issues relating to the autonomous competence of the municipality may be held for advisory purposes. And, as in the proposed proposals, it sets out which issues should be dealt with and which issues should not be the subject of a public consultation. On the other hand, the new municipal law provides for a significant increase in public participation, provides for various instruments, including those that could be considered as consultative referendums, but only... A lot of... Well, in a new quality and in a different format than that currently proposed by Mr. Valaiņš. At the Commission's sitting, hearing all the parties involved, as Mr Budriķis said... Having also heard representatives of civil society organisations, the Commission decided, however, in the draft law to regulate municipal referendums and unexpected consultative referendums, with a much more complex procedure, expensive and not binding on local authorities... compared to the instruments already available and planned to engage society. Therefore, on the basis of the above, however, I call for this - 7 and 8 - not to be supported at the moment. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal because, given that this procedure is not so clear, it means, on the contrary, that implementing these consultative referendums in this particular draft law could lead to... apprehend the draft law to move forward and complicated implementation of the law in life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U124	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U125	Yeah, as I said, of course... and I join Mrs Goldberg: there are already statutory forms of public involvement, namely the ways in which the public can engage in the decision-making process at present. Consultative referendum - that would be... strengthen... Yes, right, there should be work on the third reading, in addition to defining the whole process, but I think this would not be a great challenge. This would, however, be a more participatory mechanism, a stronger mechanism for involving citizens, especially at the moment, after a very unthinkable administrative territorial reform, when our regions are so large, and this instrument is even needed. And what's... these local government surveys... it is not as appealing as it would have been if, for example, such an advisory referendum. I think that much more people could be involved. Colleagues! I hope that I am not the only one who has such thoughts and that others will also support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U126	I closed the debate. Mr Budrik, would you like to add something else on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U127	On behalf of the Commission: the arguments have not changed. Thank you to the head of the commission for the clarifications. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U128	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Member Viktoras Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! For - 12, for - 58, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U129	6. - a Commission proposal specifying the cases on which municipal referendums (i.e. on a sustainable development strategy or amendments thereto) may be held, and clarifying editorially on which decisions of the Council (e.g. relating to the construction of new buildings) a referendum may be proposed. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U130	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U131	7. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. Also associated with consultative referendums. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U132	Yes, and there is no vote, because it relates to 5. - an unsupported proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U133	Thank you. 8 / 8 - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. This is also the case with the consultative referendums. There is no support in the Commission. And so, I understand, there is no vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U134	Yes, the 8th proposal is also non-voting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U135	9. - a Commission proposal specifying the time limits for initiating a referendum in connection with the Council decisions on the... construction of facilities. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U136	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U137	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by the Legal Bureau, which shall specify which persons are entitled to propose a referendum.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U138	The Commission was supported...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U139	Supported by the Commission. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U140	And the Members are in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U141	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Incorporated in 12. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U142	And in the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U143	The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the detailed rules for the application of paragraph 1 of this Article in is included in proposal 12.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U144	Yes, so partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U145	Partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U146	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U147	12. - Commission proposal. An important proposal! A percentage of the votes shall be fixed - as far as is necessary to initiate a referendum. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U148	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U149	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is a editorial clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U150	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U151	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. That too is a editorial clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U152	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U153	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. That too is a editorial clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U154	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U155	16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U156	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U157	17. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U158	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U159	18. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 19. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U160	Yes, the table shows that the Commission has supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U161	Supported, included...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U162	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U163	19. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Provision shall be made for arrangements for the organisation of the collection of signatures on the spot. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U164	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U165	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U166	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U167	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Commission proposal. Editative clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U168	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U169	22. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U170	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U171	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U172	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U173	24. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U174	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U175	25. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U176	Proposal No 25 is a proposal submitted by the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U177	I'm sorry. Yes, 25. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. In the title of Chapter III, the word ‘in person’ is deleted. Associated with electronic voting. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U178	Yeah. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U179	26. - Commission proposal. It shall specify the procedure for organising the taking of votes cast both in person and in the course of the previous vote. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U180	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U181	27. - Commission proposal. Working hours of the Chambers with other electoral laws. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U182	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U183	28. - a editorial specification drawn up by the Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U184	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U185	28. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U186	Proposal No 29
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U187	29. - Commission proposal. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U188	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U189	30. - Commission-led proposal. Editable. Refers to the voting procedure. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U190	Members support the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U191	31. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Prepared by the CEC in connection with the voting procedure. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U192	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U193	32. - Commission proposal. Editative clarification. It has also been prepared by the CEC. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U194	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U195	33. - Commission proposal. Editative clarification. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U196	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U197	34. - Commission proposal. Editative clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U198	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U199	35. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. That too is a editorial clarification. Supported and included 36. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U200	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U201	36. - Commission proposal. Rule 20 in its entirety shall be reworded, setting out the procedure for counting votes. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U202	Members support the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U203	37. - Commission proposal. The election panel shall provide for the confirmation of the results within three working days. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U204	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U205	38. - Commission proposal. Clarifying. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U206	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U207	39. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The procedure for entry into force of the Decision shall be laid down... in the case of a decision supported by a referendum, as well as the time limits for the announcement of new elections in the case of a referendum dismissed. The Commission supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U208	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U209	40. - a detailed proposal drawn up by the Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U210	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U211	41. - a drafting proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U212	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U213	42. - a drafting proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U214	Members support the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U215	43. - a Commission proposal supplementing the draft law with a new chapter on 'Votes in Envelopes of Registration' and setting out the relevant procedures. The Commission supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U216	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U217	And the last one, 44. - Commission proposal. Transitional provisions requiring the organisation and voting of referendums by electronic means... Not later than 1 January 2024... At the same time, providing for the possibility of holding referendums (footsteps) "in person" also before... At the moment, I would like to thank you. As you saw...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U218	So, a proposal from the committee responsible...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U219	In the Commission, this proposal is supported, yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U220	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U221	Yes, and here I would like to thank (as you have seen, very many editorial proposals) the representative of the Legal Bureau, Edvinas Danovskis, and the representatives of the CEC, for their involvement in the drafting of the law and in the drafting of these proposals. I call on my colleagues to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U222	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on local government referendums! Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third, final, reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U223	The deadline for submitting proposals is one month - 21 November this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U224	So, if there are no other proposals for a deadline, the deadline for the third, final reading of the draft law is 21 November this year. Thank you to the rapporteur. Agenda of the next meeting - Examination of draft decisions The draft decision “On the Parliament’s approval of the reallocation of the appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget 2021”” (No. 764/Lm13). Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U225	Thank you. Madam President, Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! The Law on Budget and Financial Management allows the Minister of Finance to re-allocate appropriations, but this is a re-allocation of appropriations where... not only the Minister of Finance has rights, but the Saeima should also support this re-allocation by a separate decision. This redistributive relates to raising the minimum rate of teachers to 830 euros and increasing the minimum rate of pre-school educators to 872 euros from 1 September 2021 onwards and the number of learners... With effect from 1 September 2021... the effects of changes. The budget and financial (tax) commission has examined and supported this appropriation. I just want to mention that the appropriation... This reallocation of appropriations will not affect the financial balance of the national consolidated budget. Request to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U226	Members have not applied for a debate on the draft decision. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the Parliament’s consent to reallocation of the appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget 2021”” (No. 764/Lm13)! Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. The draft decision “On the Parliament’s approval of the reallocation of the appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget 2021”” (No. 765 Lm13). Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U227	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, there is another reallocation of appropriations to be decided by the Saeima. It is about building a border. And it was also discussed by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. This reallocation was also supported by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. And this reallocation of appropriations will not affect the financial balance of the national consolidated budget. Supported by the Commission. Request to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U228	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the Parliament’s consent to reallocation of the appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget 2021”” (No. 765 Lm13)! Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Decision adopted. Agenda of the next sitting - processing of parliamentary requests Request from Members Viktors Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Edgars Tatars, Raimonds Bergmanis, Jānis Vacāns, Gundars Dauges, Janīna Jalinska, Jānis Dūklavs, Armands Krauzes, Māra Kučinskas to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On the Prime Minister’s duty to assume responsibility for the construction of the state border”. Member of the Commission of Petitions: Ivars Puga. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U229	Hello, colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! The Panel examined the request made by Members Viktors Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Edgars Tatars, Raimonds Bergmanis, Jānis Vacāns, Gundars Dauges, Janīna Jalinskas, Jānis Dūklavs, Armands Krauze, Māra Kučinskas to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On the duty of the Prime Minister to assume responsibility for the construction of the state border” (No. 73/P13). Thus, a repeated request for the construction of the fence was considered, as Members considered that border management issues were, however, dealt with in a slow and ineffective way. Go on. After hearing the replies and explanations of the Ministry of the Interior and the Minister himself, the members of the Commission decided to reject the request (two votes in favour, nine against and three abstentions).
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U230	Let us start a debate on the request. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U231	Colleagues! However, I would like to mention some things about this request. The main thing to understand is that this is a request from Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš... to take responsibility and take over this process in their own hands. There are, of course, several reasons for this. One of the reasons is the cost charge, which... Well, here is quite essential to the creation. Even before that, there were all kinds of irregularities and all kinds of suspicions of some kind of waste that... This, too, under the sign of the question - what has really happened there. In my opinion, such a real clarity has not yet arisen here; on the contrary, there is the impression that a particular company simply needs to be pushed aside. But I hope that's not what it looks like. In this request, the main theme is that Karina should still take responsibility, because if we follow the practice of more advanced democracies, then... Ministers shall not leave during their extraordinary circumstances. Minister... Not in some general emergency situation, but in his sector, he, in a particular minister, has declared the state of emergency, but the Minister still has permissions to go on vacation. How can it be?Oh, no, no, no, Colleagues, then there must be a great deal of confidence that everything is going on and that no misunderstanding will happen at that time. And even then it would be quite... It is wrong, to put it mildly, if the Minister were to leave at that time. There are countries where, after such a move, the Minister simply demisions himself. Latvia will probably not be the place where a minister would do so in such a situation, but... However, I would like to say one thing on this subject. If everything had been fine, perhaps no one would even notice the “saga” of their holiday. However, while the Minister was on vacation, we read in news that more than ten people fell away from this place of residence, which is in Latvia. Is that normal? It's not normal. As the Prime Minister's representative, the Parliamentary Secretary of the Prime Minister, Mrs Siliņa, has said, every minister has to appreciate... You can come back from vacation at any time. In this case, the fact that more than ten people leave the “Mucenieki” simply escape, and we do not know where they are, are they in Latvia or have left somewhere - that's nothing?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. If we look... with regard to the fence... No matter how much it costs... Some kind of purchases are closed... Anybody who won those purchases... We already talked here that the toy shop had won this purchase. Finally, as we already thought... and we also pointed out from the parliamentary tribunal that it would probably be smooth - to think that a toy shop would be able to deliver a fence on such amounts. And what happened? Of course, it appeared that this company is not able to supply the fence. What is the Minister doing? The Minister continues on leave - as if everything were in the best order. At a time when the sector is in an emergency situation. Is that normal? I think that is not normal. But I too... We invited you, we also made this request to the Minister and... more - the Prime Minister... with a call for responsibility, as it is still - by nature still! - it's talking about building that fence. They're on the ground... And thanks to the army for getting involved... have been laid down on the ground for a few kilometres of these wires, but - when will there be a real fence? When do we get there? So far there are only speeches, speeches, speeches, but we have not yet reached real action. In my opinion, the Minister should be worthy of his own work, and the Minister should think about his own attitude, about the attitude of the government, about the state as he goes... definitely already deserved, but now... on leave. This, in my opinion, was neither in line with the situation in the home affairs sector nor with the situation in which the country is now in general. And this issue of attitude is also reflected in the way in which society perceives every action of the government today. That is why I, my fellow Members, am calling for this request to reflect on the attitude of the people of the country. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U232	On behalf of the Commission, Mr Pugas, would you like to add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U233	No, not much. As I said, this request was rejected by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2304-U234	Please call me! We will vote for a Member Viktors Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Edgars Tatars, Raimonds Bergmanis, Jānis Vacāns, Gundars Dauges, Janīna Jalinskas, Jānis Dūklavs, Armands Krauze, Māra Kučinskas' request to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš "On the duty of the Prime Minister to assume responsibility for the construction of the state border"! Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! For - 21, for - 50, for - 1. The request is rejected. Dear Members and honourable Members, Consequently, we have reviewed the entire agenda of the remote extraordinary sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 21 October 2021. I would like to inform you of the Members' questions received. The first one is the question by Members Ivars Zariņa, Arthur Rubika, Edgars Kucina, Ivana Klementjeva and Jānis Tutina “On the Critical Situation of Latvian Medical Institutions during the Covid-19 pandemic and its Causes”, addressed to the Minister of Health of the Republic of Latvia. The question will be referred to the Minister for Health for a reply. Second. Members Ivars Zariņš, Arturs Rubiks, Edgars Kucins, Ivans Klementjevs and Jānis Tutins have submitted a question to the Minister of Health of the Republic of Latvia “On additional information regarding Covid–19 statistics”. This question will also be referred to the Minister for Health for a reply. And the third question is the question put by Members Jūlia Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Ramona Petraviča, Lubova Švekova and Māra Možvillo to the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavlut, on the statistics and resources that were allocated to the creation of Covid-19 beds. This question will also be referred to the Minister for Health for a reply. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that soon, five minutes after this sitting is closed, the Saeima Bureau will meet to hold a meeting to convene the second remote sitting of the Saeima on 21 October this year, i.e. today. You will also be informed of the time when the sitting is convened by means of a text message... on your phones. Please be careful and follow the information received. Only the registration of Members. It's been a success. So I closed the remote emergency sitting on 21 October. To meet after the second remote meeting on 21 October. Thank you.
