ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U1	Honourable Members! We will begin to review the agenda for the second remote emergency session of the Saeima on 16 December this year. On the agenda: reports by the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 Disease Management Law” submitted by Member Valaiņa, Planta, Jalinska, Tatars and Krauzze (No. 1264/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the Commission responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U2	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, When examining the draft state budget for 2022, the Saeima Group of the Greens/Farmers Union submitted a proposal to establish co-financing for the payment of 50 per cent of the guaranteed minimum income benefit and housing benefit to municipalities. Unfortunately, this proposal did not receive the support of the majority of the Saeima and the solution to the problem has not yet been found. If we look at what was said in the public space of the Minister for Welfare and also at what was said in the public space of the State Secretary of the Ministry for Welfare, they clearly support the payment of such a benefit and the provision of such assistance to local authorities. A week ago we submitted a draft law with 30 per cent co-payment, but when the Minister for Welfare in the public space says that they are ready to pay 50 per cent to municipalities to cover this co-financing, we prepared and submitted such a draft law and we also invite you, colleagues, to vote in favour of the transfer of this draft law to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission so that the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission can now work to identify all the necessary amounts of money... necessary for the final adoption of this draft law. If the Minister and the Supreme Ministry's leadership state that this is a matter for local authorities from 2022... will be supported and he is “for” it... then it is already 16 December. We, fellow Members, no longer have very many sittings left where we could look at this issue and achieve this support. Very many municipalities are waiting for this solution. A situation has arisen when we see – the initial forecast data showed that social assistance will increase costs in municipalities from 15 to 60 percent. Now, after the increase in gas, electricity and other costs, we see that this figure will certainly be 60 percent and more... which municipalities will have to help. We have had quite a major change in social assistance issues, on which the Social and Labour Commission has already spoken in September, October. Members are in the course of this problem, but unfortunately nothing more is happening in the Saeima about speaking, and the decisions that are needed to tackle this problem are not taken. The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs considered that this issue will be discussed in November, November has passed, December will be over immediately, January 1 is approaching, bills are coming to the public... population groups and... very big groups still... At the moment, there is a very tense situation in municipalities, where very many people regrettably have to refuse this allowance, which should be granted. The total number of people entitled to the allowance has increased from 26 thousand to 40 thousand, plus there is still a whole range of people who no longer qualify for these benefits for various reasons, where municipalities also need to look for another solution to provide these people who are objectively in need of assistance. The country at this point, I thought... It is difficult for me to understand what is happening at the moment about the stock of the re-growth of the population, but definitely it is not in the interests of the population – to tell that this housing support from the state will be provided in 2023, wait another year. The bills are today! Colleagues, you understand – it doesn't sound logical. The Minister talks about this in all formats – that from 1 January 2022 it must be. I, my fellow Members, call on this matter to be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, to start looking at this issue in the Saeima and putting the greatest pressure on the Ministry of Finance, which obviously does not want such a solution. I do not know why Mr Reira does not like this, why he has not noticed the situation that is currently taking place in municipalities. The local authorities have also indicated this to him. In my opinion, this issue must be taken over by the Saeima and resolved by the Saeima, putting maximum pressure on the Ministry of Finance, so that it finally disappears from the agenda, so that the municipalities can also work calmly and give this support to the citizens in a much more free manner. I call for support for this draft law to be passed on to the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U3	“Pret” has applied to speak to Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U4	Dear colleagues! I am already accustomed that Mr Valaiņš is one of the largest advocates of the new conservative various initiatives. Thank him for that. With regard to this co-financing of housing benefits, I understand that decisions in government (I am, of course, only a member of the Saeima)... Government decisions may already be in place next week. There is a conceptual agreement. And it is this issue that the Ministry of Finance has not objected to and sees it as a very good solution. Therefore, at least from my point of view, as far as I have been in contact, it must be said that no party objects or is going to block this initiative promoted by the Ministry of Welfare. It is clear that perhaps some legislation would still need to be amended, but first of all, I would like to understand whether it really is. With regard to this draft law, I must remind you that issues affecting the energy crisis... It's pure... legally perceptible, but it is a separate crisis... from the Covid crisis, and this draft law is about the covids, not about the consequences of some kind of energy. Accordingly, such a wedding could be formed here. I call for the energy crisis not to be directly linked to the Covid crisis, which is a single major and rather significant event that is currently taking place. So, of course, this one is not to be supported, but, of course, thank you for your great support, both in the course of the budget review... in general, such moral support for the opposition... young Conservatives. We appreciate this and hope that when the Saeima will have certain draft laws from the government... We hope that everyone will come to the sittings, that there will be a quorum in all sittings and that we will be able to act quickly in this process of overcoming the energy crisis. Thank you, Mr. Valains. Thank you to the whole opposition, which actively supports us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U5	I understand that thanks have been said. Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 law on the control of the spread of infection” (No. 1264/Lp13) transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! On - 31, against - 47, refraining from - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection” presented by Member Šteina, Pūce, Dzintara, Jušas and Latkovska (No. ) (a.k.a. ‘ For” applied to speak Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U6	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Sitting viewers and listeners! We have prepared and submitted a draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 Law on the Proliferation of Infectious Diseases”, supplementing it with a norm that the person is also obliged to present an identity document: driver’s licence, student’s certificate, student’s certificate, pensioner’s certificate or service pension recipient’s certificate. The proposal extends the range of documents that could identify the holder of an interoperable certificate and prevent conflict situations in the process of verification of an interoperable certificate. The public has also been called upon to decide on appropriate amendments to the legislation, by providing that other documents may also be used to identify the holder of an interoperable certificate. Request to hand over this draft law to the commission and support it in the Saeima as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U7	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” presented by Member Petravičas, Krapāne, Možville, Nemiro and Gobzem (No. 1267/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission with responsibility for the Commission. ‘ Ramona Petraviča, a Member, has applied to speak about’.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U8	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Today the draft law "Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act", which aims to reduce value added tax on gas and electricity, has already been rejected twice. Once again and again, until the coalition hears that electricity prices have risen by 100 percent. As electricity prices rise, the costs of heating also rise, so you can see it when you look at your utility bills. With electricity prices, food and services prices are also rising rapidly, because in order to eat bread electricity is needed to process milk and deliver it to the store, electricity and fuel is needed, which is also a significant price. Entrepreneurs cannot continue to be charitable for a long time, so prices are rising. How, though, can people cope with the rapidly increasing costs? Other countries have long since taken a decision to reduce value added tax on electricity. But what is our government waiting for? 62000 people remained unemployed and incomed yesterday. What do they do? Do you load the coffers and go on your way? How to pay bills to low-wage earners and seniors? It is truly surprising that today the National Union called for the rejection of the reduction in value added tax on electricity, because there are all kinds of instruments available. This is the support - the EUR 10 for the poor - and it is more than an increase in bills. It should be noted here that poor people receive housing benefits, but what to do for those who have some euro (Sound break.) ... than to obtain the status of a poor person. The aid is for seniors. What kind of support? Is it meant for those 20 euros, that vaccination allowance? Has this vaccination allowance now become an electricity benefit? Then it happens that unvaccinated seniors are not human. They don't get any electricity prices? What support do they receive? Please support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U9	Thank you. ‘ Against’ applied to speak Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U10	Dear colleagues! I have a déjà vu, because I thought I was... We have already spoken to similar draft laws at our first meeting today, or not. And the Ministry of Economics... I'm just like that, well... Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, I think quite well explained what the executive is doing, and we Members have to take this into account - what the executive... come and tell us about these issues. My humble thoughts as an economist are that... So I do not understand why the renewable resources of Latvia - of local origin - are being sorted and discriminated against; why, for example, pellets are not offered a reduction in VAT, which currently, of course, has a reduced rate of 12 per cent in theory; why is this gas of Russian origin, although it is well known, for example, that companies deduct all their VAT in advance and actually do not have any benefit from VAT for businesses. No matter how much I sometimes like the position of the Ministry of Finance and the Minister, he is right in that respect. It's my opinion, the view from the edge. As regards housing benefits, of course, we need to look at what executive power will bring us the offer that will be communicated and that will finally be accepted by the government, but it is also intended to build the so-called income ratios in order to extend the range of households that are eligible for these housing benefits. Accordingly, the State would also participate in some kind of co-financing for municipalities, support for municipalities to be better able to provide their social function, which is the core function that municipalities should play in general. But in this case... This bill, apologies, where the chips, granules, wood, have been ignored... I must remind you, in this way, that in the regions, perhaps more wood is used. Perhaps Riga's gentlemen don't use wood anymore, but in the countryside they still use it. Why this sort of sorting and discrimination is inconceivable. This draft law must therefore be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U11	Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax (No. 1267/Lp13) transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 33, against - 49, abstaining. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. Please enable the procedure section. Name of the Member Ivars Zarins report on the motives for voting. Mr. Zarins, you have to register. Please give the floor to Member Ivars Zarins on the motives for voting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U12	Good afternoon, everybody! As has become known from the media and as can be seen from the votes in the Saeima, the government coalition is not in favour of a reduction in VAT on electricity and gas, arguing that it would be a better solution - by lowering the 'Distributive Network' tariff. Even a 50 percent reduction is called for. However, there is good reason to fear that they would not be the current empty promises of this power, since at the meeting of the Board of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission on 14 December this year (i.e. very recently), the Chairman of the Board of the Distribution Network expressed his misunderstanding and surprise at such a possible decision by the Government, stating that the company is not ready and does not have the opportunity to make such a significant tariff reduction without State aid. In this respect, important questions remain unanswered, without which such a decision is not possible: how much cost reduction is expected to be achieved by a reduction in the ‘distribution network’ tariff; how much and how much is expected to reduce this ‘distribution network’ tariff; whether there are any estimates of the operational and system safety risks that such a reduction in the ‘distribution network’ tariff may cause for the distribution system and its users. Revenue from emission allowance trading is offered as a source of financing for the reduction of the ‘Distributive Network’ tariff. The questions are well-founded here: who was to use these quotas before they were considered to use this objective of a reduction in the ‘Distributive Network’ tariff mentioned above? How much revenue was expected to be generated from their sale, and under what regulatory framework would these revenues be used for what measures? If these are measures that are irrelevant and can now not be implemented, why could the revenue from these quotas not be passed on to the promised increase in medical wages? That didn't have the money. In particular, the following case is confusing: the reduction in the tariff costs of the “Salais tīkls” network for Latvian entrepreneurs through state resources is in line with the characteristics of State aid. State aid not coordinated with the European Commission is not permitted in the European Union. This aspect is being concealed at all and it is not assessed whether or not the power is simply not aware of it, because nowhere is explained, whether and how this support is intended to be aligned with the European Commission and when such coordination can be obtained from the European Commission. The winter may already be over. There is good reason to fear that this promised reduction in the distribution tariff can come in the same way as it does almost everything that this power does. I therefore consider it necessary to support this proposal to reduce VAT already now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U13	Thank you, colleagues, we have heard a report on the motives for voting. Mr Zarins, however, I would like to point out to you that the report on the motives for voting is to be read in the way it is presented, without any further interpretation. Let's keep going. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” submitted by Member Tatar, Valaiņa, Augulis, Jalinska and Dūklavs (No. 1268/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis... So Mr. Valaiņš will obviously not talk. ‘ The Members will not speak against... He'll talk, though. Colleagues! You, to say that, figure out, or you will speak or not. Mr. Valaiņš, then finally, you'll talk about it or not, you'll think again?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U14	No, no, colleagues, I...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U15	Name of Member Viktoras Valainis “for”.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U16	Thank you. I wanted to give Mr Feldman a preference in this regard. But about this particular offer... what we offer. This is an issue that Mr Feldman spoke about earlier: on discrimination, on regions and on people who are still burning wood. Here are both about chips, and about sawdust, wood residues, pagan, branch, jaw bundles... Different types of wood, and here we also offer to reduce the rate by five percent. To understand a little bit of this context. The fact that we put forward these proposals... Yes, we are also following with us and we are hearing at the moment very many different solutions in public space on how to reduce electricity prices, how to reduce heat costs, but one is what the government is talking about, the other is what we see in the letters from the citizens we see and hear when we meet the citizens we see in their bills. And in their bills, none of what the government is telling us about is unfortunately reflected. The bill continues to rise. There are very large groups of people who are not affected by these bills. And winter is already running, winter is running in full swing, people's bills are already coming, the cost of life is increasing, and it becomes more difficult to pay... and at the end of the day, the government promises that there will be any new solutions; decisions will be made. It's all gonna be all right. Mr Zarins, who mentioned a moment ago that there are still various challenges with the harmonisation of the European Commission, must join in. What you're talking about doesn't necessarily mean that people really have to lose their bills. I am not even talking here about a reduction, I am talking here about quite simply not increasing costs, so that at least remains what it is. We see that our neighbouring countries are dealing with these issues much more successfully, including a number of examples of where tax solutions are used. We, the Union of Greens/Farmers, will also come up with solutions not only of this kind, but also other solutions on which we have already asked Members questions, where, too,... I think that in Latvia too, it is necessary to start thinking about other, much more aggressive, solutions to overcome the energy crisis. The fact that we are tabling amendments to tax changes, including the addition of wood... Seeing that the purchase of wood also becomes more difficult for people... Prices are rising in all areas, well, we also need to provide tax support, because the solutions proposed by the government only achieve their objectives in part and, in many cases, help more those groups of the population who do not need it so much, who have other support instruments to overcome the Covid-19. Large companies with a completely different type of aid instrument approach... and they may need to work differently. For this reason, government solutions may result in a large part of the population receiving this support, a group of entrepreneurs who may not need this support at all. We need to work more purposefully. We need to work more carefully. At present, all tax reduction instruments are, in our view, sufficiently effective and must be used at this point in time. They were talked about not only by the opposition, but also by the Minister of Economics - until he came to the coalition council. Then on the coalition board, various variations began... and comes out with support instruments that we believe will not work to the end. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call on you to join my submission and that of my fellow Members... at least at this point also begin to talk about tax reductions and reduce taxes on firewood in 2022 and... this type of heating. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U17	Thank you. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax (No. 1268/Lp13) transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! On - 36, against - 48, refraining from - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. Next - referral of draft laws to commissions and first reading. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Saeima Election Law” submitted by the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission and we begin to examine it at first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U18	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The parliamentary elections are coming, and the Legal Bureau has pointed out to us the problem of the next parliamentary elections. So Varakļānu novads, which after administrative reform and subsequent judgement of the Constitutional Court was preserved for some time as a separate municipality... and we also laid down in the Law on Administrative Territories and settlements... We extended this transitional period to Varakļāni Municipality until we decide where Varakļāni District to belong to Vidzeme or Latgale. In the Commission, the Central Electoral Commission indicated that this problem cannot remain so, Varakļāns have to join a district... Saeima in the context of elections. After long discussions in the committee itself and the working group of the committee set up afterwards, in which the Ministry of Justice, the Central Electoral Commission, the Legal Bureau, agreed unanimously that we should go to Varakļānu region to continue... residents of the Saeima vote as they have done for almost 30 years, and this order is preserved until the Saeima takes a decision on the distant fate of Varakļāni district. After we looked at the Commission, the Ministry of Justice had changed its opinion by referring to the Law on the Historical Lands of Latvia... where a debate took place between the rapporteur responsible for the draft law “Latvian Historical Lands Law” on the side of the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission and the representative of the Ministry of Justice... where, following long discussions, the Commission decided to maintain the proposal drawn up by the working group, which was also supported by the Legal Bureau, the Central Electoral Commission, and to support this draft law at first reading, to move it forward as a matter of urgency to the Saeima for consideration, while maintaining the order in which it has been so far, without changing anything until the Saeima takes a final decision on the future fate of the Varakļāni district in the context of administrative territorial reform. Ladies and gentlemen, I call for support for the urgency of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U19	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Saeima Election Law” as urgent! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U20	Colleagues, I call for support for this at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U21	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Long Schuplinsk.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U22	Hello! Lobby dyna! Oh, my God! In fact, only two accents. Mr. Valaiņš has already started talking about the first. Thus, of course, there is an absolute link between the Saeima Election Law and the recently viewed Administrative Territory and settlement laws. I will repeat only what I said at the same time: as at that time, the amendments to the law are not considered in substance. I will try to justify why this has happened. While looking at the current annotation and the proposed amendment of the draft law, in principle works in the Saeima's usual, I would say that the inability to solve the substance of the already stereotyped law. The argument says that this amendment is necessary in order to organise 14. Elections of the Saeima, if necessary, also extraordinary elections of the Saeima, while the amendment of the law in principle does not refer to this term, but only, to be said, the characteristic criterion - as long as Varakļāni region exists. How can this amendment to the law be interpreted? Just as it has happened with the instruction given in the Constitutional Court about the absence of development centres in a number of cases, I must say, the municipality. And what happened? We have previously voted that in principle both Rezekne, Ventspils, Jelgava and other regions... is not addressed in the aspect as established by the Constitutional Court until 2029. This means that such an amendment does not entail that it will be implemented in the near future, i.e. there is no time restriction. And the second accent. Indeed, along with the adoption of the law on the historical states of Latvia, it is also written there, and it must be said, that any matter relating to administration and this electoral procedure is respected in relation to the territory of the historical countries. There I can only confirm this debate, I must say, compliance with the law adopted in connection with the fact that Varaklani is a historic land belonging to... has been included in the territory of Latgale. That's why, even at the time this amendment to the law was made... time is needed to clarify that the amendment in question concerns a very limited period of time, but it does not provide for the current deferral phase or another one, to be said, an extension, as often happens with a number of amendments to the law considered by the Saeima. Thank you. I therefore also believe that it is necessary to set a time limit for the proposals for the second reading of this amendment to the specific law... on the examination by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U23	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U24	President of the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, I can say about the debate that has just been held: yes, in the original version there was a fixed-term offer, but at the initiative of the Ministry of Justice it was changed... without that, because by setting a deadline, we can come to a situation where the next Saeima, which will be the final adopter of this decision... We cannot predict whether they will or will not take this decision, and following a proposal from the Ministry of Justice and consultation with the Legal Office, this issue has been analysed and such a editorial solution has been adopted that meets and removes obstacles so that we do not have to return and change this regulation again after a while. This regulation will expire at a time when the administrative territorial reform will be implemented to the end when the fate of the Varaklanes will be resolved. Therefore, such a regulation of time limits is also necessary. I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U25	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on the First Reading of the Saeima Election Law! Please, let's vote! No, 73, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U26	Colleagues, at first we were in the commission... We would like to call on the Saeima to be adopted immediately at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U27	Please enable the procedure section. Are Members opposed to the final reading of the draft law without re-examination by the committee responsible? Members Budrik and Šuplinska object. Therefore, please set a time limit for proposals and a time limit for consideration at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U28	Yeah, that's what we've anticipated. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - five days, the second reading - 20 January.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U29	So five days - by 21 December this year. So the deadline for the proposals is 21 December this year. And consideration of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U30	20 January
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U31	Consideration at the Saeima sitting - this year's... 20 January 20, right? 20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Yeah, thank you, that's 20 January. Thank you. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Administration of Housing Houses” submitted by the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Let us start with this at first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Uldis Budriķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U32	Good afternoon, very dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, On 1 January amendments to the Law “On the Time and Procedure of Entry into Force of the Renewed Civil Law of the Republic of Latvia, the Rights of Heritage and the Rights of Cases” shall come into force. This is the so-called forced lease reform. This Law provides for the replacement of lease regulations in cases of shared property by legal land use rights for a fee. The Commission of State Administration and Local Government shall direct the examination at the Saeima at first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Administration of Housing Houses”, as well as in the common package of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Property of the Apartment”. Then the draft law is... It is this draft law that is the ‘Amendments to the law on the administration of residential houses’. The amendments are necessary in order to avoid the existence of conflicting legal provisions in related laws, including the law on the roof due to the entry into force of forced lease reform. The amendments provide for the establishment of mandatory management activity, i.e. to ensure the maintenance of land parcels according to the requirements of regulatory enactments, where the residential house is located on land belonging to another person, as well as to determine the competence of the manager of the activities related to the collection of legal fees. Taking into account that the second draft law “Amendments to the Housing Property Law” has a term (and this term is already immediately) and the roof law takes effect on 1 January, the Commission invites to recognise this draft law as urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U33	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Administration of Housing Houses” as urgent! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U34	The Commission calls for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U35	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Administration of Housing Houses”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U36	Taking into account that this is a draft law drafted by the commission, agreed with both the Ministry of the responsible industry and the social partners of the Ministry of Justice, as well as the versions were developed by the working group in close cooperation with the Legal Bureau, the commission was asked to support and review the draft law at second reading without re-examination by the responsible committee. So, if there is no objection from colleagues, on behalf of the Commission, I call for support to be given to the draft law at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U37	Please see the procedure section. Are Members opposed to the second reading of the draft law without re-examination by the committee responsible? Members have not applied. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Administration of Housing” in the second, final, reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. The Presidium of Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Apartment Property” submitted by the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Let us start with this at first reading. Member Uldis Budrikis on behalf of the commission responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U38	Thank you, colleagues, for supporting the first draft law. This draft law, as I mentioned, is related to the property law of the Apartment. The amendments also provide for alignment of terminology with the main draft reform law, as well as provision, in certain cases, for a legal fee for the first quarter of the following year to be paid by 31 March of the following year, if no other agreement has been reached, establishing, in substance, a transitional period. In view of these deadlines, the Commission also asked for this draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U39	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Housing Property Law” as urgent! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U40	(Sound rupture) ... support at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U41	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Housing Property Law” at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U42	This draft law was also developed in close cooperation with the Legal Bureau and the responsible ministries. The Commission was supported to examine the draft law at second reading without re-examination by the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U43	Please see the procedure section. Are Members opposed to the second reading of the draft law without re-examination by the committee responsible? Members have not applied. There is no objection. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Housing Property Law” in the second, final, reading! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - consideration of draft decisions. The draft decision on the re-allocation of appropriations established by the Saeima on the consent of the Saeima to the Law on the State Budget 2021. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U44	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima and honourable colleagues! The budget and financial (tax) commission examined and supported the draft decision on the Parliament’s approval of the reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law on the State Budget 2021. The draft decision provides for the reallocation of financial resources from the Saeima budget programme 01.00 “Ensure of the Saeima” to the budget sub-programmes of the Ministry of Health in the total amount of EUR 2 350 000. The funding is redistributed to the following budget sub-programmes of the Ministry of Health: budget sub-programme 33.04.00 „Centreized acquisition of medicines and materials” – EUR 1 042 869, providing for the purchase of vaccines in 2021 against human papilloma virus infection and pertussis, and budget sub-programme 33.18.00 „Prosecution of planned hospital health care services” – EUR 1 307 131 for public limited liability “Child Clinical University Hospital” for the introduction of new technologies and equipment. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has supported the reallocation of financial resources, and on behalf of the Commission I call on you to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U45	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the Parliament’s consent to the reallocation of the appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget 2021””! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On Parliamentary Investigation Commission of the Saeima to investigate the wrong actions of the Latvian government in the Covid-19 pandemic management process, as well as to name the names of political officials who have irreversibly negative consequences for Latvia’s extension of duration”. On behalf of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry, Member Rihards Kozlovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U46	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, At its meeting on 16 December this year, the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry, taking into account the fact that the Commission has obtained a large amount of information and recently concluded an inquiry into the persons to be invited by the Commission, and the fact that the Commission is currently holding an active debate on the content of the final report, as well as in order to enable Members to submit their conclusions in writing, the proposals may also have to be drawn up on a separate basis, agreed that the Commission should be extended. And also in view of the fact that the Saeima will have a break from 23 December to 6 January of the following year, the members of the Commission decided unanimously to request the Saeima to extend the term of office of the Board until 28 January 2022. On behalf of the Commission, I ask the Saeima to support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U47	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U48	Good afternoon, everyone! I would also call for support for the duration of this committee. At least to enable the Commission to receive and answer my questions. As you know, colleagues, I started to investigate the suspicious power deals that took place before this committee, both in relation to the purchase of vaccines, where, I understand, the General Prosecutor's Office has initiated its investigation, and in relation to other episodes, particularly one of the most striking episodes related to the so-called TITLED-respirators of SIA, where almost one million were delivered from the advertising agency at very high prices - higher than those offered by others - as it turned out to be appropriate later. The fact that this is a suspicious transaction was already known to have been pointed out by several features from the beginning: both what these documents were and - how this procurement scheme took place. And later on, when it turned out that there was a real concern that these documents were counterfeit, inadequate, that the acceptance of the goods had taken place by circumventing the regulatory procedure and that it was not clear at all who was responsible... and still has not been clearly known. As it turned out later, these respirators were really useless. Subsequently, the information showed that there were other, more reliable, suppliers with more favourable conditions, and it was reasonable to ask why this supplier had to buy from a supplier that did not have any business at all. Why would it be necessary to buy so many respiratory equipment if after six months almost half of the respiratory equipment was still unused? This whole series of questions... Looking at the requests, it was said that the response will be given to the Commission of Inquiry, that it will be done by the Commission of Inquiry and, Mr Kozlovsky, you who participated in the Commission of Petitions... take part in and chair this commission of inquiry. A long time has passed: I have been addressing these specific questions for some time back to you, and I would like to receive answers to them. Very specific questions. If you give answers to these questions or do not be afraid to ask those responsible questions (I am not afraid to call it 'afex procurement'), then we will find out the real circumstances of the case - what has really happened, what interests this strange procurement has achieved for what purpose... as well as very specific things that have been asked on these issues, on which I look forward to your further action. This is about cash flows for this transaction, because these cash flows could show who actually stood behind this transaction and how it was done in the interests of it. That is, if you, using your rights, turn to the Financial Intelligence Service and ask simple questions such as finding out cash flows... How, then, could this transaction be financed by this organization, this businessman, who had all the previous business experience, taken together, would not match this single transaction at all? Because the volume of the transaction was disproportionately large for this businessman. Then we will find out further why these officials, who, when they found that the respiratory devices were not being delivered, did not take advantage of the option provided for in the Treaty to deal with the trader, but, on the contrary, applied very delicate, very friendly conditions to him, namely that they did not resort to any sanctions, but - you should imagine now! - offered, agreed to exchange these invalid respirators against useful respirators at the price at the moment of purchase. It was abnormally high! Go on. Despite the fact that there were real losses to the State due to such conduct, the officials in charge did not do anything, they were waiting for the company to pay the profits generated in the transaction into dividends so that the money would no longer be there. Well, here, and it would be very simple to make sure that this has not really been a climate, ask our Financial Intelligence Service and their partners to find out these cash flows... Where is the money then gone. I think we could get very interesting facts about it. In any case, make sure that this transaction was or did not really take place in the interest of the State and in the public interest. Mr Kozlovsky, this is your duty as chairman of the Commission, and I will ask you to do so. I call on everyone to follow - it will be clear or not clarified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U49	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U50	President-in-Office of the Council. Colleagues! I will also call for support for this draft decision. And also to Mr. Zarins... I have also received his application and I would like to say that it is only a very, very small part of the work that we are doing there, and this issue is not really the same most important thing, but it takes a very small part of the total amount that will be contained in this Commission report or at least in my individual thoughts if we get there. I think the extension... I did not, at least personally, need such an extension, and the fact that we are now forced to do so is the purest issue of work organisation, and that is exactly from the Commission's management, I think that the properly organised work plan, in what way we are going to it, but also within the prescribed time limit, would have come to something. At least for us in the political group, the final conclusions of this committee have already been formulated. At a time when we went to these final conclusions, several more things have been discovered and, in my view, not only the preparation of the final work takes more time. It is also necessary to invite the officials to the Commission's meeting, because now, with all the protocols that the official has said and putting together this whole set of conclusions, we see clearly that the Prime Minister comes in direct contradiction with what the Minister for Health of his government has said, both the present and the former. In such a case, I think the Commission should call both at the same time and be clear in some way. At the same time, we see - where we have also addressed Members' questions - the work of the government today, consciously - I stress! - knowingly, in my opinion, by destroying audio recordings so that they do not go to the public on how decisions are made... Colleagues! In our commissions, even the audio records of the working group are standing (and no one plans to destroy them), no matter what time you need to see. In the government today, audio recordings on the Covid-19 crisis management issues - the issue that has been taken up at decisive times - are being destroyed. They just disappear. Well, in my opinion, something is not clean here, but the issues that have come to light in recent days also require further analysis. In general, I think that the Commission must not only work very actively on this final report, but it will also have to invite people in addition, yet to question them, so that we understand, and in some way we can come to the same truth. I would not want us to be forced to write in the final report: “Vyņķele said that the Prime Minister was not interested. The Prime Minister says that he and all four have been inside all processes and have done everything.” Which of these two politicians is a former or an existing... Which one of them lies? One certainly lies. Therefore, in my view, it is necessary to invite them all together so that they can manage, who is right, so that we can make the final report as objective as possible. So, colleagues, I call for a careful planning of time and for Members - not only coalitions but also opposition Members - to send out these conclusions in good time so that we can prepare ourselves, because, as I mentioned in the Commission, we are not only representing ourselves here, we represent our political groups in this Commission. In the political groups, we discussed these issues, so that the opinion of the political groups would also be expressed. I call for this extension. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U51	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U52	On behalf of the Commission, I will have nothing to add. On behalf of the Commission, the arguments have already been put forward, so that I ask the Saeima to support this draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U53	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Parliamentary Investigation Commission of the Saeima to investigate the wrong actions of the Latvian government in the process of coping with the Covid–19 pandemic, as well as name the names of those political officials who have irreversibly negative consequences for Latvia’s extension of duration”! Please, let's vote! No, 82, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking for a 30-minute break. Obviously, the commission is planning work and asking for a break. Please see the procedure section. Members have not applied to speak about or against. Please call me! Let's vote for a break, 30 minutes! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the decision has been made. Interruption, 30 minutes. Dear colleagues, So let's keep working at 3:05 a.m. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. Interruption until 3:05 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U54	Dear colleagues, Let's keep working after the break. We shall continue to work on the agenda for the second remote emergency session on 16 December this year. On the agenda - examination of the notification. ‘ About Information provided by the State Police about 13. Administrative detention of Alda Gobzem, Member of the Saeima.’ On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications - Member Normunds Gunna.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U55	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application, I am authorised to present a statement “On Information provided by the State Police about 13. Administrative detention of Alda Gobzem, Member of the Saeima.’ On 7 December this year, the Saeima received an application from the State Police prepared on the basis of Article 29 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia. The application of the national police described 13. Conditions of administrative detention of the Saeima Member Alda Gobzem on 6 December this year. On behalf of the Saeima Bureau, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications at the meeting of 15 December this year examined the application of the State Police in relation to 13. The administrative detention of the Saeima Member Alda Gobzem. The Commission heard the Chief of State Police Armand Ruck, the sworn lawyer Edgars Pasta, as well as the Legal Bureau. After 13. At the request of the Saeima Member Alda Gobzems, the advocate Jānis Dzanuškans expressed his opinion at the meeting of the committee. Upon hearing the invited persons and examining the said document, the Commission shall provide the Saeima with such information on 13. The administrative detention of the Saeima Member Alda Gobzem. On 6 December 2021, in response to the information received, that in Tukums, in the area of the service station ‘Neste’, a non-fuelled passenger bus stopped at the service pump and did not leave the service station, thus hindering the operation of the service station, the officials of the Tukums district administration of the State Police Zemgale Region arrived at the site of the event and found that an event organised by Alda Gobzema in the territory of the service station was taking place in the form of an address by the voters. There were about 40 people on the site who supported Alda Gobzem's event, dissipating slogans and addressing Aldi Gobzem. Since Aldis Gobzems could not present a written authorisation of the owner of the service station to organise the event, according to Section 9(3) of the Law “On Meetings, Processions and Pickets”, he did not submit an application to Tukums Municipality for the events and repeatedly did not submit orders from the State Police regarding the termination of the measure, the State Police Officer, Aldim Gobzems, announced that he had been administratively detained and had to go to the service vehicle. Aldis Gobzems also ignored this legitimate request of the State Police, after which he was repeatedly told that the State Police officers would be forced to use physical force against him. Since Aldis Gobzems continued to ignore the legitimate demands of the State Police, a physical means was used against Aldis Gobzems - grabbing his hands to spend the person in the service vehicle. At the service vehicle Aldis Gobzems resisted boarding in the service vehicle, trying to get out of the grip. In order to ensure the safety of others, it was decided to use a special product called handcuffs, which was applied to Aldim Gobzem. After the imposition of handcuffs, the person was placed in the special temporary detention compartment of the service vehicle and delivered to the Tukums administration of the State Police Police for further procedural activities. After completion of the procedural activities at 13.21 Aldis Gobzems was released and abandoned the Tukums district of Zemgale Region Administration of the State Police. On the same day, the State Police found that Aldis Gobzems invites to gather for the event residents of Ventspils City. Information was received from Ventspils City Municipality that this measure was not harmonised. Instead of the event, Aldis Gobzems did not submit to the legitimate request of the State Police staff to stop the management of the unauthorised event and call of the population to an illegal, epidemiologically insecure gathering. Aldis Gobzems was warned that if he did not obey, he would be detained and, if necessary, physical force and special means would be used. Aldis Gobzems did not respond to multiple calls, but, on the contrary, he called on the people who came to it not to submit to it, with uncensored words threatening the police staff of the State, so that to stop the event and activities of Alda Gobzems, a decision was made to detain Aldi Gobzem. During the arrest Aldis Gobzems called on the surrounding persons to prevent it and to interfere with activities of the State Police staff. People around by using physical force did not allow State police officers to take Aldi Gobzema away from the scene, place in a service car and service cars to move. The surrounding persons actually held, grain State Police officers, ripped behind uniforms, made targeted hits. Physical force was used to move Aldi Gobzema to the service car in order to ensure the performance of the tasks and to protect the health and life of the state police officers. Aldis Gobzems was detained in connection with the administrative violation and continued around 16:50 in accordance with Article 71 of the Law on Administrative Liability and was delivered to the State Police Police in Kurzeme Region Authority Ventspils district for further procedural activities. After completion of the procedural activities at 20:45 Aldis Gobzems was released and abandoned Ventspils district of the State Police Kurzeme Region Authority. Later on the same day State Police and Liepaja City Municipal Police officers went to Rose Square in Liepaja based on Alda Gobzem's call for people to gather there. About 2 p.m., some 200 people had already gathered in the Rose Square. Soon after 2 p.m. Aldis Gobzems arrived in Liepaja. He moved along the streets of the city and entered the hotel “Liva” to book the room. State police officers and Liepaja City Municipality police officers blocked the entrance to the hotel so that public order and accommodation at the hotel was not disturbed, because the supporters of Alda Gobzems tried to break through the police chain and get into the hotel. After some time Aldis Gobzems came out of the hotel and invited all his supporters to follow him on a walk along the streets of the city, during which he watched how bad a government was that oppresses the people and deprives the people of their freedom, and during the walk indicated that he was not forbidden to walk around the city. Since no move or meeting or picket was announced in the Municipality of Liepaja on 6 December 2021, his call was treated as an offence and the State Police Officer went to Alda Gobzem and asked him to stop illegal activities. Alda Gobzem's actions were provocative, and he did not intend to stop his illegal activities, as in the previous stops of the protest of this day. Given that Aldis Gobzems did not comply with the legitimate demands of police officers to stop an illegal meeting or a move, it was decided to suspend him administratively in order to prevent the continuation of illegal activities. During the arrest, Aldis Gobzem resisted and opposed, as well as his supporters against police officers and initiated a physical resistance. Despite the resistance of the population, at 23.36 Aldis Gobzems was delivered to the vehicle of the State Police Service and placed in a special temporary detention compartment. Further Aldis Gobzems was delivered to the State Police Regional Administration of Kurzeme, where procedural actions were carried out with the detained for the administrative violations committed by him - for organising an unauthorized meeting and march in the city of Liepaja, for violating the limits of assembly and for disobeying the legitimate demands of police officers to stop the violation. Colonelsten 00.55 Aldis Gobzems was released and left Liepaja district of the State Police Kurzeme Region Authority. In general, the State Police found several violations in Alda Gobzema's activities in accordance with Article 25 of the Law on Meetings, Processions and Pickets, as well as Articles 4 and 11 of the Administrative Penalty Law on Violations in the Field of Administration, Public Order and Use of the State Language. According to the State Police, Aldis Gobzems has taken targeted actions to bring people together, thus creating increased epidemiological security risks, in violation of the Cabinet of Ministers Order of 9 October 2021. 720 “Advertising the Emergency” requirements. The state police found that the Member, at the request of the police officers, strongly ignored the legitimate demands of the police, as well as repeatedly uncensored. Taking into account that the violation of the law of Alda Gobzem was recorded at the time when it was committed, then on the basis of Article 29 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia a procedural measure - administrative detention - was adopted against him three times in accordance with Section 71(1) and (5) of the Law on Administrative Liability. The decision on the administrative detention was taken because the person did not respond to the legitimate claims of police officers to put an end to the violations. On 9 December, following an invitation from the Presidium of the Saeima, Dr. Janis Plepa, professor of the Faculty of Law of the University of Latvia, and a sworn lawyer Edgars, the latter opinion on the scope of application of Article 29 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia was received. The Commission found that in the event that the Saeima has received information about the restriction of freedom of a Member, the right of the Saeima to decide whether the restriction of freedom of a Saeima Member has been legitimate arises from Article 29 of the Satversme. If a member of the Saeima has been released following an administrative detention, the Saeima may accept that a member of the Saeima has been released and that no objection has been raised by the Saeima against the restriction of his liberty or, on the contrary, accept that the Member has been released, but to express the Saeima's position that the Saeima does not agree with the restriction of liberty that has taken place. Having assessed the information provided, the Commission for Mandate, Ethics and Application found that the administrative detention against the Saeima member had been implemented in order to terminate the administrative violation. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications did not find that 13. The restriction of the freedom of a member of the Saeima Alda Gobzem has been politically motivated or directed towards unjustified interference with the functioning of the Saeima. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2336-U56	Thank you to the rapporteur, on behalf of the Commission. As a result, we have heard a statement “On information provided by the State Police about 13. Administrative detention of Alda Gobzem, Member of the Saeima.’ The agenda for the second remote emergency session of 16 December has also been examined. Members have been registered. In 15 minutes, colleagues, so at 15 p.m. ... Well, let's go at 15.40... let's continue with the agenda of the first remote emergency session on 16 December. So let's get back to work at 15.4. I'm closing the sitting.
