ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U1	Dear colleagues, I hope that now all technical disturbances have been prevented and you hear me. Let us consider the agenda of the fourth remote emergency session of the Saeima on 4 March 2021. On the agenda for the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, trust or distrust. Draft decision “On approval of Anita Rodiņa as a judge of the Constitutional Court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U2	Dear colleagues, The draft decision “On approval of Anita Rodiņa as a judge of the Constitutional Court” was reviewed at the sitting of the Legal Commission on 2 March of this year. The Constitutional Court has seven judges and, in accordance with the law of the Constitutional Court, the Saeima confirms judges in office. Three judges of the Constitutional Court shall be approved on the proposal of not less than 10 members of the Saeima, two - on the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers, two more - on the proposal of the Plenary Session of the Supreme Court. The term of office of a judge of the Constitutional Court shall be 10 years. A new judge of the Constitutional Court should be approved because the former President of the Constitutional Court Ineta Ziemele has been appointed as a judge of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Mrs. Ziemele was approved as a judge of the Constitutional Court on the proposal of the Saeima Members. Five candidates had previously been nominated for the vacant position of a judge of the Constitutional Court. In the judicial election held in December last year, none of the candidates received at least 51 members of the Saeima's support necessary to confirm the position of a judge of the Constitutional Court. The Law “On Judicial Power” provides that the Council for the Judiciary hears candidates for the office of a judge of the Constitutional Court and gives the Saeima an opinion on them. On 26 February, the Council for the Judiciary supported the candidacy of Anita Rodiņa. Anita Rodiņa has been dean of the Faculty of Law of the University of Latvia since 2015. She has obtained a lawyer’s qualification, a doctor’s degree in law in national law, as well as a master’s degree in social sciences in law. Members of the Legal Commission listened to Anita Rodiņa’s vision of the role and further development of the Constitutional Court and discussed issues regarding implementation of judgments of the Constitutional Court. The Members of the Legal Commission also decided on the compliance of Anita Rodiņa with the statutory requirements. All relevant institutions have provided answers confirming that Anita Rodiņa complies with the position of a candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Court. The Legal Commission also decided that Ms Rodina met the criteria set and was suitable for her post. The Legal Commission decided by a majority to direct consideration of the draft decision of the Saeima “On the approval of Anita Rodiņa as a judge of the Constitutional Court”. The final decision must be adopted by the Saeima, therefore, on behalf of the Legal Commission, I invite you to decide on the draft decision “On the approval of Anita Rodiņa as a judge of the Constitutional Court”. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U3	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Development/About! on behalf of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U4	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Hello, colleagues! Hello, everyone who is listening to the Saeima sitting right now! Today, the Saeima is a major test. For several months, the Constitutional Court works in part, and if it continues, Latvians will be able to rightly regard it as the functioning of the Saeima to weaken the Constitutional Court and the rule of law in Latvia. Today we have an excellent opportunity to perform the appointed and elected judge of the Constitutional Court of the Saeima, as the vote is directed by a qualified candidate - the doctor of legal sciences, Dean of the Faculty of Law of the University of Latvia and Associate Professor, Anita Rodiņa. Development/About! By putting Ms. Rodiņa on the post, she assessed her view of the role and place of the Constitutional Court in the country, her view of the independence of courts, the role of judges in public space and other issues. Mrs. Rodiņa's candidacy was also evaluated by an institution essential for the nomination of a judge - the Council for the Judiciary. This online conversation could be followed by everyone interested. Anita Rodiņa pointed out that she agreed to stand as a candidate, evaluating her knowledge, skills and qualifications. The constitutional right is its specialisation in scientific activities. She is familiar with Latvia's experience and development trends in this area of law. The candidate also has a historical memory of building constitutional rights in Latvia, because her first work experience has been working in the Constitutional Court as an assistant to the judge in the first composition of the court. The candidate has acquired the necessary long maturity for the position of the judge, passing through various professional experience. In a conversation with the Council for the Judiciary Anita Rodiņa also pointed out that when she led the Faculty of Law, she led it in international movement, which could also be her contribution to the Constitutional Court, which positions herself at the international regional level. The Council for the Judiciary recognised Anita Rodina as suitable for office. After evaluating the candidates, we also have the full conviction that we could not want better candidates, both for professional and for personal reasons. However, Mrs Rodina will not receive all the votes of the Saeima today. ‘ Why?’ - might ask voters. One of the obvious answers is that there are groups in the Saeima who do not want the fundamental values and freedoms of the people of Latvia to be defended equally and equally, as determined by the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, on whose watch the Constitutional Court stands. When a judge of the Constitutional Court is elected, there is no place to call for ideological differences, there is no place to do so when assessing the professional capacity of a judge in the area of law. On the card is the hope of every person in Latvia and, at the same time, the legitimate demand to be equal before the law and the state. Liberal, conservative, central, social-democratic - everyone in the European country like Latvia needs to defend a single legal area. We don't need ideological judges. We need judges who are familiar with the principles of the legal area of Latvia and the European Union and who are able to apply them in the interests of all Latvian citizens. Anita Rodina will certainly be one of them. I invite you to support Anita Rodiņa's candidacy as a judge of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U5	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U6	Hello, society and colleagues! I call on the whole of society, especially the church, to observe the results of this vote. Why? In the legal commission, I asked Anita Rodiņa how she assessed the critical judgment in the so-called case of sexual minorities, which concerns the question of the family concept in the Constitution. Anita Rodiņa was very positive about this judgment, did not criticise it, despite the fact that the Latvian Constitution did not exist at the time of its establishment, pre-war in Latvia, nor later – no day! - it has not been written that the family concept is in any way intended to be extended. In fact, this means that the said candidate cannot, in my opinion, be a judge of the Satversme, because in this case the Constitutional Court went beyond its competence and ruled politically and not legally. As a lawyer, Mrs Rodina had to refer to it in the Legal Commission, which was not done. I therefore call on - in particular, the representatives of the FAO Group and, in particular, the representatives of the UK, who stand up for the church, as if for traditional values, to vote 'no'. I also call on the National Association to vote 'no'. I will also vote against. All those who vote in favour have actually touched on extending the concept of family in the Constitution. This will be a very significant vote, and this vote is not a 'yes' or 'no' professional, but a professional, despite his constitutional knowledge, afraid to say what has actually been said in the Constitution by writing the Constitution. In principle, there is much more to say about this subject. So, both representatives of the Catholic Church and representatives of the Lutheran Church, watch the vote in this vote on the UK, the National Associations, the ZZS and all those who seem to stand up for traditional values. Those who vote in favour or do not vote or abstain or vote against will, in fact, have shown their position by means of this vote. I call on you to keep your eyes open to work rather than to listen to words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U7	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U8	Please combine the times.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U9	Debate times combined
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U10	Thank you. Dear President, Honourable Members! Without questioning the candidacy and qualification of Mrs. Rodiņa, I think that today we do not need to elect any candidates, because the Constitutional Court, with its ruling on compliance of Section 155 of the Labour Law with Article 110 of the Satversme, has created great legal uncertainty and chaos in the legal space of Latvia. It is clearly and clearly stated in the individual thoughts of Judge Lavins. The adopted decision of the Constitutional Court contradicts one directive of the European Union and at least five laws of the Republic of Latvia, as well as the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights on an identical case in France. I think that we first need a reform of the judicial system by creating a constitutional law department or a department at the Supreme Court, as is the case in Finland, Sweden, Estonia and a number of other small but rich countries. The Constitutional Court, as noted by Professor Rudevskis, is a privilege of large states. Where there are different universities with liberal orientation, universities with conservative orientation, Catholic universities like those in Germany, the United States - where, of course, it pays off, because these judges come from different layers, are representatives of different legal schools and represent different layers of society. In Latvia, as a small country, all six, and the candidate, Mrs Rodiņa, are the graduates of the Master's degree in the Faculty of Law of the University of Latvia, there is no competition, and I think that for as small a country as Latvia is expensive and unnecessary... and it is an unnecessary luxury to maintain the acquaintances of one faculty. This can be done calmly by the Supreme Court. I will name quickly the laws that create chaos, and I think that we must first solve all this chaos here and then continue and think about what to do next. Or you need to look for a judge who can really resist it, let us say, all the foolish things that have been worked out, unfortunately. So the directive... Directive 2019/1158 of the European Parliament and of the Council states precisely that the mother partner of the child is entitled to paternity leave only in those Member States where the legislation of the child's parent is equivalent to that of the other parent. In the Latvian legal system, the mother partner of the child is not equal to the father of the child. According to the Civil Law, the father is only that who is to be recognised as the father on the basis of the paternity assumption; the second paragraph is voluntarily recognised as paternity or recognised as the father of the child by a court judgment. According to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance, the father of the child who has been granted the leave provided for in the contested norm is already entitled to such paternity support. Next. The greatest chaos is the fact that the employer is under an obligation that he cannot fulfil. And why can't it happen? I don't know why the court hasn't looked... Because Section 93 (2) of the Civil Procedure Law... and the second paragraph of Article 152 of the Administrative Procedure Act states: ‘The facts which, by virtue of law, can be proved only by certain means of proof cannot be established by any other means of proof.’ Article 46 of the Law on Registration of Civil Status Acts states that a person is a parent of a child only if it can be proved by a registration document of the Civil Status Act, in a particular case a child’s birth certificate containing information about the mother of the child and the father of the child. And only when the fact is proven by a means of proof authorised by law, is the right of the employer to grant paternity leave provided for by law, while the State Social Insurance Agency is entitled to pay this paternity benefit. It has to be said that our State Social Insurance Agency has grossly violated the law without ensuring who the father of the child is and paying this money, which the prosecutor's office should recover... it should be returned to the State. Next. The legal protection of same-sex partners can take place in different ways. In countries such as Greece, Hungary, Italy, Luxembourg and the Czech Republic, there is exactly the same regulation as that which grants this paternity benefit only to the father of the child. In France, too, a similar case was rejected where a mother’s girlfriend wanted to receive this allowance. And the last one. In fact, it follows from the case of the European Court of Human Rights... in the case of France... Such laws can only be adopted by the sovereign of Latvia – either directly or through a state body, parliament elected in democratic elections. So either we change all these laws and then we look at how to comply with them and think about what to do further with the Constitutional Court... I therefore call for the current vote to be 'no' or 'no'. And I would advise Mrs Rodina, however, to give up on her own, and on her own, on this wolf pit and the chaos that has been created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U11	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U12	President of the sitting, colleagues. This vote will be somewhat different from the previous move when the Saeima tried to elect a judge of the Constitutional Court. If I tried to answer what Mr Kirštein said about having to reform the courts... The reform of the courts can be done, there is every opportunity to do so, but at the moment we have the order. If we look at it, the previous time, in whatever way I think, all the political groups voted to a large extent - politically for themselves sympathetic candidates, and all the discussions were not about the professionalism of these people, but about their political views and their political affiliation. And I think it also ended up in the votes and in the fact that these votes ended with nothing. In this case, I think first of all, however, there is this professional aspect, which is being evaluated, and Mrs Rodiņa, as one of the few people in Latvia, who are really experts in constitutional law, is one of the leaders in this area. If we want to see a person who is an expert in these matters in the Constitutional Court, then Mrs. Rodiņa is definitely that one. The Union of Greens/Farmers met with Ms Rodiņa at both the Greens/Farmers' Union and the Group's meeting, as well as at the Board meeting of the Latvian Farmers' Union, where we also listened very long and wide on ideological issues, and the answers we received were highly professional. I could even say that they were apolitic answers and did not in any way mark Mrs. Rodina at either liberal or... How else is it... conservative ends. I would in no way like to turn the issue into a liberal or conservative... In this case, I would like to say that the Union of Greens/farmers will vote for this person politically as a professional expert in his field, which has not only been recognised... which is also recognised by all parties for being a professional. And no one can deny it. If we look at the judgments of the Constitutional Court, then we will be objective. On Friday, the Constitutional Court will issue a judgment in the first two cases related to administrative territorial reform. Whatever the judgment, a part of society, a large part of society, will be dissatisfied. If the Constitutional Court tells you that non-compliance with international norms is a normal practice, of course, for me personally it will not be acceptable, because it will send a signal that the Saeima can do anything and absolutely no matter what methods and the Constitutional Court finds it acceptable. As well as on the issue of this benefit - there are also different thoughts, but in the Constitutional Court they are not the only issues. We therefore need to see that this judge, who goes to the post, is highly qualified, without political "popularity", to say that he who does not have a political background and who is professional and able to carry out those duties. I very much hope that the Saeima will be able to agree today on the candidacy of Anita Rodina that we will support him. If we fail, then I think it will be quite a challenge to find a judge at all. Then it will be necessary to agree on political quotas and politicians themselves should go to the Constitutional Court. Well, I think that would not be the way, because today we are deciding on Mrs Rodina, after a very short time - already in summer - we will come from the government to decide again. Therefore, colleagues, let us assess these candidates by their professionalism. It is true, however, that it is the same as everyone else. Let's respect the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U13	Thank you. Name to Member Aivars Gaidan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U14	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, No one doubts the professionalism, competence and knowledge of Mrs Rodina, but it is important to draw colleagues' attention to an essential fact that nobody is talking about. At the moment it seems that the Faculty of Law of the University of Latvia is transferred to the Constitutional Court. A large part of the judges and employees of the Constitution are from the Faculty of Law of the University of Latvia, some are even from one department. And in the middle, Lauris Liepa, who also works at the Faculty of Law of the University of Latvia in a department with Osipov, Rezevska, Neiman and Kuč, which is from the neighbouring department. And now we're going to get them the more dean of the Faculty of Law, Mrs. Rodina. It's an absolute chic union. In principle, meaning is lost for maintenance of the building of the Constitutional Court, because these judges can judge the court in the Small Aule of the University of Latvia, closer to the location of the Faculty of Law. I do not know any serious state of the European Union, which has been brought together in the constitutional court of all the Faculty of Law of the same university. Therefore, foredays should be considered a candidate from another legal environment - a lawyer's office, a prosecutor's office, other universities. I therefore call on my fellow Members to vote in their own minds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U15	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U16	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, When I was looking at this candidacy, I also had the opportunity to ask a question at the sitting of the Legal Commission. And the essence of my question was that, at the time, the Constitutional Court had looked at the issue of the border and it was that a decision was made that this territory, which is Abrene and six parishes, was left to the state of the Russian Federation. I asked whether it really had any reason, or whether this decision was correct, because I referred to the fact that, however, the Latvian state was established on the basis that three historical administrative territories - the Gulf of Kurzeme, the Gulf of Vidzeme, as well as that of Vitebsk... The Latvians who lived in these gourds, counties, made a joint decision. These were administrative areas. And our country of Latvia, the Republic of Latvia, was established. Ms Rodiņa referred to the judgment of the Constitutional Court. I have assessed this judgment - the judgment of 29 November 2007. Yes, indeed, there are interesting things that have been mentioned. It is said, for example, in paragraph 7.3 that when the Cabinet of Ministers asked for a solution to the issue of these borders, it indicated that, first of all, the implementation of the political objectives of the time, namely, the creation of a unified whole of the Latvian State as four ethnographic regions... So it is mentioned - ethnographic, not administrative. Go on. It was also noted that by referring to Article 3 of the Satversme, which is the basis for the creation of Latvia, in relation to Latgale, it was mentioned that this article was adopted to prevent the possible separation of Latgale from Latvia. Well, you know, it's a nightmare! And I understand that at a time when it would be necessary to resolve the border issue of the deprived area in 1944 in order to join the European Union and NATO, perhaps this external border... those questions were to be put together, but to remain at what is actually a historical injustice, that Latvia was made up of ethnographic regions - that is, it's total folly! And Mrs Rodina also referred to this. I am sorry, but here it was necessary to at least analyze as a future candidate, at least try to be clear about this issue in the future. We cannot leave this thing behind. I remember many today, too, of the Fatherland... The politicians of the National Alliance who had written on their bare breasts “Let’s not return Abren!” and so on. And then this question was forgotten. I would, however, wish Mrs Rodina this particular issue - it is not simple, it is difficult - to analyse very carefully. And the Constitutional Court also has to take a specific decision, because the decision on the boundaries, where these ethnographic districts or regions have been recognised - Latgale, Vidzeme, Zemgale, Kurzeme - hinders the creation of administrative regions as administrative territories. If we leave this error in Latvia, then there is no future for Latvia as a single territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U17	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U18	Well, since Aivars Lembergs has been in prison, the ZZS has become gay and lesbian defenders, and I understand that, listening to Mr. Valaiņš. I call, however, on Mr Valaiņa, to reflect on the whole of the ZZS, because the matter within the Legal Commission was very direct - on the particular judgment - and there was a very direct answer. By voting in favour of Mrs Rodina, you will vote against traditional values and against the understanding of traditional family values in the Constitution. Fisheries, don't do this, please! And whatever the consultation has been, the Constitutional Court... In all countries, including the United States, judges are chosen according to ideological settings - not only professional but also ideological ones. And that is very important. At the moment, you are refusing, ZZS, from ideological settings, to become, in fact, another political group in the Saeima, which refuses to defend traditional values, because the highest place to defend traditional values is the Constitutional Court. And it is very likely that this will be the decisive vote of a judge in one of the next judgments. I call on you to do so, if not, I will have all of you in future, including Mr Valaiņš, to call a liberal party that does not defend traditional values and that has given up ideology. I'm talking about professionalism. No one questions professionalism, but professionalism is not the only one, it is necessary to be a set of characteristics in order to become a judge of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U19	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. clear= all sty l e='page-break-before: always'>
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U20	Dear colleagues, I, too, would like to join Aldim Gobzem in calling on our colleagues from the Saeima, who have positioned themselves as representatives of conservative values and also bring this message to their constituents, and make promises. I also call on the honorable representatives of the SASKAN, however you may not be forced to vote or to vote there, but do not choose Mrs Rodiņa as candidates for the judge of the Constitutional Court. Because the situation, which is already present, will probably need to be corrected for the general public if we talk about the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which has practically changed the concept of the family in the history of Latvia and which will now be tried to correct Latvian society, trying to knock down to the Saeima in one way or another. I do not think that the Constitutional Court will become more humane, smarter and fairer... Unfortunately. I believe that it is not mandatory to be an expert in constitutional law as a judge of the Constitutional Court, it must also be a lawyer in a broad field... not only in constitutional law, therefore this composition of the Constitutional Court could be supplemented with another candidate. We very much hope - we very much hope! - that we will not have made our choice today and will wait for the third round. And then there will come the appropriate candidate, whom we are looking forward to... regarding the composition of the Constitutional Court. We very much hope that this decision will not be taken today, and I really also call on honourable colleagues from the FAO not to rush into taking the decision. You are also very aware of the fact that conservative non-governmental organizations in all their volumes, in all their large number, have stood up for a judge of the Constitutional Court to be elected according to the conviction of values. And the conviction of your values is not the same as that of Mrs. Rodina. She has also confirmed this at the meeting of the Legal Commission. All conservative NGOs call on you not to support Mrs Rodiņa's candidacy in the Constitutional Court. Therefore, I also call on all colleagues who may try to convince their voters in the municipal elections or the Saeima elections - do not do so, because then your vote will certainly turn out to be other judgments of the Constitutional Court, for which everyone will be ashamed. Thank you. Colleagues, I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U21	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U22	Well, some colleagues have already outlined the situation that we have had with the Constitutional Court. Indeed, for a large part of society (not only in the Saeima) there have been reasonable questions about how decisions of the Constitutional Court are being prepared and guided by what interests and values. Unfortunately, I also have to conclude that the way in which the Constitutional Court has acted has often not been by law and righteousness, but by trying to serve the ruling economy. There have been political decisions. One of the most prominent things I can fully answer and prove is the same decision on OIC. How did the Constitutional Court get rid of the decision, decision on the substance of the facts submitted to it, and even in some way was played. Just one example for you to understand what the Constitutional Court is doing, the cantor, who really, if they continue to do so, I do not see any future. Thus, one of the cases in the application concerning OIC was overcompensation, that the aid was too generous. They were submitted demonstrably... evidence that this is the case. What did the Constitutional Court do to avoid doing so? It was specifically pointed out that this question should be referred to the European Commission, because it was the European Commission, by its decision, which principles should be laid down on the basis of which this compensation mechanism should be determined. What did the Constitutional Court do? It didn't turn around at all... Six months later, during this six-month period, the European Commission never looked to find out. All kinds of experts involved in this as if the industry had prepared the necessary decisions for them, the necessary justifications that, you see, everything is as if it's right that it doesn't have to be seen at all, but they didn't ask these questions to the European Commission. Moreover, when I saw what the Constitutional Court is doing, I sent a letter from the Commissioner of the European Commission, in which she herself had already said in a clear text that such a system of support was not in line with the rules of European Union law and the decision she had taken. What did the Constitutional Court do? It simply ignored this decision because, you see, it was sent at the last moment and was not translated to them... It was in English, and they said that we would not see them in English. All right, you can't see it, but you could have asked for this information yourself. That is what the Constitutional Court is doing to simply serve this political elite by making politically engaged decisions. Therefore, my colleagues, I see that we really have very serious problems with the Constitutional Court, with an institution as such in substance, and it is really worth seeing here whether we have failed to do so in the sense that, indeed, perhaps we must go ahead with an example of our neighbours and this institution must be transformed into something else. In essence, to be executed by another institution, as has been mentioned, perhaps by a constitutional department at the Supreme Court or as such, because it is obvious that this court does not judge by court and justice at the moment. Well, the only hope is that we put new blood into it, because it can be seen that the existing composition does not really get them there, and that this new blood will be able to change something. If they cannot be changed, then I think colleagues really need to think about much more serious measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U23	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U24	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Dear colleagues, This time I would like to appeal not to you, but to the Constitutional judges, both present and future. I am convinced that you are all listening carefully to the debate that is taking place today. I am convinced that you also follow quite carefully what is happening around the process of nomination of judges of the Saeima in these last months. And I think you need to draw very serious conclusions from this. I hope that you now see what is happening and what will happen when the Constitutional Court begins to make decisions, which by their very nature are political, perhaps not so much from professional legal considerations, but perhaps from the political context. Then I think you see what is happening and what will happen to the independence of the Constitutional Court. Look at this debate. Are you still sure you're independent? You are convinced that the election of who will be and who will not be a judge or a judge will depend on the candidate's professional qualifications, the number of education and publications, but not on the position of this judge or this judge on a specific political issue, and that you must follow what is happening, very carefully, because it will be what will happen if you also... if the Constitutional Court follows this path... I think it's a very non-professional path. Unfortunately, then, the Saeima will degrade until the first place will be the position of this candidate on political issues, not the professional qualifications of candidates. I call on you to think very seriously about this. But now, addressing my colleagues, I call on you, at least today, to vote in favour of the candidate who is the professionally most suitable for it. I have no doubt that Anita Rodiņa is professionally suitable for it. I hope that Anita Rodiņa also, listening carefully to this debate, will draw conclusions from what has been said as to whether, when taking decisions in the Constitutional Court, they should be adopted solely on the basis of legal, professional considerations or to play a policy. I hope you see what is happening and what will happen if the Constitutional Court starts playing in politics. I invite you to support Anita Rodina, colleagues. Let's see what happens next. Let us hope that the judges of the Constitutional Court will understand this lesson and make the right conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U25	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U26	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, In my opinion, this debate has already gone a little too far now. We wish a judge of the Constitutional Court. The Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union, too... As my fellow Member Mr Valaiņa said earlier, we listened to Mrs Rodina. We also raised these ideological issues, including perhaps even some provocative question, whether the judge should look at them from his ideological convictions. And what told us was not, at least, in the answers of Mrs Rodiņa, which she gave us about an ideology, it was about the meaning and spirit of the Constitution, about our constitution, the Constitution, the highest law of Latvia - it is a specific law or norm of the particular Article of the Satversme or it does not. And that's very important, colleagues! If we now start sorting judges according to their ideology or so, I think it will be quite wrong, because the moment may come when all judges will only be assembled according to their ideological belief. Well then we can threaten our country. For us parliamentarians, it is also very important to know... in fact, it also means following those judgments. Of course, if we do not like something, we have the right to change the constitution, amend the constitution, but it is very important that the judge of the Constitutional Court respects neutrality and judges in accordance with the Constitution. And this is not about liberal or conservative or central, it is about the Constitution. Judges of the Constitutional Court are guardians of the Constitution, who monitor whether the legislator works in accordance with the Constitution, the highest constitution. And we listened to Mrs. Rodina, and indeed the candidacy left a very professional impression. That is why at least most of the colleagues in the Group of the Greens/Family Union will support Mrs Rodina's candidacy. We wish success and, in the case of election, work successfully in accordance with the Constitution, according to the meaning and spirit of the Constitution, not to one or the other ideologies of one or the other. actually ideologies in any direction. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U27	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U28	Thank you, honourable Speaker of the Saeima. When we listen to the debate, there are three clear trends from those people and fellow Members who speak as if they were a conservative force or otherwise. The first trend, which has also been made in the debate on the election of the Ombudsman, is to question the professionalism of any candidate, any person. What does this indicate? Likely, these are doubts about themselves. But questioning people's experience and professionalism is one way to undermine the prestige of any profession, including the judge. Secondly. Challenge education. And I would even like to say, questioning education as a value, pointing out that a single university suddenly does not like any particular political power, because they see that they would like to choose a judge from their designated or chosen universities or jobs. Thirdly. I would say that there is a very well-balanced and visible tendency to influence the power of the courts politically, covering up with various conjecturions, for example, about judicial reform, about the creation of a judicial Academy, where most likely someone would like to build new judges by their own face and similarity. Reform everything, undermine everything, because basically we question the education received and question professionalism, because only those who are now responsible for the judiciary, or those who are even responsible for the judiciary at this point in the Cabinet, are the right ones. I call for support for the candidates precisely because we have had a long, politicised debate before. Furthermore, I agree that it is necessary to ensure that the Constitutional Court can work in full and in full. Some decisions may have to be debated, especially if we are talking about funding higher education, where the Saeima now pretends that such a decision has not been taken and that it is not necessary to talk about it. We are talking only about this in the Saeima, the honourable coalition that looks populist and the nation "interesting" (in the sole.). But indeed, it seems that it would be a place to talk about the decision of the Constitutional Court of higher education, which requires a certain revision of budgetary principles. I invite you to now elect a judge of the Constitutional Court and then see what to do further or what to modify. Ms. Anita Rodiņa is not responsible for previous decisions, but Mrs. Northeles is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U29	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U30	So, again. I cannot fully agree with my colleague Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. That is a political issue. And is the Constitution not a political document? There, any candidate and judge should know this Constitution as an obez, as a multiple invoice. If there is a specific question about this Article 3 of the Satversme and if there is this glue - ethnographic or some other region - then I have to remind you of history. Do you really think that some ethnographic aunts formed a country? It was necessary for several years, and the representatives from the countries, from the clergy came together, planned how to obtain autonomy from Russia at the beginning, and then this independent state. That is, every administrative territory - Latgale, Vidzeme, Zemgale - delegated its representatives, the Congress was in Latgale. Is that not an administrative, say, regional decision? And you say leave this as it was when these regions... Article 3 is not amended. I cannot agree with that. And Mrs Rodina, as a future candidate, had to think about how to deal with this question that I asked, not how to speak out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U31	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U32	Yes, when you listen to this debate, one can say that someone is moving in two directions. First. On the Constitutional Court. It is the way we have created it and the way it exists all these years - with our problems, with our indecisions and mistakes. I also had relations, if you can call it, with the Constitutional Court. I was not quite satisfied with the judgment either, but I know very well that the opinions in the Constitutional Court are shared very often about the decisions made, and yet I hope that most of the winners are professionalism, even though there were exceptional cases. But it's not a story. Today we are talking about candidates. Naturally, no candidate is similar to a silver fifth who likes everyone. So here too is a lot subjective. If we have not worked together, lived, met with the candidate, if we value only the characteristics, the rest, then we have to rely on professionalism, which is beyond doubt and indisputable. That's the point one. Two points. But it seems to me, however, that we should judge, not by words, but by deeds. And the work in the Constitutional Court will also show whether it was the right choice or - as one time before - not the very right choice. That is why, today, it is a question of every person, of every Member's conscience, not only of conscience, but also of common sense, of supporting or not supporting the nomination. Personally, I will support you through the professionalism that I value very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U33	The name of the Member, John Isal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U34	Hello, colleagues! I am a little confused about the attempts of some colleagues, particularly Mr Tatar, to seduce strangers and keep their constituents as fools, who do not understand where candidates' professionalism ends and where decisions, however, are starting to be very important, affecting the lives of society as a whole on the political board. And it is clear that judges of the Constitutional Court should not be evaluated only from a professional point of view. It is absolutely clear that Anita Rodiņa is a professional lawyer of constitutional law. But both the questions asked by the Legal Commission and several political groups... conservative groups in conjunction with Anita Rodiņš... By asking questions about these issues of values, about the judgement of the Constitutional Court of 12 November, which openly intervened in the competence of the legislator... It was not a legal decision, but a political decision, which is the competence of the Saeima. It is clear that during this time we can no longer avoid assessing judges of the Constitutional Court, what their personal convictions are. This happens in America, it happens in European countries, and let us not hold our voters for fools, Mr Tatars, saying that the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court is only a professional issue and they will not further represent certain values in the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U35	Name of Member Inese Lībins-Egner.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U36	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Very difficult debate, and in some way I am pleased that it is so difficult because, of course, there are things that we need to speak here as fellow Members or, to say this, to speak out from the heart, because, of course, the case law of the Constitutional Court, as it is in Latvia, has probably not been politically debated for some time. Now too, when we come here, the e-Saema platform may lack such a broader discussion between colleagues, including commissions. Therefore, I would not even say that the political discussion or political sanctification right now is good or bad when thinking about the parliamentary candidate for the Constitutional Court; it simply needs to be, and it also reflects us as sovereign elected representatives here in Parliament. But the question is that one candidate has been given to us today for our bliss and elections. A rather long deadline was set for the submission of applications, but one candidacy was submitted. A deadline was set for the election of candidates by the Legal Commission, the candidate has been supported. The Council for the Judiciary, when assessing the professional knowledge of the candidate, has supported the candidate. And our debate today on the place and role of the Constitutional Court in the Republic of Latvia is related to Article 85 of the Satversme, not this particular candidate. Therefore, in my opinion, we should think about it, if the Saeima itself has established to the Constitutional Court the procedure for the election of these seven judges of the Constitutional Court, that three represent the Saeima, two - the Cabinet of Ministers, two - the Supreme Court, then, what is what we expect from the candidate elected by the Saeima? If it's professionalism... and I very much hope that this was not a criticism of the academic environment of lawyers, because the academic environment is very painful, much more painful than the political environment - it is intolerant of predation, it is intolerant of inaction. To stay in the academic environment, to be elected as associate professor or Chair of the Department at the Faculty of Law of the University of Latvia – it is not an easy challenge to enter the Saeima with one of the locomotives, it is a hard work day from day to day, working on publications, working with students. The Faculty of Law is not a hill of ideology. Here, among the Members of the Saeima, are graduates of the Faculty of Law with a variety of ideologies, studied at the same lecturers, became good lawyers, good Members of the Saeima, representing a variety of ideologies. Yes, I understand that something needs to be said off, but maybe this is not the right way to defraud a professional lawyer who has reached high laurels in law, including in the environment of European law-makers. I very much hope that every time we have to debate a candidate for the office of a judge of the Constitutional Court, we will have such candidates who will want to be discussed at the Saeima sitting. I asked you to connect the two speaking times, Mrs. Mourniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U37	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U38	And we will not have to look for the candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Court, involving the recruitment company, as we have just decided on the public media of supervisors at the general meeting of the Presidium and Fraction Council. We want professionals to trust that here we value their professional abilities, qualifications, personal maturity. Yes, there are politically sensitive topics in the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court itself does not initiate a case. There are very different cases coming to the Constitutional Court – both as an application of one person, as an application of Members, and a question, which the Ombudsman initially suffered. And there are things where, yes, also the law, the law that we are debating here, can be declared unconstitutional. It may also be that the applicant has hoped that the law will be declared incompatible with the Satversme, but the Constitutional Court has not seen a violation of fundamental rights or procedure. And there is a procedure in all these cases, because, as we would like to think, law is not an accurate science, but in order to carry out this test of fundamental rights to assess compliance with fundamental rights, we can regard it as an accurate science. I really hope very, very much, despite all the contradictions that have been said here, that everyone knows that the Constitutional Court will be strong if we, as legislator, are strong. And often, without doing our own homework here, we also give the Constitutional Court an opportunity to declare one of the laws we have adopted as incompatible with the Constitution. Very good discussions today, but I really call on you to appreciate that a professional candidate has entrusted this sanctification to us. I will support Anita Rodiņa, I have submitted her candidacy, and I call on everyone to support it, because I want to be a professional, not a political, constitutional court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U39	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U40	Thank you. Colleagues! Well, we seem to forget about the basic idea of sharing power. We want the Constitutional Court to act politically? No, no. However, its reference to US experience is really not in place, because the European system differs quite substantially and the independence of judges and courts is the power of modern law... in principle a cornerstone. It is really hard for me to imagine that you want to appoint a judge who will be guided by the programme of a certain political party. What happens if the judge acts differently? Will he be withdrawn? The judge shall be completely independent. And court decisions should not be criticised or... just accept them -- like them or not. I have some experience with the Constitutional Court. There were both winnted cases and lost cases, but I never allowed to say that the Constitutional Court was wrong and so on. You don't have to link the court to the legislator. The legislator and the court have completely different functions in democracy. Our task is to adopt laws, the task of the Constitutional Court is to evaluate the law adopted by us from the point of view of compliance with the Satversme. The Constitutional Court is the institution which is competent to interpret the letter and spirit of the Satversme. And it seems that some colleagues want to ensure in advance that the Constitutional Court will do so in accordance with the political conviction of a particular party. But it's a dead end. Courts imposed are not true courts. It is simply a matter of trusting professionals. I also believe that Mrs Rodina's candidacy is the best of what is possible today. And, colleagues, this simply shows once again how weak your coalition is, that it has the character of a chance. I will not repeat what I have already said today, but there is no other way out in this situation than really relying on professionalism. I agree with those who are talking about this today. Your ideal seems to be something similar to what is happening today, for example in Poland, when the political power is in full control of the court. I advise you to read what the European Union says about this, for example, and how... how sharp it is, seriously it criticises Poland with completely concrete consequences. Do we really want to be like this policy? Thank God, that's impossible. There is no one clearly dominant political power in Latvia, but we should not fall into another extreme, that there is a purely political market and this place is returned to the Constitutional Court simply to a party, and we know in advance that a particular judge is a person of a particular party. Thank God, it doesn't happen, and it doesn't have to happen in this way. So I think that there is no other way at the moment than to support Mrs Rodina's candidacy, and I would very much call on all my fellow Members not to forget the basic principles and basic concepts, whether you are conservative or liberal or socio-democratic - no matter. I very much hope that we all take very seriously the fundamental principles of democracy, human rights and the rule of law. And the independence of the court is one of these fundamental principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U41	Name to Member Juris Rancan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U42	Hello, colleagues! Listening to this debate... We talk a lot about professionalism. I would just like to ask those who have already spoken and who said that this is only about professionalism: where in our sadly famous judgment four of the six judges had the professionalism that they were unable to see the need for a legal link between a child and a parent. Where was professionalism? Because such a link is necessary. If they ignored this link, it means that they were already mixing in politics. They had every opportunity to judge narrowly, they went beyond the borders, they fell in... or intervened in the policy area. And very rightly here, Mr Dombrovskis, I think he noted that these discussions are currently taking place precisely because of the interference in the policy area by judges. If we talk about professionalism and try to narrow our assessment as a legislative candidate to this professionalism, I would like to say that it is not enough. There is also a need for impartiality, loyalty to the specific society and culture. I would like to say that a very professional judge or any very professional official with an incorrect value system is an even greater threat to the state and society than any ordinary havoc. In my opinion, loyalty, impartiality and political neutrality are the qualities that are compatible with this particular candidate. This network of old boys (in English it can be translated) was also very rightly noted here, or a system of "blanks" that all come from one university – classmates. Forgive me, in this particular case, I would like to see that all of this ideologically inclined Constitutional Court, which we currently have, serves one of the currently dominant ideology in Europe, that it should be balanced, however, by a very professional person who would become more aware of in which society he lives. He would understand how the society perceives it or another thing at the moment, he would be loyal to that society and the state and put the interests of the particular society first so that people would not get bread eaten, but sing a strange song. I'm sorry, my fellow Members, we need to look more at this, and we need to go beyond narrow professionalism. We have close professionals and smart people working sometimes against the interests of the state and society in the country. I would like to see honest, loyal judges in the Constitutional Court, not those who have no confusion about the absence of this legal link between the child and the parent... Just because it seems an ideology that matters to them - it is modern, and an ideology demands it, and it would be good if we decided and tried to look like what we need to look like now, in their opinion. I would say that we should think very much about the fact that the Constitutional Court is currently being used as an instrument for an unwanted transformation of society. Without demanding anything, with very cunning interpretations, we are placed in concrete frames of one ideology. I'm sorry, there needs to be a balance, colleagues, and that's why I'm happy to see a more conservative candidate here... and not from the Faculty of Law of the University of Latvia. I believe that there are enough qualified professionals in other universities as well, and I hope that they will also stand and enter these posts, and they will balance, in my opinion, the currently politicised Constitutional Court. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U43	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U44	Dear colleagues, A really good debate today. I agree with my colleague, who said that I think I really need to talk. Maybe it needs to be done more often. I will answer the question asked by both Mr Kazinovsky and some other colleagues about it... Then this choice of judge, especially a judge of the Constitutional Court... whether it should be a political choice. It is a political choice or a purely professional choice. Colleagues, the ancient Greeks answered that question. The embodiment of justice, the god of justice Themis is blind. Colleagues, blind, blind. Ask yourself a question (as perhaps you will also be tried once - perhaps from the Constitutional Court, perhaps from some other court): do you want you to judge a person who has become a judge thanks to your ideological orientation? Political faith? For your nationality? Would you like the judge to be blind in the sense of this word? Colleagues, the nearest, where we can come to this blindness - based on the professionalism of a person, not on whether he likes Russians or Latvians, what he thinks about gays or other minorities and so on, because already on the day we start choosing judges in this way, the rule of law will end, colleagues. And, as I said, the judges of the Constitution should also be remembered, because all this is in your hands. If you continue to do so, it will be a political choice in the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U45	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U46	Very short. Indeed, when it comes to professionalism, it seems to me that professionalism involves everything that we have talked about today - both neutrality, strong spine and bright view of life and everything else. One point. Two points. Talking about the Constitutional Court - cannot be amended, changed, revoked as an institution of the Constitutional Court, but a norm can be introduced that, let us say, those contentious draft laws that come through the Saeima receive expertise before they are adopted by the Constitutional Court. It can be corrected by the law of the Constitutional Court. Three points. Speaking of a nest where different birds come from. Member Juris Dobeli and I studied for five years in one group, one faculty, one course. Well, we're very different, very different from all... of all types. This does not prevent us from ‘rearing’ every year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U47	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U48	Thank you, Madam President. Well, to be honest, representatives of one party, speakers, thank you very much. Speak straight, straight, but not direct, not fair. Your proposal to create... to evaluate judges who have wrong values, asks whether you will propose a new draft law that will determine the right or wrong values or how to determine these people's correct or wrong values? You also want to eliminate this right now that a person is free in his own beliefs and also in expressing his own values? Remember that we are talking about a judge, we are not talking about another profession, where people professionally may also afford something subjective. We rely on judges as objective evaluators and evaluators, not on right or wrong values. I understand that, to some extent, the insistence on one university (or, at this point, Mrs Anita Rodiņa's job) is to be seen as retaliation for a legal process that has already been lost. And you want to reduce at this point, I would say openly, the autonomy of the universities, and to that end you also led the amendments to your University Law, which, thanks to the majority of the Saeima, we all deleted. I call, however, for freedom of expression not to be denied, values to be expressed in order to eliminate the right and wrong and also university autonomy. Support Anita Rodina! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U49	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U50	Yes, it was Mrs Rodiņa who argued for the autonomy of the University of Latvia at a time when this autonomy was challenged by the representative of the New Conservative Party, the Minister of Education and Science. In the end, Mrs Rodiņa also won the victory, and it turned out that the University of Latvia was right. But this debate. Of course, if you ask a particular expert, a person, in particular a lawyer, whether it is white or black, if he has not studied that case, or if he has studied it (in this case, where the Constitutional Court has already decided), I think that the answer is... Whatever its nature, whether diplomatic or not, it can then be discussed and discussed in all ways as conservative or liberal. We met twice in the Union of Greens/Farmers and asked these questions. We discussed them, not only by answering one question, but much more broadly by discussing these questions, and I strongly doubt their efforts to explain that Mrs Rodina is very liberal. If a lawyer or lawyer is asked: ‘ Is this a case in court... Will I win the court?’ and he will answer “A hundred percent - yes!” , then I will immediately go away from that lawyer and from that lawyer, because that means that he is an expressed dilettant. And in this case, too, what has happened to Mrs Rodina's question - that is absolutely understandable... its answers. And we were convinced. As far as Mr. Izalnieks is concerned. I think that, in conservatism, Mr Tatar and the Group of the Greens/farmers are really... We do not change the course, and we are certainly more conservative than the National Association. But remember those judges who voted in favour of this decision, whether they were you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U51	The name to Member Juris Rancan for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U52	Yes, thank you, colleagues. I will clarify this comment on the value system a little bit, not on values, but of course we can also talk about values. I believe that a professional judge who should be in the position of a Constitutional judge should have the following right values: fairness, justice, political neutrality, loyalty to society. I wonder why it was not heard from individual Members. I was counting four. You might feel that there may also be other values, but I would not like to think that these are some unacceptable values in our society that are for corrupt officials, unscrupulous officials. These are the wrong values: dishonesty, I would say, conformism to a large extent, failure to stand up for its position, to bow to ideological considerations. This is a wrong value system. You know, we still live in that country. Everyone has a job and a job. Fairness - that is the right value, it must be, especially if a person is in such a high position. There are these specific values without which the existence of our country is not possible. And only if the officials represent this right system of values, which I have just listed, can we talk about the fact that the country can exist in the long term and work effectively. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U53	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U54	Yes, colleagues, I will agree with Mrs Lībiņa-Egnere that the academic environment is harsh. We can see this from the fact that the best Latvian lawyers Baiba and Juris Rudevski are forced to live in another country because they have a very, very difficult job here. But, Mrs Lībiņa-Egnere, we would probably not like to hear how you have built your career, how difficult or easy you have been, we do not want to hear it, it will not be right, take care of us. If we are talking about judges, then it was really a very, very good test - to ask specifically the candidate for the position of judge how he evaluates this judgment of the Constitutional Court. Listening to the debate of the Constitutional Court in this famous and scandalous case, the lawyers (we are talking about lawyers who are lawyers with the heart and soul, and not just beers of paper) were ashamed. They were ashamed, and they realized that legality was dying right now. Therefore, the person who calls himself a really lawyer, if he says that this judgment of the Constitutional Court is correct and fair, he will build his decisions further on a very lavish system of values. And I call on all those colleagues, Conservative colleagues who will vote today in favour of Mrs Rodina's candidacy to remember that the future judgments of the Constitutional Court will be on your conscience and we will definitely mention that. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U55	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U56	I also - reflecting on the debate, on what was mentioned here - that the Constitutional Court always decides competently and that the fact that a Member does not like the decisions of the Constitutional Court does not mean that they have been decided as otherwise than only competent. I assume that it was perhaps a reference to my claims in relation to the OIC. And here I would like to clarify and point out such an important case that this decision, which was adopted by the Constitutional Court, was not agreed by the judges of the Constitutional Court itself and several judges of the Constitutional Court added their individual thoughts. And its essence is the following, after... What I tried to explain is that the Constitutional Court specifically chose the scope when assessing this request, so that it should not assess those aspects that would be undesirable for the existing political power. Because it was obvious that they would have to make a scandalous, very scandalous decision, which would probably also have changed the current composition of the Saeima in principle. Perhaps we would have a completely different, more meaningful and more powerful Saeima today. This was not done, and it is one of the consequences that we are now enjoying from the actions of this Constitutional Court. Therefore, colleagues, I really call on you to follow the Constitutional Court, how competent they are, how responsible it is, how really in accordance with those values... In my opinion, the value system mentioned by Mr. Rancāns is indeed a good criterion by which it would be worth looking at what the Constitutional Court is doing. And if we see that this political ingenuity, this constitutionalism will continue in this institution, then such an institution is not needed for a democratic, legal state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U57	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Agešin, is there anything to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U58	Thank you, nothing can be added.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2214-U59	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the approval of Anita Rodiņa as a Constitutional Court Judge”! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thus, the judge of the Constitutional Court has been elected. Congratulations to Anita Rodina on the election as a judge of the Constitutional Court! Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting has been examined. Time for notification. The next sitting, i.e. the fourth remote emergency sitting on 11 March this year, which has two Covid-19 Covid-19 drafts on the budget and financial (tax) commission's agenda, which we will see in 15 minutes, at 16:55. Colleagues! So we'll keep working in 15 minutes. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. I therefore closed the fourth remote emergency sitting on 4 March 2021. See you in 15 minutes.
