ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U1	Dear Members, Honourable Members! The third remote emergency sitting of the Saeima was opened on 14 January 2021. And so as the first on the agenda, the Bureau reports on the draft laws that have been tabled. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” submitted by Member Iesalnieks, Dzintars, Jansons, Kola and Indricsons be submitted to all Saeima commissions and that the Legal Commission be the committee responsible. Members have applied to speak about the referral of and against the draft law to commissions. Member Maria Golubeva has previously applied to speak against. Please name Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U2	Dear colleagues, The amendment proposed by the National Association in Article 110 of the Satversme is an attempt to separate the right and wrong of the Latvian family, it is a call for discrimination. For families that do not meet the ideals of a group of people, cynically, their lowest place in the hierarchy of families is indicated. Such family and non-family division is contrary to human dignity, to the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and to the values of a democratic state. If the amendment were adopted, the country would thus be away from those citizens whose families are not recognised as good. There is no known time when only one family model existed. There are, there are and there will be different families in social reality, based on mutual care and respect, and the state must protect them. I also draw attention to the fact that the purpose of the amendment of the National Association is to prevent compliance with the decision of the Constitutional Court on families forming the same-sex couple. It is not a good idea to instrumentize the Constitution to achieve the extortion of some already vulnerable group from the legal field. Several scientists, cultural workers, professors, teachers and also teachers have opposed this amendment. Yes, the amendment also has supporters. It is also worth mentioning that some of them have indicated in their letters the alleged decline of the West and have called for them to stay away from the West. You have to ask who should get closer, if not the Western world? Is Putin to Russia, who recently adopted similar amendments to the constitution? Human dignity is a fundamental value of Western civilisation and will not allow it to be destroyed! We are told that we want to protect the Latvian family, but instead of implementing the principles of human love, for political purposes, society is divided and the so-called cultural war is brought into Latvia, which fortifies positions, increases tension and prevents people from cooperating with different views. But Latvia cannot afford to reject and lose its people. I believe that the support for the inclusion of a discriminatory amendment to the Constitution is a contempt for the principles of a democratic, European state. I call for this provocation to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U3	Member Jānis Iesalnieks has applied for the referral of the draft law to the commissions. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U4	Hello, Members! On 12 November last year, the Constitutional Court delivered a judgment in the case “On Compliance of Section 155(1) of the Labour Law with the First Sentence of Article 110 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia”. In this judgment also families of same-sex partners entered into the family concept of Article 110 of the Satversme. Such an arbitrary interpretation of the concept of an extended family is not in line with the will of the legislator when adopting... In the present version of Article 110 of the Satversme, not Latvian society's understanding of who the family is. Moreover, by this judgment, the Constitutional Court has violated its powers laid down by law.. The judge of the Constitutional Court Aldis Laviņš in his recently published separate opinions to this judgment states: “In acknowledging that the contested norm is incompatible with the first sentence of Article 110 of the Satversme, the Constitutional Court has, first, extended the aim of the contested norm and, second, introduced itself into the sphere of activities of a democratically legitimized legislator.” “However, it is right to decide only the sovereign of Latvia itself – directly or through a parliament - through a state body elected in democratic elections, on the basis of the moral norms and ethical values common to society, as well as general principles of law and other constitutional norms.” ( End of quotations.) Colleagues, Article 64 of the Satversme provides that the right of law belongs to the Saeima, according to the principle of the division of constitutional rights and power, the right of such parliament also implies a positive obligation for the parliament as the primary legislator to respond to situations where the norms and concepts contained in laws are not clear enough and creates conflicting interpretations in society and in the regulations applied on the content of norms and the legislator's true will. In such a case, the legislator is also obliged to make its will as clear and unambiguous as possible in order to avoid any further misunderstandings in the application of the rules. Taking into account all the above, as well as the social reality, that is to say, the general acceptance of the understanding of what is a family in Latvian society, the draft law submitted to marriage as the basis for the formation of a family also mentions the bloodshed and adoption, thus covering families with unmarried parents, single parent families, families where children are brought up by grandparents, and similar situations. Similarly, in order to avoid possibly arbitrary interpretation of the concept of "parents", the draft law highlights in particular the right of the child to grow up in a family based on the mother and father of the woman and man. As I have already pointed out, this does not mean that one parent no longer has a family, but that parents cannot be same-sex persons. If someone feels that the wording of the amendment needs to be improved, then there will be every opportunity to do so by tabling proposals between readings. And in conclusion. Is this the time to talk about this? I agree that there is no shortage of more important issues at present, even in the fight against the consequences of the Comma pandemic. However, we need to understand that in this case, the agenda is determined by the Constitutional Court. It was not the National Association that it was time to issue a judgment in which the concept of the family referred to in Article 110 of the Satversme was translated into the unacceptable sense of the majority of Latvian society, as well as the same-sex partners. There is no need to mix relations that can, of course, exist in life in various forms, with a value enshrined in the Constitution and in the Civil Law - a family that is the basis for a nation's generation. In its judgment of 12 November, the Constitutional Court intervened in the competence of the legislator. If the Saeima accepts this amendment to the Constitution, the judgment of the Constitutional Court will be in conflict with Article 110 of the Satversme and thus will not be enforceable. Colleagues, it is our duty, as legislator, to protect the values contained in the Constitution and to prevent the Constitutional Court from undemocraticly halting the opinion of Latvian society by introducing foreign customs and rights. I call for support for the proposed legislation.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U5	One Member has spoken 'for', one Member has spoken 'no'. Please vote mode! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” submitted by Member Iesalnieks, Dzintara, Jansons, Kola and Indricks to all parliamentary committees, stating that the Legal Commission is the responsible committee! No, 47, no, 25, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law passed on to commissions. The next item is "On own-initiative proposals tabled". Draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 213 collective application “On free meals in kindergartens””. If a Member objects to the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this sitting, please apply. No one's signed up. There is no objection by Members. We will therefore begin to examine the proposed draft decision of the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications - Member Linda Medne.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U6	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima and colleagues! On 3 June 2016, the Saeima received a collective application from 10 213 Latvian citizens “On free meals in kindergartens” and on 22 September 2016 asked the expert cooperation platform “The Centre for Demographic Affairs” to draw up an information report on this issue. Four and a half years have passed, and the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications at its meeting on 6 January this year, in monitoring the progress of the collective application, heard the head of the expert cooperation platform “Demographic Affairs Centre”, which informed that the initiative included in the collective application is still current, although it was pointed out that the situation in many municipalities has improved and that free meals for children is ensured. At the same time, he also pointed out that the problem of food should be tackled by complexes with a reduction of rows on places in kindergartens. The Commission heard the expert and decided to refer the application to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission for further progress. On the basis of the fourth and fifth paragraphs of Section 131.5 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission prepared a draft decision of the Saeima “On the way forward of the 10 213 Latvian citizens’ collective application “On free meals in kindergartens”. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U7	Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 213 collective application for free meals in kindergartens”! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The next item is "Review of draft decisions". The draft decision submitted by Members Viktors Valaiņa, Māra Kučinska, Raimonds Bergmanis, Edgars Tatars, Armands Krauzes, Jānis Dūklavs, Julia Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Alda Gobzems and Evija Papule “On the termination of the Special Administrative Territorial Reform Commission”. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U8	Honorary Head of the sitting! Colleagues! This draft decision. First of all, I still believe that the creation of this commission was a mistake. It was because it was a mistake to show clearly that the Saeima coalition, position, thus excluded from work those Members who are outside the political groups and left it only to coalitions... Well, just in the hands of the political groups. Such Members who are outside the political groups and who have no opportunity to express their views, decide or take part in this committee, I think there is enough in the Saeima. And that makes the existence of such a commission to be carefully weighed. On the other hand, the National Administration and Municipal Commission or any other Commission is, however, in composition, where independent Members are also present and where there is the widest possible diversity of views, which I think is very important in the work of the Commission. This has not happened in this commission. The original and existing purpose of this committee was only to put forward a draft decision, either through such a force of impact, without an extended debate. At the moment, this commission's agenda ( Colleagues, I call on all of you to pay attention!) Of the five draft laws that have been on the commission's agenda, there are only two left! - draft laws that are still at some stage of consideration. I note that one of them is already before the third reading and that the deadline for the submission of proposals has expired. In these circumstances, I think colleagues are absolutely and absolutely clear that there is no need to continue to maintain such a commission in the Saeima. All these questions may be viewed by the commission responsible in essence - whether it is the Commission of State Administration and Local Government or any other commission where laws would be submitted by membership. Now it's up... that this is an artificially created commission that is simply trying to find a job. Of course, there is no problem with their work, but I would like to make some comparisons. If we look at the Saeima in the past, making conceptual decisions and then making binding laws... Well, for example, these amendments due to the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations... that went, there were a very large number of laws, and also in the context of administrative territorial reform there will be many laws that will need to be amended. However, these laws are technical amendments, which can be passed peacefully through the commissions responsible and as technical amendments. This does not require a special commission. We can also see that the Commission for Education, Culture and Science is looking at a draft law amending the model of university governance. The legal commission is getting... The Court of Economic Cases was created. Is that why new commissions were created, colleagues? It was not created, and every part of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Evija Papule, or Alda Gobzems, was ensured. It was not excluded outside, as is currently, for example, Karina Sprūde, who is in the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government. She is, in essence, excluded from deciding on important issues for municipalities, because they are transferred to a special commission, even though there is currently only one important issue, which is the law “Law of the Historical Lands of Latvia”. In my opinion, it would be more appropriate to look at this draft law at the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, which, by its very nature, was also examining it with the involvement of the whole parliament, as it should be normal. Let us stop working on the creation of unnecessary, specially created commissions. If this commission... If the coalition thinks that such commissions are necessary, then name it... remove “Administrative Territorial Reforms”, name the Special Affairs Commission, and group leaders... And then we make an education reform, we drive all the reforms through. The swift result without debate is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U9	We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U10	Yes, colleagues, I, too, as one of the Members who signed this draft decision, believe that we do not need such a commission. As Mr Valaiņa pointed out, it was created artificially, specifically for reform purposes, which we see is already being challenged several times in the Constitutional Court. And we will certainly learn a lot of different details about the quality of this commission's work. If we are talking at the moment about why the commission is necessary, why the commission, as Mr Valaiņš has already pointed out, was created on such unfair terms, with almost one tenth of the Saeima Members being completely excluded from membership of this committee - I am talking about independent Members here - then we see that this commission is, in fact, very much needed at the moment, by a single political force to provide a signature to the past minister who lied as a minister and is now trying to capture in some way possible allowances for himself in order to survive this loss in some way. It is absolutely unacceptable; it has nothing to do with the work of the Saeima; it has nothing to do with legislative needs, because indeed... Yes, as we see, too, the Legal Commission is a lot, a lot, a lot... crowded with many important draft laws, and there are other commissions where the work is going. Also the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, where it is really necessary to hold several sittings... more than two meetings per week to clarify a number of draft laws. The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government as well... In the present case, the Commission is not required solely to maintain the allowances from the work of the Commission. We can... Indeed, we can divide the work of this commission between other commissions, which are very successful in meeting the tasks they have been given. I will also call on my colleagues to reject... i.e. to support this proposal, and in no case retain the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission in the Saeima. We do not need luxury expenditure at a time when we need to make every effort to save resources as well as all the other available forces of the Saeima. So that I call for support for Mr Valaiņa, and I call for support for the elimination of this Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U11	We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U12	Hello! WELCOMES will not take part in the vote on the future of the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission because, even when it was formed, it ensured the structural balance of the members of the ruling coalition with a view to adopting and supporting the administrative territorial reform in a way that is beneficial to the political forces of the directly ruling coalition. Similarly, ensuring that Mr Puce is the head of this committee is able to achieve concrete political objectives. And it is precisely in order for the whole society to see the real goals of the political elite, precisely because Mr. Puce, as the new Head of the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission, will participate as a representative of the Commission in the Constitutional Court, which is starting to look at the demands of local governments regarding the legality of this administrative territorial reform, that society really has the opportunity to see both the hypocrisy and where the budget money goes and what ambitions exist in this political stage, if we talk about the fact that municipal elections are approaching. We will not participate in this farce, we will distance ourselves, just as the vote on administrative territorial reform has distanced itself from what decisions have been taken to ensure the majority of Members of the ruling coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U13	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U14	Dear colleagues, At the beginning of 13. To the parliamentary term, each group delegated its own (Interim: “There is no good sound!” )...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U15	Mr. Tawar, we hear you very badly. Maybe you're too far away from the microphone?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U16	The technical man had to test.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U17	That's it. Better, yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U18	It's better?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U19	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U20	At the beginning of 13. For the work of the Saeima, all political groups delegated their people according to their professional ability in one of the existing Saeima commissions. The absolute majority of political groups nominated their people who have understanding, knowledge or experience in the work of state administration or municipalities, to work in the Commission of State Administration and Local Government. We remember the time when this commission was formed. The Commission's objective, as has already been mentioned by the speakers, was to support the administrative territorial reform driven by a certain political force. The real purpose of this commission was to serve as a voting machine. It really is (not heard) ... The call is now - also in view of the exceptional situation of the community that very large sections of society lack resources, very many members of society have been left without revenue - to save budgetary resources and really support the elimination of this commission, and to look at all future issues within the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, where all the political groups have delegated their members who are eligible (not to be heard). ... So please, colleagues, support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U21	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the termination of the Special Administrative Reform Commission submitted by Mr Valaiņa, Mr Kučinska, Mr Bergmanis, Mr Tatar, Mr Krauze, Mr Dūklava, Mr Stepanenko, Mr Sprūde, Mr Gobzem and Mr Papule! Please vote mode! For - 15, for - 54, for - 1. No decision has been taken. We shall proceed to the examination of the agenda. And a section on the agenda, "Provision of draft legislation". Draft law ‘Amendments to the Chemical Law’. Draft law is declared urgent, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ralph Nemiro. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U22	Dear President, Colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Chemicals”. Four proposals have been received. 1. - the proposal of Mr Plesh, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. A delegation of regulation in the field of greenhouse gases to the Cabinet of Ministers is established. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U23	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U24	2. - Also Mr. Pleis's proposal. It is therefore intended to facilitate the use and reduction of the administrative burden of electronic services by submitting applications and obtaining licences from the State Environment Service. The Commission was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U25	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U26	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Article 5 of the draft law is excluded because the time limits mentioned there have unfortunately already expired. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U27	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U28	4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Provides for the draft law to be supplemented by... Entry into force... stating that the law shall enter into force on the day following its publication. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U29	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U30	So on behalf of the Commission, I am calling for support for the draft law on Amendments to the Chemical Law at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U31	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Chemical Law in the second, final, final reading! Please vote mode! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Colleagues, it's 12.30. It is time for the next break in this sitting. Registration of participants. It was a success. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U32	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! We are continuing our third extraordinary session on 14 January. The final section of the agenda is entitled ‘Reports by the Prime Minister, Ministers and other officials’. ‘ Annual report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Latvia for 2019.’ So we listen to Latvian Ombudsman Juris Jansons. Please, name! I ask Ombudsman Juris Jansons to apply for a debate. Thank you. Please! Name to Ombudsman Juris Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U33	Thank you very much. Dear Members of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! It should be recalled that I already submitted this report - the 2019 report on the work of the Ombudsman - on 4 March 2020. However, in fact, in the context of this crisis, Parliament did not have the opportunity to hear this report more quickly. I would like to emphasise that, in my opinion, human rights issues, in particular the reports on the human rights situation and the findings that come directly from the Ombudsman, should be heard by Parliament immediately as soon as such reports have been made available to Parliament. In view of the fact that such a situation should not be allowed for the 2020 report, there is an opportunity (also, of course, on the basis of the parliamentary roll of order) that, literally, within two or three weeks, there will also be a report on the progress made in 2020 and on the human rights situation in Latvia as a whole. I will call on the Saeima Bureau to convene an extraordinary sitting, because I have been granted this right in the parliamentary order. That's a short introduction. With regard to the 2019 report, my speech, my report, will be very, very laconic, highlighting only the most current areas, the most current problems, the most current topics. 2019 was promising, making serious changes in the country. In autumn 2018, three new parties announced themselves in the newly elected Saeima, promising a number of improvements in the country, taking care of the welfare of Latvian citizens, uncompromising rule of law, reduction of inequality and nation generation. Both party programs and government declarations almost every citizen could find an important promise for themselves; it could be said that nobody and nothing was forgotten. In my view, too, if the government, with the support of Parliament and targeted action, were able to deliver on what it promised, the human rights situation in Latvia during the term of this government would experience an unprecedented rise. In the field of social and economic law, when assessing the possibilities for Latvian citizens to cover expenses related to basic needs - food, clothing, housing, health and education - I indicated to the legislator and the government the lack of a minimum income already for the time being. Without waiting for targeted government action in reducing social exclusion, I applied systematically and successively to the five applications at the Constitutional Court, which has just examined almost all claims and recognised the minimum income levels (i.e. guaranteed minimum income, state social security benefits, poverty, minimum age pension) as being incompatible with the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia. In order to ensure fair remuneration for health care workers, I appeal to the legislator, inviting to achieve that the Law on the State Budget for 2020 provides for funding in line with the commitment of Members to the extent required by the Law on the Financing of Health Care. In the absence of support in this topic, I was forced to refer to the Constitutional Court. In today's situation, it is more acute than ever that the healthcare sector has been weakened for years, including at the expense of the most valuable component of it, namely human resources. Unfortunately, what Ilze Ortveina, the vice-president of the Latvian Sisters Association, said at the end of 2019, has fulfilled today: “... may come the day when there will simply be no one treating you.” Today, no one has to prove the lesson of the Covid-19 pandemic - without healthcare workers, our lives not only stop, it ends for many. Honourable Members of the Saeima! I believe that the will and ability of statemen and statewomen to take forward-looking decisions themselves rather than to transfer issues to the Constitutional Court demonstrates the degree of maturity of democracy and politics. Significant improvements were also not visible in the rights of people with disabilities in 2019 when it comes to inclusive education, employment and full inclusion in society. It must be acknowledged that these are not visible last year. From one year on, the situation as regards respect for the right to a fair trial of persons with a spiritual impairment seems unchanged. It is still very often without objective justification that these persons are excluded from the proceedings, as well as the support and understanding provided to them in order to protect their rights. However, it is a pleasure that there is a positive trend: a greater public awareness of their rights. For example, persons with mental disabilities are increasingly appealing to the Ombudsman and other institutions for the protection of their rights. The deinstitutionalisation project launched in previous years aimed at replacing large institutional care centres with community-based social and family-friendly services, despite the considerable co-financing of European funds, has not achieved its objectives in my view. Moreover, there is no targeted, thought-out policy of the responsible Ministry for further deinstitutionalisation (if the project was completed, there will be a need for funding from the state budget). In contrast, there is praise for institutional care from the responsible ministry. Here, too, the Covid-19 crisis has taught us a harsh lesson; the rates of morbidity in care centres would be much lower if targeted social services were provided and people were not forced to live in large institutions. In a number of areas of human rights, the country is still facing many challenges, as the development of society requires a change of practice and regulatory framework. An example of this is the inter-sectoral discussion on the right of individuals to a dignified death in 2019. It is a very sensitive subject, as there is a conflict between the right to life and a respectful life of human rights, as well as the right to self-determination, which falls within the scope of the right to privacy. In essence, this is about values. Similarly, the development of artificial intelligence is also a new challenge in the field of human rights - and it can bring great benefits and risks. It is therefore essential to strike a balance between technological development and the protection of human rights. And here it is for both the state and the private sector to ensure that artificial intelligence develops in accordance with the principles of human rights. In the context of the prevention of human trafficking, it is also necessary to address and discuss the development of a new regulatory framework to establish precise procedures for the recognition of potential victims of human trafficking by public authorities and the communication of this information to the service provider. This issue was topical both in 2019 and is still topical. The right to a fair trial is one of the most fundamental fundamental rights guaranteed by Article 92 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia. Given that Latvian society's confidence in the judicial system is assessed as rather low, ensuring these rights in line with the established human rights standards is very, very important. Overall, the applications received both in 2019 and 2020 (the year 2020 can now also be mentioned) still indicate, in essence, that persons are not sufficiently informed about the possibilities of protecting their rights, and as a result they are often not used at all or are not within the procedural time limits laid down by law. No less important is quality and effective legal assistance, including state-enabled legal aid, in the protection of the rights of individuals. We receive signals from the office that legal aid paid by the State has often been formal or quasi-formal. I would like to draw attention to the fact that things are still coming to my attention, which have long time limits for hearing cases. Although this can no longer be considered as a systemic problem, the improvements are tangible, however, the monitoring of the Presidents of individual courts in complying with the time limits is not sufficient. During the reporting period, it was found in certain cases that the supervision of the prosecutor’s office was also not effective with regard to progress of proceedings within reasonable time limits. As regards enforcement in line with the 21st century concept, three aspects are now clearly identified: public expectations for security; the understanding of a retirement system about the enforcement of meaningful penalties; and the fact that governments, the Saeima, consider themselves to be obstacles to the implementation of the intentions of the regular transposition of the term of office into the construction of a new prison. In 2019, a full return was carried out on the basis of preventive work leading to a large number of institutions where the freedom of persons is already or may be restricted. It has been observed that although it is not enough, the recommendations I made help the authorities to address the problems identified. The year 2020 in turn made it possible to think about new ways of ensuring effective inspections in these authorities if the scope for on-the-spot checks was reduced due to epidemiological safety conditions, but I will mention this already in the 2020 report. On the other hand, in the area of children's rights in general, there were no positive developments; the situation was even worse. The main authority controlling the field - the State Children's Rights Inspectorate - has been unmanageable for a long time. Many well - founded complaints have also been received about orphanage. In particular, in relation to the lack of impartiality and the denial of contact for parents who have ceased to have custody rights and who have children placed in a foster family. If, in the view of the orphan court, there are cases specified in the law where the orphan court may decide on restriction of contact, the decision must be expressed in writing and the person may appeal against it to the court in accordance with the procedure laid down by the law. However, it is common practice to limit contact or even deny contact without decision - orally declaring that children cannot meet. Unfortunately, it must also be concluded that educational institutions still do not report to the municipality, in particular to the social service, on child-to-child violence at school. Even parents who are the main ones responsible for bringing up their children are not reported. A development-friendly environment - and this must undoubtedly be an educational institution - must be free from violence. Until then, there is still a long way to go, because both the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and among the countries of the European Union Latvia is a strong leader in terms of mutual ridicule and violence among pupils in the school environment, as demonstrated by the latest international impact study of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. It is also still difficult to comply with a court ruling laying down the procedures for the implementation of the contact. If the parent to whom the child lives does not want the other parent’s contact with the child, the court decision is practically impossible. Such a situation cannot be allowed in the legal state, as the court, when resolving the dispute, has assessed the interests of the child and decided in favour of the child's interests. In addition, it is well-known that it is in the child’s best interest to involve both parents in the child’s life unless it is proven otherwise. In 2019, the verification case on state and municipal support for young people after reaching adulthood and after the end of extra-family care was concluded. Weaknesses in the legislation and its application were identified. The Ministry of Welfare was invited to review the legal framework, to increase the minimum levels of benefits; all municipalities were invited to review the level of support and services provided for in their binding rules. Some municipalities, such as Liepaja City, reviewed the benefits for young people and other forms of assistance and increased them. However, most local government recommendations did not take into account and formally replied that social guarantees for young people are provided in accordance with regulatory enactments. In 2018, adoption of children under the care of the non-family to foreign countries was significantly restricted, with the aim of promoting adoption of children from institutions and limiting foreign adoption from foster families. It was found that, by applying the new adoption procedure, orphan courts sought solutions to ensure that children were adopted abroad also from foster families before they were adopted into a childcare facility. In my view, the issue of the adoption of children abroad is an area that must be decided on by you - the Saeima. Public adoption policies should be sustainable and predictable. Therefore, at the end of 2019, I addressed the Saeima Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, calling for a uniform and clearly applicable regulatory framework on adoption abroad. The legislator should make political decisions as to whether children from Latvia are transferred to adoption abroad. If adoption of children abroad is recognised, the laws and regulations must lay down clear criteria in which cases it may be allowed. It should be stressed that the previously detected violations of children's rights in the non-family care system coincide with the audit report of the State Audit Office of 2019 “Abandoned Childhood. Every child has the right to grow up in the family’. This demonstrates the need for reform of the legal nihilism and child rights protection system. I believe that the current model of parental court subordination has not proven its effectiveness. And that must change! There was also clear evidence of the inefficient supervision of the work of orphan courts of the State Inspectorate for the Protection of the Rights of the Child and of the inefficient supervision of social service providers of the Ministry of Welfare. For a long time now, we have been living in the new reality of the Covid-19 crisis, which has brought a series of changes to the daily agenda of citizens, businesses and institutions. 2020 has been a challenge for each of us, so I hope that soon - in the coming month - I will present to you the Ombudsman's report for 2020 and the current developments. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that, despite the Treaty's obligation to protect health, we are the country itself. How honest, conscious and mutually respectful we will be to each other depends also on how successful we as a nation and on what lessons we will be going through this crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U34	Thank the Ombudsman Juris Jansons. Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U35	Hello, colleagues! Let me be honest that in my Member's life, the annual round is linked to the Ombudsman's report. Every year, the Ombudsman presents it to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs and later to the Saeima. I am looking forward to this moment, looking carefully at the changes in the area of human rights, and I think much about possible changes at both legislative and political level. In the pandemic year, we have been left with the Ombudsman's report. I would like to talk about 2020, but the 2019 report must be examined very carefully, and we are finally doing so today. This report is 126 pages long, it deals with a great many topics, but I would like to emphasise two in particular. Firstly, preventing trafficking in human beings. This is a very complex but important topic. In autumn 2018, together with my colleagues, I held a conference to discuss problems and possible solutions with representatives of different institutions. It is a pleasure that the Ombudsman also considers this to be one of the priority issues. I agree with what he said that the country should establish a new and uniform order to identify and recognise the victims of human trafficking. It is also clear that the state and local authorities should work together to coordinate the various processes to help victims effectively and prevent human trafficking. From the social worker and support society activist to the prosecutor and judge - all the parties involved need knowledge, additional education and also skills, of course. Secondly, the protection of children's rights. This area is no less complex or no less serious, it is even more emotional. Reform of the entire system is needed so that we, as a country, better protect our children... the rights of their children. I agree with the Ombudsman's comment on the need for a judicious reform of the orphan institution. The Saeima has recently worked on children's rights, and following emotional discussions, the majority of Parliamentarians decided to ban the temporary adoption of children abroad. This is a decision which I do not agree with and which I personally could not support because I believe it would be important for politicians, officials and all the other parties involved to act in the best interests of children, who I believe would be able to live in a family environment. Clearly, we still have a lot of work to do in the area of human rights. Latvia has still not ratified the Istanbul Convention. We do not have a framework for partnership, we are only on the way to a truly inclusive society, but it is also important to see positive developments in this area. The most important of these, in my opinion, is people's awareness and education on human rights issues. Here I should like to thank both the many non-governmental organisations for their active activities, the Ombudsman's Office and the national authorities for various information campaigns, and the new generation of politicians, who often update and prioritise human rights issues, and our society as such. Soon, the Saeima will elect an Ombudsman for the next mandate. I would like us to discuss together, when we talk to potential candidates for this very important post, how the capacity of the Ombudsman could be strengthened and helped in this important work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U36	I closed the debate. Does Ombudsman Juris Jansons want to add something else? Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U37	No, thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2182-U38	I thank Ombudsman Juris Jansons for his annual report for 2019. Dear colleagues, Our agenda has been examined. I would also like to inform you of the application made by Members. Members Andrejs Klementyevs, Vitalijs Orlovs, Regina Ločmele, Ivans Ribakovs and Jānis Urbanovičs have submitted a question to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On Covid-19 reduction measures in social care centres”. And we will hand it over to the Prime Minister. Registration of Members' presence. This has been a success. Thank you for today's work. I closed my third extraordinary session on 14 January.
