ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! Let us begin the remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 15 October this year. Dear colleagues, Yesterday we were told that our colleague - politician and diplomat Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš - was suddenly disintegrating from life. Let's pay tribute to his memory with a minute's silence. ( A moment of silence.) Thank you. Dear colleagues, On the agenda of the sitting shall be reports of the Saeima Bureau on the submitted annual draft state budget and related draft laws. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Management of Public Equity Shares and Capital Companies” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U2	Hello, colleagues! The aim of the draft law is to establish a uniform regulation with private sector capital companies regarding the payment of corporate income tax, as well as to supplement the mandate given to the Cabinet of Ministers in the regulation on the determination of dividends, by extending it to other types of private sector companies. It is proposed to amend the title of Article 28, the sixth paragraph of Article 28 of the Law on the Administration of Capital of a Public Person and to supplement the Article with the seventh paragraph. There are draft laws that are needed are draft laws that are very much needed. This one's burning. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U3	Thank you. ‘ Against” has applied to speak to Member Aldis Gobzems. Mr Gobzem, you must also apply electronically. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U4	Hello, Latvian society! Hello, colleagues! What you are now as colleagues who have excluded me before for seven sittings? I would like to say the following: It is, of course, logical that the budget and any accompanying draft law go to the Saeima, the Saeima commissions, and that should be the case. The problem is one another. I am opposed to the system in which any law, any draft law relating to the budget, how the preparation of the budget takes place and how it is dealt with in the Saeima. And I want to explain. I can comment that a real discussion has taken place behind closed doors about any draft budget law, including the draft law on ‘Amendments to the law on the management of shares and companies of a public person’. This year, EUR 527 million has been allocated to the various priority measures and the debate on this has not been visible anywhere. Another particular point is that in 527 million there are both the famous grande and the suspicious round of 50 million for the Ministry of Agriculture to develop its infrastructure... and in that spirit. In reality, all this should have been on the table a month ago, so that the budget would be of high quality when it came to the Saeima's discussion. Even the social partners discussed the budget before the Saeima, and it is, in fact, a disrespectful presentation to the Members of the Saeima, who are essentially just a voting machine, which each year only confirms it. It is also important to stress that in the budget, in fact, neither before nor after... neither the parliamentary commissions have discussed the so-called budget base. It is a priori indisputable, irreparable, completely absurd, especially in times of crisis. Especially in a crisis situation where we will spend 12 billion... almost two billion of the deficit in the budget... for your, dear people, taxpayers' money, for your child's money. We will do it on the show. When the budget reaches the Saeima, it is simply formally, brutally ejected. This is the case from year to year. It is not a qualitative discussion for several weeks, perhaps even for months, both before and after entering the Saeima, because every intelligent person, if he is an intelligent person, with (A sound defect.) ... A hundred and a hundred! - page. It takes at least two weeks to get to know each point in a technical way... to have a qualitative discussion. Of course, if we want the discussion not to be of quality, so that we don't find grand pianos for Levit, where Karin sings, so that we don't find 50 million... Why 50 million for some sort of melution or who is now? Doctors lack money. The medical association complains that the doctors have not been properly paid. The health crisis, but for melution 50 million, as an example. Or Pouce's wife is half a million at a time when 24 thousand large families are given... and in that spirit. There are a lot of their positions, and the media that... The Delphi or TVNET 2.5 or three million simply relaxes because they are a power PR machine that will not criticise the budget in substance. I am therefore opposed to the principles of how the budget reaches the Saeima and how it goes further. These are the principles of a power cartel which has nothing to do with quality preparation of the state budget and quality promotion in the interest of society as a whole... Let's go, let's go, let's go, Thank you for the opportunity... that you have not excluded me from this sitting either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U5	Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Management of Public Equity Shares and Capital Companies” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U6	Colleagues! This draft law sets a reduced rate of value added tax at five per cent for the supply of books and periodicals, thus promoting their diversity and public access, providing for the needs of society's culture, education and awareness. There are draft laws that are Latvian, there are draft laws that are Latvian dictates, and then there are draft laws of national importance. This is it. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U7	Mr. Aldis Gobzems has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U8	Dear people! In all these points, to which I have applied to speak 'no', I will, in fact, repeat several times, so that the section of society that does not understand finally begins to realise that directing the budget to Parliament is just a theatre that has nothing to do with the reality of life and has nothing to do with defending the public interest. That's the main reason... what I've seen not only in the last three years while I've been in the Saeima myself... the fact that neither the social partners, nor the sectors, nor the opposition, respectively, are actually being heard... Where's the opposition! Close the mouth at all times. In fact, there is a formal, bureaucratic process, through which the Bondar Budget Commission is to be ejected more quickly without a qualitative discussion. In other respectively democratic, developed, rich end countries, countries where wealth is much higher than in Latvia, this discussion is much more serious. Of course, there is no doubt that the VAT rate should be reduced not only for books but also for electricity at this time. I think this is an issue that should have been launched at the moment, not just about culture. We're not going to live from culture alone. The big electricity bills are about to start and people will not have to pay. We need to talk about this. We have to talk about why we still have OIC and why pensioners have to pay VAT on electricity... or large families, or something like that. At the same time, as an example, simply as an example. I'll call... So I am looking at the draft budget - Table 5.1, Priority Actions - for additional funding from 2022 to 2024. Ministry of Culture, by the way. Ministry of Culture! ‘ Priority actions’. ‘ Priority actions” - Media Support Fund for operation according to the minutes of the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of 24 September 2021 No. 63 Paragraph 1 paragraph 2.6 million for the media: Delphi, TVNET. About what? Because they're gonna beat Karina? How fantastic! Two billion is again an additional loan! And in addition to this, there is the next column "Structural changes" - one million more 128 thousand to expand the Media Support Fund. Increase. And we're going to discuss here the fact that the books are a little off VAT. As the film “Limousine John’s Night Color” said: “Culture begins from a grandson.” Why am I saying that? Because we need to start not only with the books that would be the highest part of it, but starting from its worst part - the Delphi and the TVNET. And maybe we don't need two billion to borrow extra, nearly two billion, 1.6 billion to borrow extra at this time. This is something that is not being discussed in Parliament. What was actually just reduced... clearly, the speaking time will be reduced when looking at the budget. It's not free to know... It is already clear to everyone why we are working at a distance. Under the arguments of the pandemic, all Members of the Saeima who have been vaccinated are sitting at home again. What's not sitting in the Saeima? What are you afraid of? Vaccinated and afraid to talk about the budget in the Saeima. The reason is just one. Not because of the pandemic, but in order not to have a discussion about the nature of the budget, about how the Latvian state is stolen, giving money to its PR structures to the right and left, not to the Latvian people and Latvian people... not for Latvian citizens to explain in detail how we create our budget, how we spend Latvian taxpayers' money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U9	Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax" to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to Film Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U10	Colleagues! The draft law is designed to change the administrator of foreign film co-financing - from the National Film Centre to the Investment and Development Agency of Latvia. Co-financing of the state budget for the admission of foreign films in Latvia is an important support for ensuring the operation of industry companies and promoting international competitiveness, as well as this programme is a significant mechanism for attracting investments, which allows the Latvian economy to attract financial resources, which could otherwise be directed towards filming in other countries. There are attractive draft laws, there are actually attractive draft laws, and then there are draft laws that show the world. This is a bill to the world. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U11	Mr. Aldis Gobzems has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U12	Yes, dear people, I have nothing against the fact that films are given, the question is only about foreign films. I could not understand that from what Mr Zakatistov said. It is clear that Latvians and Latvians have to make films here in Latvia. Not only here, in Latvia, but our product films, but not about it. And again. We are talking about a formal process - simply eject through, now, some projects, but we are talking about the substance. Let's talk about the substance. I took the budget again. What am I reading there? ‘ Priority actions’... ‘Priority actions’: additional funding from 2022 to 2024. I look, for example, at the Ministry of Economics, where we could get those films straight away - a financial instrument for lending to investment projects with a capital discount - 41 million in 2022. But you're done with an interesting thing, you're done with an interesting thing. Writing... Thus, the following financial instruments are envisaged: ensuring that finance is available for large investment projects for economic recovery following the Covid-19 crisis, supporting large investment projects, the number of brackets, the length of brackets, is three to three! - 41 million. I look forward to and want to know these three successful businessmen, probably the sponsors of Unity or Partisan, who will fall out of its fantastic happiness to learn 13.6 million euros for everyone. Maybe we have to talk about it. Maybe that's 41 million right away... so that there is no general phrase to talk about how we are now... What kind of movie... In fact, how many films we have in Latvia are famous for? One? Two? Five? It's a pity, of course, that's so little. But why so little? Because 41 million will be for three projects - probably the Unity-General, Berg, who is always running through the Unity, and another two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U13	Mr Gobzem, I am reprimanding you on unfounded claims. Colleagues! We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to Film Law” to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U14	We're going on, colleagues. This draft law aims to ensure competitive remuneration for carers in institutions of long-term social care and social rehabilitation. In 2022 and 2023, state aid was envisaged for raising the remuneration of carers employed by long-term social care and social rehabilitation institutions established by municipalities. There are projects that are caring, are draft laws that are generally caring. This is a really demanding bill. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U15	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U16	As with all the previous ones, here too, of course, I do not have the essence... not by nature, but by form, I have no claims against the fact that the draft law is being examined by commissions, but by nature. I simply want to show you, once again, how the debate in Parliament is going on. So Zakaitistov is applying, talking about... ‘deep project’ and so on. People don't understand anything. Well, what's a "careful project"? Let us also talk about social assistance in essence. Just a comparative example. So what I'm reading is, so the companies... State aid to provide social support, such as grants, to students from large families. So social aid: EUR 24 315 is planned next year. This is the wealth of support, the huge amount of support. At the same time, Kariņš, who has divided society by fighting the so-called Communion pandemic, allocates half a million extra to the wife of Puce, or Society Integration Fund, to unify this divided society. So the development of a national cohesive and active civil society will be €450 000. It is likely to set up a new office, perhaps once again this office will come up with a brilliant advertising campaign that will have to attract some genius pyars, spend on an advertising campaign that will not produce any results, just as all previous advertising campaigns have not produced any results. The society will continue to be divided, but the social grant for students from multi-child families will be 24 thousand. Phillip Rajevsky, as a pianist... probably he's already there at the Parish, at the Viņķele, where he was put... of that half a million, the Pouce Fund will be. Or at least... Or at least the Potch family will at last have the means to pay the parking lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U17	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law on social services and social assistance to the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes), which states that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social Affairs and Labour! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 63, against - 1, refrains. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U18	We're going on, colleagues. The aim of this draft law is to promote efficiency and quality of performance of officials and employees of state and municipal institutions, by improving the competitiveness of remuneration, by setting monthly target level in public administration corresponding to 80 per cent of the average wage paid in the private sector, as well as by changing the proportion between the fixed and variable wage and introducing other modern wage solutions. In addition, the remuneration system provided for in the draft law in state and municipal institutions should be implemented within the existing budget without attracting additional funding. At the same time, the remuneration of senior state officials has been clarified, taking into account the balance between the branches of power and the principle of hierarchy. There are draft laws that are late, there are draft laws that are long overdue, and then there are draft laws with beard. This is a bill. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U19	Mr. Viktors Valainis has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U20	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, The last remark that draft laws are also with beard will be the right place and very precise term for this draft law. Having been working for several years at the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government Affairs, I have seen various presentations about the complexity of the remuneration system in public administration, and I have been one of those who have spoken more actively about the need for some regulation, a single regulation, and the sooner it will come to the Saeima, the better it will be... the better and faster these amendments are needed to put the remuneration system in order. It's the approach that we take separately, untapped from the system... We are taking and, for example, dealing with the Competition Council, the Financial Intelligence Service or the National Electronic Media Council - that is not right, and I have always intervened in this. But in this case, I would like to say to you, colleagues, that this issue of the remuneration system for public administration posts and this proposed concept cannot be part of the draft budget. It cannot be such a concept, it is essentially a reform, and it also needs to be properly dealt with as a reform, not as a matter of urgency - in two readings - as a draft budget package. That, in my opinion, is the most important thing that needs to be taken into account here. If we look at this composition, which is included inside, then, colleagues, I would like to pay particular attention to the section relating to officials. There are, of course, a whole series of posts, for which it is absolutely certain (and I also support it) that salaries should be increased, taking into account their work they do and their work... the results achieved. But if we look at what Mr Zakatistov said, and if we look at how the whole of this draft law has been presented, it is presented with the words "the coefficients are being specified at the same time". Colleagues, the whole of this bill is an expression of such a peculiar attitude by the government towards members of the Saeima, in essence misleading members of the Saeima, showing them that in one part of the budget... it's not at all affected; in the second part, we're just specifying the coefficients. Colleagues, clarification of coefficients by nature means an increase in wages. In this case, it must be said, as is the case, colleagues: if we look at the government and the Members of the Saeima, then during this period, at this time, when there are indeed huge challenges with regard to electricity prices, heat prices and indeed the crisis in the country that is currently going on, I have the question: is the government not currently taking a glaringly shameful decision to propose such a decision? Together with the sectors that, by their very nature, deserve an increase in wages, the government has brought us a uniform system of remuneration, including itself. This government, by its very nature, had one task it undertook to do - in the autumn, 70 percent of vaccinees... basically with all instruments - unlimited financial resources, vaccines. Instead, today we are where we are, yesterday you have listened to this debate. As a result, the government comes to the Saeima with a clear shameless offer to increase salaries - to the Prime Minister by 42 per cent, ministers by 33 per cent - by exclaiming it together with all the rest of the... with what is really needed, both in the budget, where there are many good things mentioned, and in this draft law, many good things are mentioned, which really need to be supported now. In my opinion, this government's attitude that the government itself has put itself in this place is wrong and not to be supported. All this bill had to be seen separately, assessing its substance, going through details, how sustainable it is and how long it is... that after a year or two it does not need to be changed again. At present, such a serious case as a single remuneration system offers urgent consideration - in two readings - which, in my opinion, does not comply with any normal principles of good governance, while at the same time immersing in the growth of its remuneration, a substantial increase in its remuneration. The pensions would have been 42 per cent for pensioners. It didn't take time for you, it was 42. I'm sorry. Reject this!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U21	Please call me! We will vote for the transfer of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission of State Administration and Local Government! Please, let's vote! No. - 53, no. - 13, don't. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on International Assistance” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible as well as the Foreign Affairs Commission. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U22	Colleagues! This draft law establishes the functions of the Central Financial and Contracting Agency as an institution ensuring the execution of the functions of the joint contact point and coordinator of development cooperation projects financed by the European Union external action instruments and other foreign international assistance donors, providing support to state and municipal institutions and legal entities of private law in the process of drafting, submitting and administering development cooperation projects. The functions of the Agency shall be carried out by the Central Financial and Contracting Agency. There are draft laws aimed at development, which are draft laws that are existing. This is a developing bill. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U23	Mr. Aldis Gobzems has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U24	Dear people! You just heard the Member Zakaistov say something. Did you understand something from that? How much? Why? What's the reason? Why should we move? In fact, nothing was understood. And now let's talk about the thing. So all those international things - help, like that. I take on budget, watching: 2022, 2023, 2024 - Ministry of Foreign Affairs - Strengthening Latvia's foreign capabilities in the context of growing international challenges and difficult international environment - every year by 2.3 million present, plus. But maybe you shouldn't have pulled your flags off, it wouldn't be so complicated. The diplomat, however, is a little different, Mr. Rinkēvičs. Hardly seven new officials will solve this challenge. Each of these officials has a budget of almost 200 000 for the following year. Seven new officials. To strengthen the capacity of foreign affairs - 200 thousand for each official. Read more - strengthen Latvia's foreign capabilities to ensure quality Latvian national security and defence of economic interests in an increasingly complex, challenging international environment. Look. So - to create new posts, the number - seven, and the other five, each for 80 thousand... To stubs, as the people say. There will be at least one place in business class for Mr. Rinkēvičs. These are the international challenges, the dear people, where they will spend your money on debt of 1.6 billion, which is already being budgeted... This is not what Zakaistov is talking about in some incomprehensible phrases, using some incomprehensible terminology. But we need to talk about the essence. And that is the essence of the Cabinet of Ministers Protocol No. 63, paragraph 1, point 2. There you can read it all. That was to be said at this point... for international assistance, for some development and so on. Everything that has happened in our country bad internationally, all the business collapse, everything that has happened bad to us in medicine, has happened “due to” Rinkēvičs, his arrogance and the fact that the only thing that interests him is business class, seminars, opera and cabin lions worthy of walking with wine glasses. That is the only thing that our Foreign Minister gives us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U25	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law "Amendments to the Law on International Assistance" to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the commission responsible, as well as to the Foreign Affairs Commission! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U26	Colleagues! Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance will provide for, first, the establishment of the maximum amount of the object of the contribution and, second, the calculation of benefits will take into account the subject of the minimum contributions calculated by the State Social Insurance Agency. From 1 January 2019, the law sets a maximum amount of 62 800 euros of the object of compulsory contributions. The subject of compulsory contributions is calculated for three years according to the formula of the Cabinet of Ministers regulations. At the same time, the maximum amount of compulsory contributions is also the threshold from which solidarity tax is to be paid, as well as the higher rate of personal income tax is applied from this threshold. The ceiling of these contributions is proposed to be increased to EUR 78 100. With effect from 1 July 2021, a minimum set of mandatory contributions has been introduced. The laws and regulations shall not provide for the calculation of state social insurance benefits to take into account the subject of the minimum contributions calculated by the State Social Insurance Agency. These amendments are also necessary to ensure that the calculation of national social security benefits takes into account the subject of minimum contributions. There are draft laws that are jointly and severally more joint and severally. This is an appropriate joint and several bill. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U27	Mr. Aldis Gobzems has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U28	We are once again talking about some kind of social contributions in some general phrases, about solidarity and we do not know anything yet. Let us discuss the substance. Just about the substance. Again, a comparative example of what I want to say. So we will have a budget deficit of 1.6 or almost two billion. On the show we're going to live - a huge show! And now I am reading the budget for next year: the organisation of the Three Seas Initiative Summit in 2022. The three seas are the Baltic Sea, the Adriatic Sea and the Black Sea. I wonder how the Black Sea or the Adriatic Sea will help us out of something. But the most interesting... Here we are talking about solidarity. At the same time, this summit has been set up by three institutions. That drink will be huge. Looking at: Presidential Chancellery - 568 thousand, Ministry of Foreign Affairs - 394 817 euros and Ministry of Economics - 532 500 euros. A total of EUR 495 317 per summit! I will tell you how the Three Seas Initiative Summit was historically formed. That's what one of Vejonis's advisers told me. So Vējonis was not particularly active in foreign policy, as he says, but had to arrange something for another president to come to Latvia and so on. Then he thought he would make the Three Seas Initiative Summit. The measure took place, the measure was promised... modest, promised. The media did not even particularly reflect it and so on. This was the occasion for these people to come here to have some international action. Now, under that three-sea initiative, at the expense of the summit, three state institutions... at a time when they talk about solidarity, about support... there are five euro for pensioners and large families... Almost nothing at all... They will spend one and a half million on a drink called the Three Seas Initiative Summit. Dear people! You know, it's making a budget! The budget is being created for the official and those in power at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is there... Rinkevičs, Ministry of Economics - National Association for Demographics (we will also talk about demographics), and the President of Latvia with all grand pianos... These are the ones that tell you that you must be joint and several today, and spend yourself one and a half million in this drink, the second drink, which is about the Constitutional Court... The centenary. It's... We will talk about this.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U29	Mr. Gobzem, no drinks are planned here. Please call me! We will vote for the transfer of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Annual Accounts and Consolidated Annual Accounts” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U30	Colleagues! The draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Annual Accounts and Consolidated Annual Accounts’ is designed, firstly, to improve the comparability of financial statements information on a global scale, and to improve the standards for the recognition, measurement and presentation of financial statements items in line with the requirements of international accounting standards. Secondly, the draft law was designed to improve the acquisition of research and development statistics, including using the resources of the Electronic Declaration System of the State Revenue Service. Thirdly, the draft law was designed to improve the collection of data on the provision of construction services using the resources of the Electronic Declaration System of the State Revenue Service, which will facilitate the administration of state fees for registration activities in the Register of Construction Communicators. Fourthly, the draft law is designed to harmonise the requirements of the Annual Report and consolidated annual accounts in the Law on and in the Commercial Law. Colleagues, there are laws on predictability, there are drafts that promote predictability. This draft law sets predictability in practice. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U31	Mr. Aldis Gobzems has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U32	The only thing that is predictable in the budget and in any budgetary law is simply abnormal spending. Abnormal spending at the expense of the population. If we look at the annual accounts, what should we remove from those annual accounts? I am taking the budget again, and I am looking at it as a priority measure. Priority, therefore, is more important than other measures: additional funding between 2022 and 2024. The next year, 2022, such an annual report will reflect the celebration of the centenary of the adoption of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia. An important event. So at a time when the Satversme is actually ignored, it will mark the centenary of the adoption of the Satversme. Looking at the budget lines - how much, how much, that will cost. Presidential Chancellery - 155 050 euros, Ministry of Culture - 73 300 euros, Ministry of Justice - 61 thousand euros, Supreme Court - 32 thousand euros, Constitutional Court - 21 860 euros. Together, the celebration of the centenary anniversary of the adoption of the Satversme will cost Latvian taxpayers 343 210 euros. By the way, the price inside included the drawing of two paintings for 180 thousand euros. I guess they'll paint Picasso. Unfortunately, Picasso is dead, it should have been known to the drafters of the budget. So, when I talk about the annual accounts, I think that we had to make a fundamental redraft of this report called the budget before it came to the Saeima at all, because what is being done is the position, the dear people, so that you can understand - the position thinks that the opposition is in such a short time... because the time limit for submitting proposals is usually some four minutes for 34 seconds - for submitting proposals for a thousand pages and examining them at all. They understand and see that no normal, adequate person can read all the thousands of pages, it is impossible to find all the tiles in such a short time. It is only possible to point out some very significant positions, such as this centenary event of the adoption of the Satversme, which I hope will also include black roe, I hope there will also be Dom Pérignon and all the other benefits, as is true of fine gentlemen and grand pianos. Therefore, dear people, it is essential to review how the document in question, which is called the budget, is progressing and to end these Zakatistov-type speeches about the fact that everything will now be better... and so on. We ourselves see how “better” people experience this autumn, this winter that comes – with tears in their eyes... are dismissed. And to you from the parliamentary troupe, someone in the position trying to explain that now there's a real benefit, now it's going to start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U33	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Annual Accounts and Consolidated Annual Accounts", according to which it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For -62, for -1, for -1, for -1. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Competition Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Committee on Budget and Financial Affairs (taxes), stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U34	Colleagues! The draft law is designed to, firstly, strengthen the capacity of the Competition Council as a decision-making body. It is expected that in the future the Board will be composed of the Chairperson of the Board and four members (three members are currently provided for by the Board). The Council... with the capacity building of the institution... in future, it will be necessary to be able to address the complex, fundamental economic issues of the various sectors of the economy. Secondly, the draft law is designed to review the procedures for handling applications and complaints in the Competition Council. When making appropriate amendments, it shall be ensured that the applications are examined by the Board; on the other hand, after the examination of the application, the response given to the applicant shall be drawn up in the form of a decision within the framework of the administrative procedure; on the other hand, the decision taken may be subject to judicial review... in accordance with the procedure laid down. This ensures the applicant’s ability to exercise and protect his rights regarding the full examination of the application and the receipt of a reasoned reply... with the right of appeal against the decision taken by the institution... Appeal before an administrative regional court. There are draft laws on competition, there are draft laws describing competition. This draft law defines the meaning of competition. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U35	Mr. Aldis Gobzems has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U36	I think Zakaitistov has to go as a poet. Urgently. He has little to do with the budget, I think. On competition, speaking. What you, dear people, have just heard - capacity building... That means another... the establishment of a post. Again at your expense, dear people. A little more civil service, a little bigger alder... Meanwhile, you're laid off. That's about what they're moving forward here now. And they say that it is very much needed in a country where the population is declining. In the country, it is now in a position to serve a society of 40 million. The bureaucratic apparatus is increasing from year to year in fact, the population is decreasing. And it's called capacity building, it's dressed in such words in the budget, usually. So that you can open your eyes, those people who watch meinstrime media and tell them how much Karin and all these powers... They're all good. Open your eyes at last, dear people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U37	Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Competition” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible, as well as to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U38	Colleagues! This draft law is designed to reduce employers' labour costs. This means reducing the period of incapacity for work paid by employers by providing that, as of 1 January 2022, the employer pays out of its own resources... pay sickness benefit of not less than 75 per cent of the average earnings for the second and third days of temporary incapacity for work and not less than 80 per cent for the period between the fourth day of incapacity for work and the ninth day of incapacity for work. It is now up to the tenth day of incapacity for work. There are draft laws that are neutral, are acceptable draft laws. This is a business-friendly bill. Please support me!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U39	Mr. Aldis Gobzems has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U40	Because the epiphanies are coming up here. I'm reading the budget. Changes in publications. When comparing the 2022 project with the 2021 plan... Well, about their social insurance in matters of maternity and sickness... it probably affects the demographics in some way as well. Demographic measures, I'm reading in the budget, in 2022... The debtor will have 3.5 million... to be precise, EUR 3 546 800. It is an increase in the provision of demographic events according to the Cabinet of Ministers... Relevant minutes of 24 September. But there is one problem, dear people. What are these measures? What will be done? Re-promotional campaign for some kind of new office again? Who will be responsible? The debtor? What has the debtor done in these three years? Which ministry will be implemented? The Ministry of Economics, which talks about entrepreneurs and the price of electricity is still the most expensive, is not able to cancel the OIC? The Minister of National Association, by the way, is there. From the same obligor's party. Entrepreneurs, by the way, “friends” (footsteps)! Imants Debtr, the father of Latvian demographics, will receive this amount on his account? Or... What's the plan? To steal? Maybe Karin's in a course where he'll spend them 3.5 million... for demographics? What will these be about demographic events? But you're told... Come to the Saeima and so very... In such pillars... Whereas in a poem, the epiphanies tell us how the business community will help. Those people... they have not understood the fact that most of society, most entrepreneurs in Latvia are... There's a rude word here, you can't use it at the Saeima Tribute, even though it's far away. Latvian entrepreneurs move - they leave Latvia. To Estonia, to Lithuania, to Germany, to Sweden, because it is not possible to do business here under this power, which does not support anything, but steals only brutally, and, in addition, on the show... The only prerequisite for the existence of the Kariņš government is the borrowing of 1.6 billion. Dear people! In order for Karin to continue to be a Prime Minister, 1.6 billion of your money will be spent because if there were no such loan, Karin would have been flying last night. Do you understand? The only reason why the video of Karin's grand piano appeared in the public space yesterday is that they have not agreed on one issue for the next elections. Dear people, you are treated so cynically! And then you... will show you “Panorama”, “Delfos” and anywhere else like you, omes, twice a year for 15 Sundays indexes of pensions. And tell me Gobzem is guilty of everything. ‘ Delfi’ and TVNET will talk about additional 2.6 or 3.7 million. That's what happens. We will also talk about giving the village half a million and keeping another half a million in reserve - for example, if that's how the village's voice will really be very crucial to keep the Karina in power. But this is the subject of the next debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U41	Please call me! We will vote for the transfer of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 63, against - 1, refrains. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Committee on Budget and Financial Affairs (taxes), stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U42	Colleagues! The draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Children” defines persons who have the right to receive a Latvian Honorary Family Certificate. The certificate shall not be received by a person who is registered as a debtor of the administration of the Maintenance Guarantee Fund... the register of applicants and debtors. Exceptions to this condition are provided for. For example, if the debtor is a disabled person, a person who does not work for more than six months due to temporary incapacity for work. The draft law also determines the age from which the Latvian Honorary Family Certificate is issued to the child - six years. There are draft laws that commemorate families. There are draft laws that affect families. This bill shows respect for families. Please pass it on to the commissions.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U43	Mr. Aldis Gobzems has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U44	The draft law “develops respect for families”... It's crazy, it's crazy, it's crazy! We still have some Latvians in 30 years... of those sent to Siberia... We haven't been able to bring back because they can't come by themselves, they don't have the means. We haven't been able to offer them a place of residence. What respect can we speak of at all? What kind of confidence can we even talk about? Our “Children of Siberia” live far - there in Russia. Meanwhile... I'm reading the budget. What do I find there? In the Section of the Ministry of Culture... It's about people's self-esteem and everything else... To ensure the functioning of the Secretariat of the Latvian Historical Land Development Council - 97 096 euros. At your expense, dear people, new secretariat - Latvian historical country development council! This is so important in 2022 - the establishment of such a development council and ensuring its functioning? In the meantime, we're talking about something we're not going to have enough money again. It will not be hard for children, it will not be enough for pensioners and it will not be enough for anything else, but it will be enough for a completely meaningless secretariat of 97,000. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U45	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child” to the Committee on Budget and Finance (tax) by stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs! Please, let's vote! No, 64, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Land Register Law” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible as well as to the Legal Commission. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U46	Colleagues! The draft law is designed to review the amount of the Registry fees for activities in land-book cases carried out by district (city) courts, rounded up to a whole number, as well as to set reduced rates of Registry fees for electronically submitted documents. The following rates are set: first, on the opening of a new compartment - 30 euros; second, on the opening of an apartment property compartment - 15 euros; third, on the strengthening of a new right for each person - 15 euros; fourth, on the change of the reinforcement and the recording of the mark - 8 euros; fifth, on the issuance of a land-book certificate - 8 euros; sixth, on the issue of a computer printout certified by a judge's decision - 5 euros. There are almost timely draft laws. And there are timely draft laws. This comes exactly at the right time. Please support sending to commissions.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U47	Thank you. Member Gobzem had also applied to speak. Apparently, Mr. Gobzem doesn't want to... It's late, though. So "no" has applied to speak to Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U48	Mrs. Moore, you already hoped I didn't want to talk, huh? You were just waiting for it? You won't wait. Talking about landbooks - why in Latvia in general, families with children, especially many children's families, have to pay its terrible fees? Registering real estate with us is very, very expensive (comparison). 1.6 billion - the budget deficit, and we are talking about something there, EUR 8 or something like that. Dear people! You have to understand that you are distributing cape from 1.6 billion shows while those in power have a black egg party. Pensioners! You must understand that our country is being watered through the bubble so that they can have a party now, the biggest party in the history of the country, while half of society is desperate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U49	(Sound rupture) ... Transfer of the draft law “Amendments to the Land Book Law” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Legal Commission! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Dear colleagues, ‘ For” had applied... Thank you, so we also see electronically... Member Atis Zakaitistov has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U50	Colleagues! Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”” provides: first of all, increase the pensioner... the amount of the exemption from personal income tax; second, to exempt from the application of personal income tax the medical expenses covered by the employer within the limit, as well as the grants granted within the framework of support programmes for the renovation of residential buildings and energy efficiency improvement; thirdly, to specify the norms related to the exemption of income from the sale of agricultural land from personal income tax; fourthly, to include the norms relating to employees of the micro enterprise. There are draft laws on accidental improvements. There are draft laws on planned improvements. This is a draft law on the merits of improvements. Please support and send it to the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U51	Mr. Aldis Gobzems has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U52	If we're already talking about the fact that we need to support people and that we need to support demographics and we don't know anything yet, then... We're talking here again about dating for pensioners and so on. The first thing that should have been done at the expense of such a huge deficit would have been the release of many children's mothers or large families... We were able to afford that, and there are not so many families of many children. Completely release... Let us say that four children's families are completely, forever, exempt from income tax - this should be talked about, and that would be a big job. What are we talking about? For the fact that twice a year - 15 euros. It does nothing, it will be spent immediately on electricity bills, which most people will not be able to pay right now - this month, next month. Dear pensioners, you don't understand that you're being deceived. You will be given less pension than you will lose in inflation and you will have to pay more bills - electricity bills, gas bills, heat bills. And you will be told how you have increased these inextricable minimums and everything else. All this will be taken away from you, and it will be returned through the utilities. That's how it works this winter. It is harsh, you may not like it; unfortunately “Panorama” will not tell you, “ Delfos” will not write because there will only praise power. Try also you, those who still have their eyes closed and their ears closed - try to open them. Try to see the reality of life. Try to see that Latvia has the worst economic situation in the Baltics. Try to see that young people are coming from Latvia the most. Pensioners! Who will care for you if you don't protect the young? You have almost 600 thousand - more than 500 thousand. You need to start defending the young. You need not only to listen to “Panoram” but not only to listen to your... indexation, but stand for the new ones who will pay you pensions. It's the last time. The latest time to stop believing in Panorama, Delphi and all the rest of Zakaitistov to believe. The last time is up. You have to start doing this. Our country goes to the end of these here all. Look at how things happen in Estonia, how Estonians develop. There's no such restrictions, this people don't fight. Look at Lithuania - the ports work, everything happens. Look at Sweden, Finland... Right here, in Scandinavian countries. You are always told that Latvia will be a Scandinavian-type country. Open your eyes, please, dear pensioners! For our sake, for the sake of our children, do it for the sake of your grandchildren. I understand that you are used to the fact that all the time big, always sorry, how difficult it is, how poor people we are... and so on, but the time has come to speak in direct language, to talk about the real problems. Yes, you may not like the fact that you speak it directly from the parliamentary tribunal, but that is the case. You will now be told that it will increase to a maximum of 500 euros or... To where... in which year, next year or sometime. It doesn't give anything anymore, it doesn't solve anything, it's all over late. Now we already need an uncapped minimum of EUR 800. You are not told that the existing pension system, in fact, at such a small number of citizens and at such a high level of bureaucracy, is not possible for such a large public sector to sustain you. This is only possible if we print money, all the time it takes so that we and our children and our grandchildren have to give it back to become slaves, slaves, and people of the people who serve them. We don't want that. Omes, open your eyes, please. For us, not for yourselves, but for us, open your eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U53	Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! No, 64, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “On the medium-term budgetary framework for 2022, 2023 and 2024” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U54	Colleagues! The draft law ‘On the medium-term budgetary framework for 2022, 2023 and 2024’ is based on macroeconomic projections for this period. These macroeconomic forecasts have been approved by the experts of the Bank of Latvia, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economics, and they show a growing... the trend. Gross domestic product in 2022 is expected to be 34 billion 22 million, increased to 36 billion 115 million in 2023 and 38 billion 33 million in 2024. There are also positive trends in employment. In 2022, it is expected that there will be 899 employees in Latvia and the trend will remain stable in the future, when the number of employees will be over 900... Economists are in complete consensus about the average unemployment rate per year. In particular, unemployment is expected to be 7 percent in 2022, 6.3 percent in 2023 and 5.9 percent in 2024. There are draft laws that define the budget. There are draft laws on understandable budgets. This is a draft law on sustainable budgets. Please support the transfer to the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U55	Mr. Aldis Gobzems has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U56	Dear people, if we're talking here again in a poem... It's all that poetry for sustainable... and all those things... Look at the budget. What is meant by sustainable all this power and all... Is that so? Its sustainability means that it will in addition - there will be a neighbourhood for making what is called the Public Electronic Media Council! - EUR 603 959. Interestingly, what else will they have to do? But... All right, let's assume we need it. But so that the village “does not jump” completely and yet their voice will hold, now security after “the redistributable funding in the annual state budget execution process” (it is still reserved) is 500 thousand – another half a million is reserved... well, so as to keep the neighbourhood in such a secure position in the 'yes' vote and to close the mouth. This is called sustainable budget preparation. But what should I have talked about? The sustainability of the budget had to be discussed in relation to the forecasts of the Bank of Latvia. What is inflation? Why this budget does not include the inflation forecast at least on the level that the Bank of Latvia has forecasted, but twice as small as... almost twice as small? It is quite clear that at the time of printing what is happening - printing, printing, printing, printing, printing... prints without any cover - borrowings, loans, loans are taken... it is absolutely clear that there will be inflation; there is inflation already. The inflation forecast - as low as in the budget - is simply unreasonable, it is inadequate. We're drawing here... tells us about what economic breakthrough we will have. Go to Old Town, Mrs. Mourniece, you're right there, go look. There's an apocalypse. It's cool, it's closed. And you are talking about such an economic breakthrough! It's closed. Riga looks like a trash with stones, not a metropolis. ( Paris, it was a ride in your direction.) That is the sustainability of this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U57	Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2022, 2023 and 2024 to the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) by stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the State Budget 2022” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be handed over to all commissions, stating that the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U58	Colleagues! We have at least 696,8 million reasons to support the draft law on the state budget 2022, because the most important funding supported for priority actions for 2022 is EUR 696,8 million. Of these, EUR 270 million is earmarked for investment. Expenditure on activities that I will define later... EUR 380.5 million is earmarked for them. Covid-19 related expenditure... according to what is actually required... EUR 41 million is available. From expenditure measures... We have €93.8 million earmarked for reducing the tax burden on labour. And this is due to an increase in the non-negotiable minimum. EUR 70.9 million is earmarked for access to healthcare services and investment in oncology facilities. EUR 40.6 million is available to ensure the increase in the remuneration of medical professionals. EUR 20,7 million is available for staff with special service grades for capacity building. An additional EUR 17.5 million is provided for the implementation of the timetable for the increase in the salaries of early school leavers (which also means raising the minimum wage for early school leavers). Additional funds of 10.6 million have been earmarked to increase science-based funding and to finance basic and applied research. There are draft laws on some kind of money. There are draft laws on foreign money. This is a bill on our money. Please support the transfer to the commissions.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U59	Mr. Viktors Valainis has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U60	The very honourable Head of the sitting... Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I could not agree with Mr Zakatistova. This is, however, a bill on foreign money. There are different calculations of how much each Latvian citizen pays, but I will refer to one where it was calculated that it costs EUR 3200 for every Latvian citizen... is a accrued debt which will also have to be repaid in the form of taxes. In this way, the debt is not a brother, so the way we spend the money and the purposes of it should be carefully evaluated. If we look now... In the public space, several politicians had tried to name this budget somehow, but the name for this budget was not. The UK politicians and the finance minister themselves have tried to comment on this budget, but I think the most interesting comment was made by the journalist Ivo Butkevič, who, just looking at this budget, clearly defined that this budget, which has been brought to the Saeima, looks like a handful of portable wood. In my opinion, it is difficult to disagree with Mr Butkevič's view. Indeed, if we look at the size of the budget deficit in this budget, it becomes clear that it will certainly represent a major burden for future governments. There's nothing left for me to agree. If we value this budget in content, we look at what's in it, then... It is absolutely clear that the government has failed to take external circumstances into account when adopting this budget. External conditions related to electricity price increase, heat tariff increase... These are the circumstances that are still to come up. They will only be there, but they are inevitable. We can't do anything there. The bills will increase and will have to be reimbursed in some way. And if we're looking at this budget, then... Looking first at this basic offer, it is clear that the largest victims of this budget will be families with children and a large proportion of seniors. They will be the biggest victims of this budget. First of all, by looking at it. Colleagues! If we look first at the investment chapter - there are also these investments... It is very difficult to find a basis for these investments, a common vision for them. It seems that they are divided by strange principles, not by some common strategy. This is a clear political document that is neither agreed with the social partners... it is only discussed with them. And every thing in this budget shows it. The Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry has very strongly criticised the adoption process, how this budget has come to the Saeima, and they can only agree. There is nothing to suggest that there would be really a problem of substance here. If we look at health care, then... This budget, by its very nature, tells us that the community will end on 1 January. This budget does not respect the increase in hospital costs. This budget does not respect changes in VAT on healthcare, medical services. This budget does not respect the fact that hospital costs will rise, they have no increase... There is no respect for the fact that there will also be an increase in energy prices. It's all left in the hospital's own right. Hospitals themselves will have to find a solution, and this will happen at the expense of patients. The least protected part of the people will suffer the most if it is not changed in the course of this draft budget. Colleagues! It seems clear from this budget that this budget has been prepared sometime in the summer, that this budget does not respect the situation that is currently in the country. This budget is prepared by mutual agreement between political parties, implementing some political priorities, but not respecting the situation that is real, by nature, now in Latvia - what socio-economic situation is. I and my colleagues: we cannot support such a budget because it is poorly prepared. It is prepared to put political parties together some political priorities, but it does not respect the challenges that we have in terms of the nature of the health system and the increase in costs. Even the European Commission has called for its inclusion in national budgets this week. We have not done so, so this budget should be returned to the government. I call you to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-15-PT13-2303-U61	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “On the State Budget 2022” to all commissions, stating that the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is the commission! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 53, against -14, abstaining. Thus, the draft law on the state budget for the following year has been passed on to all commissions. Dear colleagues, We have therefore examined the agenda of the sitting. Members have been registered. I'm closing the sitting.
