ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. Let us begin the sitting of the Saeima on 7 October this year. Dear colleagues, First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. Members Ramona Petraviča, Maris Možvillo, Ralfs Nemiro, Ieva Krapāne and Karina Sprūde are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” (No. 1172 Lp13). ‘ Ramona Petraviča, a Member, has applied to speak about’.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U2	Good morning, President of the House. Dear colleagues, In situations where a worker is ill or has become a contact person and is isolated, the current regulation places almost an intolerant burden on employers, thus creating an initiative to circumvent the epidemiological safety requirements of workers. It is therefore necessary to re-establish the additional aid available, as it was until 30 June this year (as it was proposed by the Ministry of Welfare and as it was in force), by providing conceptually that if a person is suffering from Covid-19 or is in isolation (the grass noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) As a contact person, the sick leave sheet B is issued and during this period the sickness benefit is paid from the first day of the sick leave. The previous support mechanisms were adopted on 12 November last year, when the 14-day cumulative morbidity rate in Latvia was about 208. ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) Now...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U3	I call on you not to continue with such a loud voice or to leave the sitting room of the Saeima if there is a fundamental need for discussion.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U4	At present, this figure is 398 or almost twice as high. And that means that the reasons for granting the original aid are now the same but twice more urgent. Let me give two reasons for introducing this support mechanism. First. The need to reduce the cost burden on employers. In the present situation, where the worker is ill or is isolated, he shall be given sick leave A, which must be covered by the employer. The increasing morbidity points to a large number of such situations, and most often companies that serve large quantities of customers will face this problem. These are catering, entertainment, beauty and sports service providers. I would like to remind you that these are precisely the sectors that have suffered the most from the restrictions caused by the pandemic and, therefore, they often do not have the free resources to absorb all the costs incurred. The previous wave of the pandemic has shown that companies need vital help to overcome the crisis. I therefore call for support for this support mechanism instead of trying to maintain almost insolvent companies with late and costly policies. The government... There is a need to reduce the incentives for employees to go to work during illness or self-insulation. It should be borne in mind that employers very often each worker is overweight and, when issuing disability page A to him, there is an initiative to use spent funds as efficiently as possible and to encourage the employee to work, especially at a time when the worker is identified as a contact person and should be isolated. The employee will often choose to do so in order not to lose his or her job and not to adversely affect his or her salary. This practice is widespread in lower paid jobs, where staff transfers are easy to do and state support mechanisms do not exist. I therefore call for support to be given to the granting of disability page B to workers who have co-morbidity or are identified as contact persons and who are in isolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U5	Thank you. Colleagues, are there any objections to the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda of the sitting? ( Interface: “Yes, yes! ” ) Members have reservations. Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendment to the law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance”” (No. 1122/Lp13) included on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 33, against - 48, refraining from - 1. Draft legislation is not on the agenda of the sitting. Members Ramona Petraviča, Ieva Krapāne, Maris Možvillo, Karina Sprūde and Julija Stepanenko are asked to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” (No. 1173/Lp13). ‘ Ramona Petraviča, a Member, has applied to speak about’.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U6	Colleagues! The protection of workers from the negative consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic - alongside limiting the disease - must be a priority for Parliament and the government. Unfortunately, the existing support mechanisms do not meet any of the criteria. In addition to the granting of disability page B to workers suffering from Covid-19 or in isolation, for whom I mentioned earlier, it is necessary to conceptually establish that a person is given disability page B after each vaccination dose against Covid-19 and, as in the above case, pay the benefit from the first day of disability... two days. Here, there would be two main benefits that I would like to mention. One. The creation of an employee initiative to vaccinate, because there are often heard reasons against vaccination in a public space. One reason for not vaccinating people is that they fear that side effects could occur, which would force the worker to leave his job for a day and stay without income. This is demonstrated by the high response of people to Johnson, since only one dose is needed to receive it. This example illustrates the extent to which people are prevented from receiving the vaccine directly from worrying whether they will be able to raise their income will be able to return to work on the day following receipt of the vaccine. And in this respect, it should be stressed that it affects precisely those who work in low-skilled jobs, because their absence from the workplace may mean dismissal or wage cuts. Because it's in these works that there's an easy change in the frame... easy to change frames. Issue of disability page B after vaccination - this would create a sense of safety for both workers and employers, and would create an initiative for both parties to support vaccination. A second benefit would certainly be to reduce the financial burden on employers in situations where temporary side effects occur when a worker is vaccinated. If there is a fever or pain, of course, the employee cannot go to work, but it is not always possible to choose vaccination on Friday. So I ask you to support and hand over to the parliamentary commission this proposal to make two days' paid page B after vaccination, if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U7	Thank you. Do Members object to the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda of the sitting? ( Interface: “Yes, yes! ” ) Please call us! Vote on the draft law “Amendment to the law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance”” (No. 1173/Lp13) inclusion on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 32, for - 49, for - 1. Draft legislation is not on the agenda of the sitting. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Road tolls Act” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law” to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. And Members Kirštein, Kols, Dzintars, Pūce and Kursīte-Pakule are asking for an amendment to the agenda of the sitting and to exclude paragraph 5 thereof - the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Administrative Territories and Accommodations. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The draft law is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. Let us start by looking at the amended agenda. On the draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” presented by Member Vjačeslava Dombrovskis, Kaspars Ģirgena, Evija Papules, Erika Pucens and Ramona Petraviča be referred to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U8	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Today is a beautiful day, the sun shines out. I guess the day will be quite warm, but the temperature will fall to about two degrees a night. The days are getting shorter, the nights are longer. We need to switch on lighting more often in our apartments in cities, at home... Winter's coming, colleagues! And coming very fast. Electricity consumption is growing, heating is needed, for many it also means gas consumption, certainly - in Riga. As we know, in Riga... our TEC electricity is produced from natural gas. Unfortunately, colleagues, we are seeing an extremely rapid rise in energy prices around the world, and therefore also in Latvia, especially - natural gas and electricity. Natural gas prices on the world markets have recently increased more than five times, electricity prices more than three times. Europe is increasingly talking about the energy crisis. Yesterday at the meeting of the Sustainable Development Commission, the Ministry of Economics showed the terminal tariff - estimates of electricity for the average household (with an average consumption of 200 kilowatts). According to this estimate, colleagues, ultimately, the electricity bill will increase more than twice - more than twice, colleagues! And that will not be all. There's going to be an increase in natural gas bills. Maybe not twice, but yet. For those who use natural gas, i.e. Rigans, heating bills will increase. And if the government cannot control the desire of gas traders to make huge, speculative profits, then this increase could be very large, colleagues. Clearly, such a great increase in energy prices will result in inflation and overall costing of life for all Latvians. What does that mean? According to data from the Central Statistical Office, the average Latvian citizen will spend about eight percent of his budget on energy payments - heating, hot water supply, electricity, gas. If its costs could double very soon, citizens will have to save some other expenditure - the necessary expenditure! - account. This price increase will be particularly severe and painful for pensioners and disadvantaged citizens. Because, for example, pensioners in their budget a month... On average 12 percent of their monthly budget spend on energy bills. So let's count it, colleagues. If the average pension is 410 euros per month, then... on average the pensioner spends around 50 euros... If his energy bills could double, where would the pensioner take them EUR 50? It is clear that the planned pension indexation will unfortunately not cover this, as the maximum amount will be 20-22 euros. What will the pensioner save, colleagues? At the expense of food? At the expense of medication? What are the government's solutions? Yesterday we listened to the Commission on the proposal of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. This proposal is mainly to increase support for so-called protected users, who are families of large children, disadvantaged. Members of the Commission were also apprehensive about the fact that, in the first round, this increase in benefit is not enough to cover growing bills even for low-income and families with children. Our colleague Jānis Dombrava also offered to extend support not only to large families but also to families with children. But in general... Colleagues, the number of protected users, when it comes to households, is 150 thousand, but there are another 500 thousand households, let alone companies that then... Consequently, the Government does not offer any support. Colleagues! Let us ask ourselves: if electricity bills and others double, how right is it, also morally and far-sightedly, the government actually earns by collecting value added tax? Our proposal is to reduce the VAT rate to five per cent for this heating season by 1 July next year. This will at least help to reduce electricity bills by six euros per month. This is the beginning, colleagues, and winter is coming very quickly. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U9	Thank you, thank you. The speaking time is over. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been referred to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Asylum Law” presented by the Member Jānis Dombrava, Raivja Dzintars, Jānis Iesalnieks, Edmunds Teirumnieks and Rihards Kola be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ against’ applied to speak by Ralph Nemiro.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U10	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. The draft law itself provides that persons illegally crossing the state border would be liable, which is already provided for in Article 284 of the Criminal Law. In the event of an illegal crossing of a person's border within a group, Article 284 provides for a maximum penalty of up to two years in prison. Colleagues, for us in Latvia about one prisoner costs EUR 40 per day. If we look at the annexation of the bill, then... Right now... Number of persons irregularly crossing the border... a person who has crossed the border illegally in 2020... There are 377 persons according to the data presented in the claim. If we only count on the person who crossed this year... So the expenses for this moment... That is about €5.5 million. If this figure will, however, rise, then... We can see these costs - increasing and increasing. Colleagues, if we look at the meaning of the norm itself, then... What will be the point if we, while expecting these people in Latvia, strengthen the norm with such a sanction, which is already provided for in the Criminal Law, meet them in the territory of the Republic of Latvia and then put them all in prison? What will happen to the Latvian state budget is not really mentioned in this draft law. Of course, these are expenses. Expenditure likely to rise. The other thing. The law is already actually dealing with this situation. In particular, Article 284 of the Criminal Law already gives law enforcement authorities the opportunity to deal with this issue and to bring the perpetrators to justice. The third thing. Who are those people who illegally cross the border of Latvia? Perhaps they are radicals; perhaps they have already been tried; perhaps they are people who are infected with Covid-19. And these people... we will now, with this draft law, if we hand it over to the Commission, decide whether to place them in prison in Latvia. What's the point? What is the point of putting these people in prison? I believe, colleagues, that this is a way of distracting attention from the cause. And the cause is illegal border crossing. This means that we must strengthen the capacity of the border guard and build this fence at a faster pace. Many officials have gone to the fence to take pictures and then leave. If we look at how long this matter has been topical for the day, nothing is going on at such a fast pace. Therefore, colleagues, I call for this draft law not to be passed on to the Commission. That will be spending the commission's working time - without the result that we would all like to achieve together. It is not the consequences that need to be looked at, but the causes. This draft law does not solve the causes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U11	Mr Janis Dombrava has applied for a speech about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U12	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear Members of the Saeima! Mr Nemiro has already pointed out that the Criminal Law of Latvia currently provides for criminal liability – both prison sentence and fine – for persons trying to enter the territory of our country illegally. This has already been fixed, and this regulation is one of the strongest in Europe. However, there is a problem. Organised crime that organises the migration of migrants across the borders of the countries of the European Union often says: if you fail to succeed and you are caught by a national border guard, seek asylum. Why? Because at that point he is no longer considered to be an irregular border guard but an asylum seeker. This has often been used, for example, by Vietnameses. One Vietnamese citizen has noticed this way several times when arriving in Latvia. He is caught from the State Border Guard of Latvia, he demands asylum and enters “Mucenicai” where he evaluates his application. Of course, documents have been destroyed, and sometimes still fingerprints have been changed... It could be said that there are medical manipulations and it is very difficult for the border guard to identify the individual. They are at the centre of asylum seekers and, as we have now heard, around 100 asylum seekers have been missing since August and have gone to unknown roads. Among these asylum seekers, perhaps all were engineers, doctors, scientists, who were caught up in the “Mucenieki” search for a better life to Germany. But the experience of many Western European countries shows that there are also members of terrorist organisations, war criminals and other persons who will certainly not acquire refugee status or subsidiary status in Latvia under any circumstances. Currently, these persons have the opportunity to get away from the asylum seeker's centre and not to receive appropriate punishment. If we are talking about prison sentences, of course, this is the final means on which the court should decide where to apply. I would remind you that the Criminal Law also provides for a fine as a form of punishment, but I do not really believe that the argument is the cost of prisons for prisoners. After this logic we could release absolutely all Latvian prisoners and in the budget we would save about 100 million. That is not an argument. However, we have to take care of the security of our country, and certain persons involved in illegal activities in violation of the Criminal Law of Latvia must be punished if there is no other way to punish them, because at the moment there is often... the problem that we do not have the opportunity to return to the country of residence of the individual. If we adopt such a law, the most important thing will happen - we will send a very clear signal to all those who are currently organising illegal migration across the border of Latvia, that punishment is inevitable. Any decision we make here in the Saeima... These decisions are being communicated very quickly through social networking platforms for all Iraqi and non-Irish citizens who are trying to move towards Europe. Therefore, I call for the vote in favour to be passed on to the draft law commission so that the commission assesses what would be the best mechanism to thirst out the holes that are currently in Latvian legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U13	Thank you. Colleagues, one Member has spoken 'for', one against. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law on asylum to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, making it a committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. Members Jānis Dombrava, Raivis Dzintars, Jānis Iesalnieks, Edmunds Teirumnieks and Rihards Kols submitted draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Border Guard”. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the draft law be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Jānis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U14	In connection with this law “Amendments to the Law on the State Border Guard” it would therefore be stipulated that the Cabinet of Ministers should develop the procedure for paying compensation to honest state citizens who live in the border area and assist our State Border Guard in the work. At the moment, it is a very unpleasant situation, and it has already been in previous years - people who live in the border area and report to the State Border Guard could count on various forms of repression on the part of organised crime, such as burnt houses or physical execution, or threats if they helped the State Border Guard to detect smuggling routes, how they are transferred across our border... smuggled goods transferred... or who have reported migrants who are being accommodated in individual buildings or who have crossed some particular stage of our country's border. Then it is now planned to pay compensation to those people who have provided useful, valuable information to our State Border Guard, who, I could say, are patriots of our country and take care of our civil security. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U15	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( The interdependencies of the fraction are: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Border Guard” to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 55, for - 11, for - 1. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Next, reports by the Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. Dear colleagues, The commission of mandates, ethics and applications has submitted a draft decision – the own-initiative proposal “On the way forward of the 10 168 Latvian citizens’ collective application “On simplified small business tax regimes””. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? ( Interfaces: “No! ”) ) There are no objections to Members, so the draft decision is put on the agenda of the sitting. Members Ramona Petraviča, Ieva Krapāne, Maris Možvillo, Jūlija Stepanenko, Eriks Pucens, Karina Sprūde, Kaspars Ģirgens, Evija Papule, Lubova Švecova and Ralfs Nemiro have submitted a draft decision – own-initiative proposal “On the task of the Cabinet of Ministers to comply with the Cabinet of Ministers Order No. 66 ‘On an action plan to limit the prevalence of Covid-19 in institutions for long-term social care and social rehabilitation’. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Members have reservations. It is therefore necessary to decide on the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the next sitting. Mrs Petravičs, will you talk about it? ‘ Ramona Petraviča, a Member, has applied to speak about’.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U16	Colleagues! National Covid-19 policies should pay greater attention to care and protection of the most vulnerable groups of society. It should improve the critical situation in social care and rehabilitation institutions in order to avoid the fatal consequences of the Covid-19 crisis. This option represents an increase in remuneration of 100 per cent for employees of long-term social care institutions. The need for this is justified by the fact that the Ministry of Welfare had drawn up an action plan, which was also conceptually supported by the government and provided for a one-hundredth of wage increases for social care workers. However, when looking at the submitted budget, we see that in social care and rehabilitation institutions there is only about 21 per cent of the wage increase foreseen in the action plan, and it is clear that the action plan will not be implemented. In addition, it should be borne in mind that, in the context of the restrictions imposed on workers of long-term care and social rehabilitation institutions after 15 November of this year, there will only be an opportunity to continue working if they are vaccinated or overloaded... As a result, part of the staff of the institutions has decided to terminate their employment relationship and some others have also decided... consider this possibility. It is already difficult to attract employees in social care, nursing homes, especially in Riga and the surrounding area. How can this situation be addressed... because this is not a production that can be stopped for some time if there is a shortage of staff. It is also not possible to perform remote work here, it is necessary to provide care 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The rest of the staff, who will have to work extra loads... This is not a long-term solution. In the short term, it will be possible to do so, but these employees will also burn and leave the job. Thus, an increase in pay could be an incentive for these people to vaccinate, who have not yet decided, and an incentive not to leave work. Taking all of the above into account, I invite you to support an increase in remuneration of 100 per cent for employees of a long-term social care institution and to instruct the Cabinet of Ministers to comply with the order of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 66 ‘On an action plan to limit the prevalence of Covid-19 in institutions for long-term social care and social rehabilitation’. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U17	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the task of the Cabinet of Ministers to comply with the Cabinet Order No. 66 ‘On the inclusion of the action plan to limit the prevalence of Covid-19 in institutions for long-term social care and social rehabilitation’ on the agenda of the next meeting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 34, it's against - 49, it's not. Consequently, the draft decision is not on the agenda for the next sitting. Are there any proposals for transferring this draft decision to one of the parliamentary committees? Please turn on the microphone for Ramon Petravič.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U18	Yes ( Talk to an unchecked microphone.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U19	Once again, the microphone. Please, please, the microphone again.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U20	Please refer the matter to the Social and Labour Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U21	Thank you. So there is a proposal to refer this draft decision to the Social and Labour Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the task of the Cabinet of Ministers to comply with the Cabinet Order No. 66 “On the transmission of the Action Plan to limit the prevalence of Covid–19 in institutions for long-term social care and social rehabilitation” to the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the draft decision has not been referred to the Commission and the draft decision has been rejected. Reports by the Bureau on the granting of leave. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Dear colleagues, the Bureau of the Saeima has received an application from Member Arvil Asheraden requesting unpaid leave between 4 and 8 October of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. On the agenda, under the heading ‘Presentation, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust’. Draft decision “On the dismissal of Gunta Širaka from the position of judge of Vidzeme district court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U22	Dear colleagues, During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 28 September, the draft decision “On the dismissal of Gunta Širaka, a judge of Vidzeme district court from the office of a judge due to his retirement was reviewed”. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I invite Gunta Širaka, a judge of Vidzeme district court, to be released from office of a judge at his own wish from December 29, 2021. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I would like to thank Mrs Širaka for her professional and fair work.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U23	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Dismissal of Gunta Širaka, a judge of Vidzeme district court from the office of a judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the dismissal of the judge Agnese Skulme of Zemgale district court from the position of judge. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U24	During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 28 September, the draft decision “On the dismissal of Agnese Skulme, a judge of Zemgale district court from the office of a judge” was reviewed due to his retirement. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I invite Agnese Skulmi, a judge of Zemgale district court, to be released from office of a judge at his own wish from January 3, 2022. Thank you to the judge for the work he has invested, for the fact that the duties of the judge were carried out in good faith.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U25	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Release of Agnese Skulme, Judge of Zemgale District Court from Judicial post”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the dismissal of the judge of Zemgale district court Lauma Aina Keidena from the position of judge. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U26	During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 28 September, the draft decision “On the dismissal of Lauma Aina Keidena, a judge of Zemgale district court, from the office of a judge” was reviewed due to his retirement. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, on 2 April 2022, the judge of Zemgale district court, Lauma Aina Keidena, was dismissed from office as a judge at his own wish. Thank you for your honest and professional work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U27	Thank you to the rapporteur. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the dismissal of Lauma Aina Keidena, a judge of Zemgale district court from office of a judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Ralfa Nemiro from the Parliamentary Commission for European Affairs. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of the Member Ralfa Nemir from the Parliamentary Commission for European Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Investment Management Companies’, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U28	Hello, colleagues! At the meeting of 30 September this year, the Saeima started, but did not complete, examination and return to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission for technical arrangement of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Investment Administration Companies” (No. 1030/Lp13). Nine proposals have been submitted to the draft law, which were voted and supported by the Saeima at its meeting on 30 September this year... So the first eight proposals. Today, as we continue to examine the draft law, we must vote in favour of 9. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission including 8. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistova, supported by the Saeima in part, as well as the adoption of the law at third, final, reading. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call on you to vote in favour of 9. - a proposal by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission clarifying the reference to a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. This proposal is supported by the Commission. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U29	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U30	Thank you, colleagues. We have therefore examined this draft law. I call on the Saeima to vote in favour of the adoption of the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U31	Please call me! We will vote for the third, final reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Investment Management Companies"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U32	Hello, colleagues! At third reading, we see draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” supported by the Legal Commission (No. 897/Lp13), developed in connection with the development of the e-case platform and the implementation of e-criminal cases in investigative institutions, prosecutor’s office and court. The Legal Commission examined 11 proposals. 1. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is planned to supplement Section 271(3) of the Law provided that the leader of the procedure may take a decision on restrictions of meeting and communication to persons arrested in order to ensure the achievement of the goal of criminal proceedings. Such a decision will be subject to appeal to the investigating judge and the lodging of a complaint will not stop the execution of the decision. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U33	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U34	2. - a editorial proposal from the Legal Commission. The title of the chapter and the article shall specify the terminology by replacing the word ‘in e-criminal matters’ with the words ‘in electronic criminal matters’. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U35	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U36	3. - also a editorial proposal from the Legal Commission. The words ‘in electronic criminal proceedings’ shall be replaced by an abbreviation. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U37	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U38	4. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. The fourth paragraph of Section 317.1 of Law provides that paper documents shall be handed over to the leader of the proceedings and shall be kept until the date of entry into force of the final decision. The process of storage and destruction of the document shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure laid down by the head of the institution. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U39	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U40	5. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. The first paragraph of Section 366 of the Law offers adjustments. The proposal has been partly supported by the Legal Commission and included 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U41	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U42	6. - The legal commission's proposal. It is planned to supplement Section 366(1) of the Law with a new second sentence, stating that during the investigation period until its completion, the investigator shall take a decision with the consent of the supervising prosecutor. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U43	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U44	7. - The legal commission's proposal. The first paragraph of Section 482 of the Law is clarified by stating that the minutes of the hearing are a procedural document recording the progress of the proceedings and the decisions taken at the hearing. The full court hearing shall be recorded by means of sound or sound and images or other technical means. However, if this is not possible, the hearing shall be recorded in writing. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U45	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U46	8 / 8 - a editorial proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. Janis Bordens. Article 634.1 of the Law provides for clarification of time limits. The proposal has been partly supported by the Legal Commission and included in the proposal 9.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U47	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U48	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Paragraph 7 of the seventh paragraph of Article 634.1 is reworded. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U49	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U50	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Provision is made for supplementing the transitional provisions of the law by points 78 and 79 in the specific wording. The proposal has been partly supported by the Legal Commission and included 11. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U51	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U52	11. - The legal commission's proposal. Paragraph 78 of the Transitional Provisions of the Law lays down the time limit for entry into force of a separate chapter, as well as establishes the transitional period and the procedure for implementing the e-case in institutions and courts. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U53	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U54	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act at third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U55	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Act on Operational Activities”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U56	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Sitting viewers and listeners! In the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, we have examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Operational Activities” at second reading. I would remind you that the draft law provides for clarification of the rights of the subject of the operational activity and also the article of the law regarding the conduct of the operational experiment. No proposals have been received by the Commission. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U57	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Operational Activities”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U58	The deadline for the submission of proposals for the third reading is five days - 12 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U59	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 12 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the National Security Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U60	Good morning, very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! At its second reading on 27 September this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Security”. No proposals were submitted and the Commission supported the draft law at second reading. I also call on the Saeima to support this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U61	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on National Security". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U62	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is five days - 12 October this year. ( Milestones.) Please, Mr Latkovsky, you can make proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U63	Colleagues, so everyone has the opportunity to submit proposals by 12 October this year. ( Milestones.) Draft law “Amendments to the Packaging Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U64	Good morning, colleagues! See the draft law “Amendments to the Packaging Act” (No. 1154/Lp13) at first reading. It was developed by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. The purpose of the draft law is to clarify the definition of the deposit fee, the time limit for the refund of the deposit fee and the procedure for registering the packer, to ensure compliance with Directive 94/62/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 December 1994 on packaging and packaging waste. The draft law will enter into force in general terms. Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U65	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Packaging Act"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U66	12 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U67	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 12 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U68	Good afternoon, honourable colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance” (No. 1153/Lp13). The aim of the draft law is to establish social insurance for self-employed persons as from 1 January 2022, while maintaining for self-employed persons the same social insurance regime as that already established as of 1 July 2021. The draft law also does not change the right of self-employed persons to social security. Colleagues, at the outset, I would like to remind you of the arrangements for self-employed workers, which have been in force since 1 July this year. Thus, first, self-employed workers whose income is below the minimum wage per month pay 10 per cent of their actual income to cover pension insurance. Second, self-employed workers whose income reaches or exceeds the minimum wage per month shall pay 31.07 per cent of the amount of the freely selected contribution object not less than the minimum wage per month and 10 per cent of the amount of pension insurance from the difference between the chosen contribution item and the actual income. Thirdly, self-employed persons submit income forecast to the State Revenue Service. Fourthly, self-employed persons who do not provide the SRS income forecast and whose income does not reach the minimum mandatory contribution object shall make minimum compulsory contributions from the difference between the actual income and the minimum contribution object. Fifthly, the State Social Insurance Agency calculates the minimum contribution for self-employed persons on a quarterly basis and informs the State Revenue Service. Sixthly, by 20 March, the State Social Insurance Agency shall calculate the minimum contributions for the self-employed for the previous calendar year and inform the State Revenue Service. It should be noted that self-employed workers earning income from agricultural production will have to take up 10 per cent of their pension insurance once a year, i.e. by 23 January each year. When deciding on changes in taxes, starting from 1 January 2022, representatives of the Ministry of Welfare, the Ministry of Finance and the ministries of relevant sectors, and non-governmental organizations in the negotiations that took place in the course of drafting of the law, agreed that it is not good practice to change the tax regime every six months. In order for the tax to be predictable, social insurance for self-employed workers should be maintained in the same way as it was established on 1 July 2021. Colleagues, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined this bill and has supported it at first reading. I also call on the Saeima to support this at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U69	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U70	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! As you have just heard, the draft law was drawn up on the basis of point 85 of the transitional provisions of the law on State social security. Such a task of the Saeima House was entrusted to the Cabinet of Ministers with the intention of finding solutions for the social protection of self-employed persons, which would prevent criticism, to be expressed in November 2020, when we adopted this year's budget. You remember, at the time of the adoption of the current version of the law. And that was the task of reducing the fiscal burden on the self-employed, which members of the opposition spoke about, partly members of the ruling coalition, as well as the media. I will briefly remind them of their criticisms, their conclusions: the reform of the tax system strikes the self-employed, pushes them into the shadow economy or drives them out of the country, makes them go to emigration. The only beneficiary of the draft law - the beneficiary of the draft law under consideration - is agricultural workers. The draft law provides that self-employed persons with income from agricultural production shall be allowed to calculate 10 per cent of pension insurance for a calendar year and to pay once a year. But it is the only target group to benefit from this draft law. For all other selfemployed workers, the Ministry of Welfare did not find a better solution than to maintain the system of social security measures introduced between 1 July and 31 December of this year, even after 1 January 2022 and for an indefinite period. There are basically two provisions that have already been named by the rapporteur, so I will not repeat them. The self-employed tax calculator, which can be found on the website calculators.lv by applying these rules, demonstrates that the system provides paradoxical results. Gross income below the minimum wage per month may be higher than the net income from gross income above the minimum wage per month. It follows that the lowest gross income has a net income higher than the highest income. This drum is easier to understand in numerical terms. A self-employed person receives a net income of EUR 359 from a gross income of EUR 499, while a net income of EUR 501, i.e. a net income of EUR 276, i.e. less than the net income of the self-employed person receiving a gross income of EUR 499. But what is the social result? Taxpayers with comparable high income and savings may also be among the self-employed. They are sworn notaries, auditors, lawyers, practitioners, including family doctors, pharmacists and veterinarians, but mostly self-employed are individual entrepreneurs who do not have any savings, who spend all their turnover on food, clothing and utilities. These include plumbers, apartment repairers, car makers, bakers, confectioners, photographers, including housekeepers and rehearsers. They are cosmetologists and beauty salon masters who do not smell at all in a pandemic situation. All government policies force them to become cheap paid workers on the labour market, to be part of the competition for jobs. According to the government, self-employment is only the beginning of the journey to the middle business – don't want to climb up, become a paid employee yourself! This capitalism is being brought to us by the government. Let us remember, though, that there are many self - employed and small entrepreneurs who do not even want to become magnets. They want to work independently in their business, live with their small but stable income, provide their family with an average, yet prosperous standard of living, an opportunity to work on working days, while resting on holiday. They do not want to get up, and Nokia's success story does not tempt them, but they create the necessary soil for the engines of large companies and for the entire national economy. When the soil is destroyed, the government destroys trees. The draft law under consideration is a proof of that. It has been developed in a poor quality, narrows business opportunities in the country, thus eliminating the self-employed as a social class and therefore contributing to social inequality. The domestic work assigned to the government has not been carried out. Such a draft law is not supported and will be voted against by the Social Democratic Party. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U71	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U72	Thank you. This bill is a continuation of the so-called tax reform that the government has driven and adopted last year together with the budget package. Given that most of the small business representatives and self-employed, which can also be added to the small business segment... working... This draft law, without taking account of their views and their position, strengthened only one supposedly positive effect, namely social security and protection for entities acting as self-employed workers. But there is one important thing. Some of these people will probably not be allowed to work in their business sector, both this year and probably next year, depending on the epidemiological situation and what decisions the government will take, because, as we know, quite a large part of the self-employed are cosmetologists, hairdressers or photographers who communicate with people and who are active at the heart of the internal market and not in the foreign market segment. Thus, both the Employers' Confederation of Latvia and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Latvia expressed concerns when discussing last year's budget, as well as today's public concern about the situation. Information from the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry also appears in the public space, based on the research they carry out, that entrepreneurs may already intend to dismiss those employees who are partly employed. All this is due to this reform, which is being pursued by amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance. Unfortunately, it must be admitted that along with the package, the budget tax reform, there was also an instrument such as an economic activity account that would cut red tape for small businesses and ensure more efficient work for those working in the small business segment. As we see for the self-employed: this instrument is not being offered to them, is not being discussed and is not being implemented, which we see in this draft law. This in essence reinforces the obligation to make compulsory social security contributions. In essence, it gives really only one category of relief... for whom it is beneficial, that is to say, for agricultural workers, i.e. those who work only for a limited period of time, or during the summer season or when their work is necessary, and possibly do not receive (probably, the key word) a minimum amount of income. Given that it is sufficiently complex and does not offer the business account regime in return, because it only applies to micro-enterprises, and it has not yet entered into force and does not work, then leaving bureaucratic, complex and complex systems in the future... in my eyes are not acceptable and not acceptable. Yes, there must be social guarantees, but they must be after, firstly, the State ceases to impose restrictions on people with regard to employment and, secondly, this applies to situations where the State provides a simple, understandable and applicable instrument against a complex, complex tax system. I will therefore vote against the amendments to this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U73	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U74	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to these specific amendments to the national social insurance law, I can say one thing: if we do not see certain rules, where there is an attempt to go against certain groups, in general, the meaning of the amendments to this law will not fully achieve the objective that would be necessary, because at a time when we listen to what is happening in hospitals with a pandemic, at a time when we read and see every day what is happening to energy, which is happening at electricity prices, at a time when we listen to what is happening in hospitals with a pandemic... Even the 50 percent rise... we read what is happening in “Riga’s heat” with heat tariffs - also almost as much rise... People ask reasonable questions - are we going to work remotely, in person, in combination, in hybrid mode and so on? Will we work at all? Will many people working in the private sector have any income at all? We are not now sending out a clear signal to the public that the state will come to help, that the state will give up all the contentious tax rules, that the state is ready to take a step forward at least at this time - as long as there is both a pandemic crisis and an energy crisis that is in one huge weakness. Colleagues, this is the moment when we have to tell the public clearly and clearly that all the tax changes that this government had as a minimum had to be frozen until some light appears at the end of the tunnel. I therefore clearly join with those colleagues who have made it clear why we cannot vote in favour of these specific amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U75	Thank you. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so? Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U76	Colleagues, on behalf of the Commission, just remind us that yes, there is quite a debate on this issue and this is the first reading. Therefore, for the next reading there will be an opportunity to table proposals to facilitate these arrangements. I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U77	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 53, against - 23, refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U78	The deadline for submitting proposals - 21 October this year by 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U79	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 21 October this year by 5 p.m. Draft Law Amending the Law on Budget and Financial Management, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhena‐Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U80	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Before the second reading, the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission examined the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Budgetary and Financial Management” (No. 1143/Lp13). One proposal was received for the second reading. The proposal was received from Member Māra Možvillo on the number of section 35.2.1 of the Law and the word “20 per cent of the annual gross domestic product per financial year” with “EUR 1 000 000”. The Commission was rejected. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Explain the essence! What is this about?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U81	Let us start a debate. The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U82	Hello, colleagues! Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Several months ago, in a public debate, the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ints Dalder, rehearsed a Member of the European Parliament (Inter-Charter). Robert Zyle, that doesn't fundamentally understand where the money comes from. ( Milestones.) Everyone has the right to his own opinion. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) However, professional knowledge and work experience must always be taken into account. Mr. Dalder is a professional musician who has come to the Ministry of Finance as a result of various political combinations, but Robert Zīle is a professional economist who sometimes plays guitar. If someone asked me a question that I trusted in both of them, I would undoubtedly say that Robert Zyle. My proposal in the relevant law is a matter of trust, so I propose that the figure in Article 35.2.1 of the draft law on budgetary and financial management be replaced with the words "20 per cent of the annual gross domestic product per financial year" with the word " 1 000 000 euro". The country's GDP is currently about 30 billion. Taking this figure into account and applying the existing provision of the law, the Minister of Finance may borrow up to EUR 6 billion on behalf of the State without informing the Saeima and without obtaining the consent of the Members of the Saeima. In my opinion, this is unacceptable, especially now that the public debt is already around 15 billion, perhaps more. I agree with what my colleague Didžas Šmits said: the country needs a Prime Minister who understands how the budget is made, and the revenue chapter is the most important chapter of this document. Unfortunately, the chaotic activities of the Ministry of Administration and Finance, the fragmentation of money on all possible and impossible sides do not create confidence in competence and ability to manage finances responsibly. Restrictions are therefore needed here. The British Prime Minister, Teter, replied in response to the accusations about insufficient funding for one of the sectors: “There is no public money. It's just taxpayers' money." In the case of Latvia, there are taxpayers' money and there are huge loans that will have to be repaid. Mr. Reira and Mr. Karin! We only have the money that our taxpayers can earn. They must be treated with respect. I call on the Saeima to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U83	Name to Member Artus Neminis. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Kaimiņš: "Mr. I want to talk about the procedure!” ) Please turn on the microphone for the Member Artus Kaimiņš - for the procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U84	Hello, honourable Members! Madam President of the Saeima. I would ask the rapporteur to refer to the relevant draft law and the relevant proposal in such a way that Members have an understanding that needs to be voted on in this case. It is not the task of the rapporteur to read the text from a page that, in my opinion, he does not even understand. This is not the first time, Mrs Mourniece, that we are talking about this for this rapporteur.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U85	Thank you. Thank you. We understood Artus's neighbor's point of view.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U86	Please correct this situation.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U87	Thank you. ( Internouncing call.) Colleagues! We have received a Member's opinion on what is going on in the Saeima. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Clementyev: “Watch your house!” ) In this case, the proposer had the opportunity to justify his proposal, which was also the case in the Saeima. So I closed the debate. And on behalf of the Commission... Is that so? Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U88	Consequently, the Commission, having heard the arguments put forward by the parties concerned, did not support the proposal. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Why?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U89	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Mozhville's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 20, it's against - 62, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U90	We have examined all the proposals received. I therefore call for support for the draft law as a whole. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “What in all? This is the second reading!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U91	Please call me! We will vote on the draft law on "Amendment to the Law on Budgetary and Financial Management" at second reading! Please vote mode! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “What’s going on here?” ) Please see the result. It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U92	The deadline for proposals for third reading shall be 5 p.m. on 12 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U93	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 12 October at 5 p.m. Draft law “Amendments to the Administrative Procedure Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U94	At second reading, we look at the draft law “Amendments to the Administrative Procedure Law” supported by the Legal Commission (No. 887/Lp13), which, like the amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law examined today, was designed to implement e-case and to make the regulation of the Administrative Procedure Law applicable to an electronic procedure in the court, which will allow administrative proceedings to become simpler, faster and thus more effective in the court. 46 proposals were examined by the Legal Commission. 1. - a editorial proposal from the Legal Office. The terms used in the law shall be specified. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U95	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U96	2. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. The second sentence of the second paragraph of Article 21 shall be reworded. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U97	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U98	3. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. In addition to Article 21 of the Act, new paragraphs 2.1 and 2.2 are added. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U99	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U100	4. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is stated that the authorisation of the provider of legal aid provided by the State is attested by a assignment issued by the Legal Aid Administration. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U101	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U102	5. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is proposed to supplement the procedure for initiating the case established by law with documents submitted electronically on the basis of the application. The proposal has been partially supported and included in the Legal Commission6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U103	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U104	6. - The legal commission's proposal. Provision shall also be made for the submission of an application by electronic means without a secure electronic signature if the authority ensures that the identity of the natural person has been verified in accordance with the Law on Electronic Identification of Natural Persons. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U105	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U106	7. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It states: ‘If the content of the application is manifestly offensive and challenging, the institution may leave the application without consideration.’ The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U107	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U108	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Expresses the third paragraph of Section 79 of the Law in a new version. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U109	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U110	9. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Expresses the fourth part of the same paragraph of the law in a new version. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U111	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U112	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal commission's proposal. Article 4 of the draft law shall be excluded. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U113	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U114	11. - a editorial proposal from the Legal Office. The terminology used by the law shall be specified. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U115	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U116	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It shall be provided that the oral rejection applied for in the administrative procedure is recorded by technical means. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U117	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U118	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The order in which the person is obliged to be reached shall be specified. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U119	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U120	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The second paragraph of Article 24 of the draft law shall be repealed. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U121	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U122	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal commission's proposal. A new paragraph shall be added to the Article of admissibility of the evidence. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U123	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U124	16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The third sentence of the second paragraph of Article 168 shall be deleted. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U125	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U126	17. - a editorial proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. Janis Bordens. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U127	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U128	18. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Sets out the fourth paragraph of Article 178 in a new version. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U129	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U130	19. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Rewords Article 31 of the draft law in a new version. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U131	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U132	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal by Mr. Janis Bordens, the Minister for Justice of editorial character. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U133	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U134	The next - a whole series - is the proposals of the Legal Commission. Associated with improving procedural issues, increasing the efficiency of legal proceedings and speeding up proceedings. So 21. - The legal commission's proposal. The fourth paragraph of Article 290 shall be deleted. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U135	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U136	22. - The legal commission's proposal. The order in which the appeal is lodged shall be specified. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U137	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U138	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal commission's proposal. The third paragraph of Article 291 shall be deleted. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U139	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U140	24. - The legal commission's proposal. The fourth paragraph of Article 292 shall be clarified. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U141	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U142	25. - a editorial proposal from the Legal Commission. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U143	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U144	26. - The legal commission's proposal. The order in which the appeal shall be set aside shall be specified. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U145	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U146	27. - The legal commission's proposal. The order in which the appeal shall be set aside shall also be specified. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U147	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U148	28. - The legal commission's proposal. Article 296 shall be supplemented by a new paragraph. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U149	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U150	29. - The legal commission's proposal. Clarifying the procedure for refusing to accept appeals. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U151	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U152	30. - The legal commission's proposal. The procedure following the adoption of the appeal shall be completed. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U153	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U154	31. - The legal commission's proposal. The procedure for initiating the appeal proceedings shall be specified. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U155	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U156	32. - The legal commission's proposal. Complements to the accompanying complaint procedure. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U157	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U158	33. - The legal commission's proposal. Complements the procedure for leaving the complaint without progress. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U159	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U160	34. - The legal commission's proposal. It is also complementary to the arrangements for leaving the complaint without progress. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U161	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U162	35. - The legal commission's proposal. Clarifying the actions of the court following the adoption of a related complaint. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U163	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U164	36. - The legal commission's proposal. Specifies the procedure for submitting the cassation complaint. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U165	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U166	37. - The legal commission's proposal. The procedure for submitting the cassation complaint is also specified. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U167	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U168	38. - The legal commission's proposal. The second and fifth paragraphs of Section 331 of the Law shall be repealed. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U169	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U170	39. - The legal commission's proposal. Specifies the procedure for submitting the cassation complaint. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U171	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U172	40. - The legal commission's proposal. Specifies the procedure for leaving the cassation complaint without directing it. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U173	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U174	41. - The legal commission's proposal. It also clarifies the procedure for leaving the cassation complaint without progress. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U175	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U176	42. - The legal commission's proposal. Complements procedure after acceptance of the cassation complaint. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U177	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U178	43. - The legal commission's proposal. Supplements the transitional provisions of the law with a transitional period for the implementation of the e-case. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U179	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U180	44. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. The transitional provisions of the law shall be supplemented. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U181	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U182	45. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. The time limit within which the court may proceed to a hybrid form of the case shall be determined. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U183	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U184	46. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. The deadline for the entry into force of the law shall be 1 December 2021. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U185	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U186	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law amending the Administrative Procedure Act at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U187	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Administrative Procedure Law” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U188	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 28 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U189	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 28 October this year. Dear colleagues, Time to break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Time for notifications. Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U190	Dear Members, honourable Members, I informed you that in five minutes' time, here in the Yellow Hall, a meeting of Members' Cooperation Group with Australia was convened. I would simply remind you that this information relates to the following Members: Bauman, Dombrava, Indriksone, Jušas, Kursite-Pakule, Papaule, Znotiņš and Gunna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U191	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U192	Dear colleagues, I'll ask for a moment's attention! Last weekend, the Saeima basketball team participated in the annual basketball tournament of the Baltic Assembly. We left as champions, we came as vice-champion and hope the next time we do better. (Applause) Impressions: “Uow!” ) But, fellow Members, as we do - as usual (Interior: “Watch!” On behalf of all basketball team, special thanks to our best players. In this tournament they were Reinis Znotiņš and Juris Jušas. Thanks to them and also to the coach. (Applause) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U193	Thank you. And now it's the name of the Secretary of the Saeima to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U194	Hello, colleagues! Not registered: Arvils Asheraden, Jānis Adamsons, Dagmars Beitnere-Le Galla, Aldis Blumbergs, Anda Čakša, Gundars Dauge, Juris Juris Jurāšs, Ieva Krapāne and Romanas Naudiņš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U195	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U196	Dear colleagues, we will continue after the break. On the agenda - draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance", first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Ilmārs Dūritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U197	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. High honourable Members! The Commission for Social Affairs and Labour supported amendments to the Social Services and Social Assistance Law, which intends to provide an opportunity for soldiers and landguards who have returned from international operations to receive social rehabilitation together with their families - children of spouses and minors. I would like to explain that in paragraph 1 of Section 15.1 of the Law it is currently established that the State Social Integration Agency provides social rehabilitation services, including soldiers of the National Armed Forces, landguards, officials of institutions of the Ministry of the Interior with special service grades and civil experts designated in laws and regulations on international assistance. In particular, the law does not currently allow rehabilitation to be carried out together with the family. The purpose of such social rehabilitation shall be to return the social status of soldiers or landguards and their integration into society after returning from international operations. Social rehabilitation lasts 10 days, and the soldier is sent to it within three months of returning from the mission. After the adoption of these amendments, the law will provide that during these 10 days the soldier will have the opportunity to spend rehabilitation with his family. In support of the need for such amendments, the Ministry of Defence referred to a survey in which it concluded that 83 percent of soldiers believe that social rehabilitation after returning from international operations is necessary together with family and family members, because otherwise - the Ministry reported - many of the soldiers simply refuse the possibility of such rehabilitation. It is known that such opportunities are currently being provided, for example, in Estonia, Lithuania and also in Norway. The order in which soldiers and landguards together with their spouses and minors will receive these services will of course be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. The Commission, as I said, supported this draft law. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U198	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on social services and social assistance. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, against and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U199	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading to be set at 15 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U200	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 15 October this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Compulsory Insurance of Civil Liability of Land Vehicle Owners”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Cielēns. Dear colleagues, The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Members Kaspars Ģirgens, Vjačeslav Dombrovska and Evija Papule, which withdraws proposals 2, 3, 4 and 5 submitted for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U201	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! In the budget and financial (tax) commission we examined the draft law “Amendment to the law on compulsory insurance of civil liability of land vehicle owners” at second reading. I shall briefly remind you of the purpose of the draft law. These amendments provide that special-purpose military trailers and trailers transferring special-purpose military equipment will also not require compulsory vehicle insurance. Five proposals were received for the second reading. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This concerns the clarification of the terms used in the Act, which explains that the terms ‘special military equipment’ and ‘special military equipment trailer’ correspond to those used in the Road Traffic Act. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U202	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U203	2. - a proposal from Members Girgen, Dombrovskis and Papule. Undoed.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U204	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U205	Hello, colleagues! I would like to inform you that, a little less than a year ago, we had already discussed the OCTA law and the discussion raised the question of the possibility of buying a policy for one month. The Commission also had a very passionate debate on this issue. One of the arguments was that it would not be beneficial for drivers... and will be costly to introduce such a proposal. However, the reality of life showed something quite different. Even now, any of you who have a vehicle can have your car or other vehicle insured for one month, and that is not expensive at all. These statements, which were before... said to the Commission, is in dispute. The OCTA law is now once again open and we have tabled proposals. I would just like to draw attention to the reasons why these proposals have now been withdrawn. In particular, we agreed within the Commission that we will discuss these proposals with the Ministry of Finance and with insurers and with the applicants within one month. If, however, we do not agree, we will come back, again, these proposals and then we will be discussing them further in both the Commission and the Saeima. But this is the proposal 2... The nature is as follows: Each of you who has a vehicle must have encountered such a question. When you sell this vehicle, this information will automatically go to the Office of Vehicle Insurers of Latvia and any insurer will have access to this information that you are no longer the owner of the vehicle and that therefore the OCTA policy should be terminated. In reality, everything is fine. But who of you has already gone and written the application that day? Most people do not give up or leave this question of politics like self-flow; they basically give it to insurers. I'm already a year ago at the Latvian Vehicle Insurance Bureau... I called on them to improve the function of the insurer's website so that each driver can recover these funds in a simplified way. More than a year has passed, but nothing has improved. And so we also created this proposal that at the moment when this information is to be found, the policy activities of the Latvian Vehicle Insurers' Office are interrupted and these funds are paid into a deposit, and each former driver of this vehicle who had paid for this policy in the past will be able to use these funds further for the purchase of a new policy, or the funds will be returned to the account. So, with this proposal... We're not going to give back insurers, but every citizen who bought this policy will get back that money... has already been paid for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U206	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there something to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U207	No, there is nothing to add on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U208	Thank you. The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U209	3. - a proposal from Members Girgen, Dombrovskis and Papule. It was also withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U210	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U211	The second proposal we put forward also concerns... How often we live... If, for example, another car has caused an accident and entered our vehicle, then the insurer is obliged to cover the losses to the extent... What were they before this accident... However, everything is quite different in reality. Let's imagine, you're buying a new vehicle, you've left the salon, and someone's on the side. You have a damaged car, and the insurer is obliged to restore it to the condition that existed before the accident. But we are realists: it is not possible to restore a new car in the way it was before the accident. Still, the car will have painted parts, chopped, straightened, and you as the owner of the vehicle will certainly be the victim of the vehicle, because you will never sell this vehicle again... as it was before the accident. This proposal therefore provides for a threshold (in this case 30 per cent of the damage... from the original... the damage to which the insurer must offer you an opportunity... offer this car to buy back to the insurer. Consequently, in this case, the car owner will not be the victim of financial matters, but these financial losses will be borne by the insurer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U212	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U213	There is nothing to add.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U214	Thank you. And the proposal has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U215	4. - a proposal from Members Girgen, Dombrovskis and Papule. It was also withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U216	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U217	The third proposal that we tabled concerns wild animals, which very often cause road accidents. As we know, the situation of our roads is not the best in the Baltics at the moment. This is also demonstrated by recent information that Latvia lags behind Lithuania and Estonia for 10 years in terms of road clean-up. Ten years - so big is the difference! But it is not an excuse for not taking care of drivers because they have suffered such accidents with wild animals. At the moment there is only one road in Latvia - it is the Tīniju road - where fences are located to limit these wild animals and reduce the number of accidents associated with them. However, it should be remembered that wild animals are state property. And the state has to take responsibility for... in this case - about your property. This problem is also very topical for people working in agriculture... and people who do not live in cities. They have confirmed that these accidents occur very often, and it would be necessary to provide that OCTA also covers these accidents from the Latvian Vehicle Insurance Bureau Fund. This proposal therefore also provides for payments to be made from the OCTA Fund in the event of collisions with wild animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U218	Thank you. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U219	Nothing can be added to the Commission. The proposal has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U220	Consequently, this proposal has also been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U221	And also 5, lastly, the proposal has been received from Members Ģirgen, Dombrovskis and Papules. And this proposal has also been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U222	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U223	This proposal, 5 is linked to previous proposals on the deadline for implementation. I would just like to inform you: in the Commission, we all agreed that these proposals should go further to the Ministry of Finance and, together with insurers and applicants, let us try to find the best solution, leaving the same basic idea that... referred to in those proposals. Therefore, perhaps within a month, we will certainly come back to these issues again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U224	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U225	Nothing can be added to the Commission. The proposal has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U226	The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U227	As all the proposals have been examined, I ask the Saeima, on behalf of the Commission, to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U228	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the law on compulsory insurance of civil liability of land vehicle owners”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U229	The deadline for the submission of proposals for the third reading shall be three weeks, beginning at 5 p.m. on 28 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U230	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 28 October this year by 5 p.m. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Military Service Law’, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U231	Good afternoon, colleagues! In its meeting of 28 September this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention has discussed the draft law “Amendments to the Military Service Law” (No. 1096/Lp13) before second reading. No proposal was submitted to the second reading of the draft law. And the Commission supported this draft law. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U232	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Military Service Law at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U233	The deadline for the submission of proposals for the third reading is seven days, 14 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U234	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 14 October this year. Draft Act “Amendments to the Road tolls Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U235	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined draft law “Amendments to the Law on Road Use Fees” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 1161/Lp13) before first reading. The draft law is designed to take over Directive 2019/520 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 March 2019. The aim is to ensure the exchange of information on road toll offences between the Member States of the European Union. It is also envisaged to designate a body to carry out the functions of a national contact point. The draft law also provides for the task of the Cabinet of Ministers to develop detailed procedures on information exchange processes.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U236	The Commission has requested that the draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U237	The Commission has requested that the draft law be declared urgent and calls for its support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U238	Mrs Svelova, will you speak on the issue of determining urgency? ‘ Ljubova Švecova, a Member, has applied to speak against’. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Švecova: “The Against” ) Against the urgency? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Švecova: “Yes!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U239	I want to explain why I am opposed to the urgency with regard to the adoption of this draft law. Perhaps those sitting in this Chamber are not interested in the grounds of urgency of the draft law, nor is it the nature or the purpose of the draft law at all. But the purpose of these amendments is to punish our taxpayers, our people who may not have paid any part of the toll abroad. Yes! If we so “love” our taxpayers that we run ahead with any legislative act recommended by the European Union, then, of course, we do not need to go into this draft law or... no other. If, with the introduction of gardening sanctions, we want to collect more money from the public budget from the taxpayers, then, of course, in the accelerated working arrangements, without going into detail and detail, we accept it. But if we want to think, if we want to weigh the legislation and if we really think about the interests of Latvian taxpayers - carriers, drivers - or about the business of road transport as such, then it should not be established with the adoption of penalties. And that is why I am opposed to the urgency to punish Latvian taxpayers abroad. Those who - 'for' - vote 'for'!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U240	Thank you. Colleagues, we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Road toll Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U241	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U242	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Road tolls Act”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U243	The deadline is 5 p.m. on 8 October this year. And the second reading - on 14 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U244	Thank you. So the deadline for the proposals is at 5 p.m. on 8 October this year. Review at the Saeima sitting on 14 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Gatis Zamurs.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U245	Hello, Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! We work with Law No. 1163/Lp13 - Amendments to the Postal Law. The draft law provides for regulation of the supply of subscriptions to press publications and related services... the application of the payment mechanism as from 1 January 2022 and, as appropriate, change the existing mechanism to compensate for the net costs of the universal postal service. On behalf of the Commission, I ask that the draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U246	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U247	On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U248	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U249	The deadline for submitting proposals is 14 October this year. Review of the Saeima sitting - 21 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U250	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 14 October this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 21 October this year. The next item is "Review of communications". On administrative punishment of Members of the Saeima. Notice on administrative fines 13. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme or measures coming under this item, and any other expenditure on technical and administrative assistance not involving public authority tasks outsourced by the Member of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications Arthur Rubik.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U251	Hello, colleagues! Communication concerning the administrative penalty for Members between 6 April 2021 and 31 August 2021. On the basis of point 5 of the first paragraph of Article 179 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications shall provide information on administratively punished Members according to the Penalty Register data for the period from 6 April 2021 to 31 August 2021. Within the stated period of time, the following are called under the administrative responsibility: Aigars Bikše. On 31 July 2021, a decision was taken in accordance with Section 71, Paragraph 1 of the Road Traffic Law (on the use of a vehicle in road traffic for which no national roadworthiness test has been carried out within the prescribed period). A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 18 August 2021. Mārtiņš Bondars. On June 30, 2021, a decision was taken on the violation in accordance with Section 52, second paragraph of the Road Traffic Law (for driving in the relevant direction, if no green arrow signal is lit in the additional section of the traffic lights). A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 17 July 2021. On June 30, 2021, a decision was taken on the violation under Section 61, second paragraph, paragraph 2 of the Road Traffic Law (for access to the railway level crossing if the traffic lights are illuminated). A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 17 July 2021. Janina Yalinsky. On 5 May 2021, the Patrol Police Division of the State Police Administration of Latgale Region adopted a decision on an infringement under Section 74, first paragraph of the Road Traffic Law (on failure to pass a road to vehicle drivers). A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 21 May 2021. Leva Krapane. On 4 November 2020, the insolvency control service adopted a decision on the violation committed in accordance with Article 166.36 of the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia (on violation of the provisions of insolvency proceedings or legal protection proceedings if committed by a person involved in insolvency proceedings or legal protection proceedings). A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 20 May 2021. Linda Medne. On 13 April 2021, the Second Division of the Third Administration of the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau adopted a decision on the violation committed in accordance with Section 32(4) of the Law “On the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of Public Officials” (on the violation of restrictions and prohibitions imposed on state officials by this Law, as well as on the performance of functions of the state official in a conflict of interest situation). A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 18 June 2021. On 12 May 2021, in the part of the administration of data of state officials of the State Revenue Authority, a decision was taken on an infringement under Section 32, second paragraph of the Law “On Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of State Officials” (on the indication of false information in the declaration of a state official regarding the property, transactions, financial instruments, debts, loans, cash and non-cash savings or other income of a state official that exceeds 20 minimum monthly salaries or on the failure to submit a declaration of a state official on the warning of the state institution that is entitled to request the submission of such a declaration). A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 29 May 2021. Ralph didn't die. On 9 April 2021, the Road Police Battalion of the Patrol Police Administration of the State Police Administration of Riga Region adopted a decision on an infringement under Section 55(8) of the Road Traffic Law (on exceeding the permitted driving speed from 21 kilometres per hour to 30 kilometres per hour if it was done in a place marked with the road sign 519 or 555. A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 28 April 2021. Eric Pucken. On 8 June 2021, the Group of Authorisations of the Order Police Office of the State Police Office of Kurzeme Region adopted a decision on an infringement under Section 98, third paragraph, of the Arms Movement Act (for violation of the rules of the ammunition or ammunition of a firearm, the acoustic weapon, the essential components of a large energy pneumatic weapon, the firearm, the silencer or the firearm or the component of a firearm (the acoustic weapon) by a person holding the relevant weapons authorisation). ( Milestones.) A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 3 July 2021. Andris Skride. On 24 March 2021, in the part of the administration of data of state officials of the State Revenue Service’s Tax Administration, a decision was taken on an infringement in accordance with Section 32, second paragraph of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of State Officials (for the indication of false information in the declaration of a state official regarding the property, transactions, financial instruments, debts, loans, cash and non-cash provisions or other income of a state official that exceeds 20 minimum monthly salaries or for failure to submit a declaration of a state official on the warning of the state institution that is entitled to request the submission of such a declaration). A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 14 April 2021. The notification does not contain details of the administrative offences of the Members of the Saeima which have been sanctioned in accordance with Chapter 19 of the Administrative Liability Act, ‘Specialities of Administrative Violations Procedure in Certain Categories of Cases’. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U252	Dear colleagues, We have heard the announcement. Next on the agenda - consideration of Members' requests and the opinion of the Petitions Commission. Member Viktors Valaiņa, Armands Krauze, Edgars Tatars, Ulds Augulis, Māra Kučinskas, Jānis Dūklavs, Jānis Vacāns, Janīna Jalinska, Raimonds Bergmanis, Gundars Dauges’ request to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On planned support for the purchase of wasteless vehicles”. On behalf of the Commission, Ivars Puga, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U253	Hello, colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! The Panel examined the request made by Members Viktors Valaiņa, Armands Krauze, Edgars Tatars, Ulda Augulis, Māra Kučinskas, Jānis Dūklavs, Jānis Vacāns, Janīna Jalinska, Raimonds Bergmanis, Gundars Dauges, Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On planned support for the purchase of wasteless vehicles”. Members had questions about the fair and fair distribution of funds allocated to this project between groups of society at various levels of wealth. The Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Arturs Toms Pless, with his answers, convinced the majority of the members of the Commission and, by voting in favour, nine against and one abstention, the request was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U254	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U255	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, That's the request. The Head of the Request Commission rightly said that we drew attention to the way in which these funds are distributed, which are those who, by their nature, receive this aid. I will draw your attention to this: that is EUR 10 million that the government intends to devote to this type of aid. And in these answers, which were submitted to us in writing in this case, not by the Prime Minister, but by the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Mr Plesh, it was clear that they themselves, with this 10 million aid, do not foresee that something will change significantly in the coming years. It could be so figuratively said that we are going to have an advertising campaign - we will give 10 million to people to make it easier for them to afford an electric car. If the cost of electric cars is 25, 30, 40 thousand euros, then a person who can afford to buy such a new car as required by these rules... The level of income should, in my opinion, be quite high. That's good enough! And most likely, a large part of the users of this service... these beneficiaries... Those who could take advantage of this opportunity are likely to be the inhabitants of Riga, Pierīga, who live in private homes around Riga. There it could be convenient and really effective - use this service. But, colleagues, my question: are we so rich at this time that we can look at those examples in Germany or in other European countries where such support is provided? Do you really think a teacher or a doctor or a police officer could afford to... I mean, dreaming... Use this type of aid? I think that the income needed to purchase an electric car is strong, strong above the average. And with this support, we are specifically helping one very, very narrow population - a very narrow population! - which is likely to buy electric cars without any support. And, most probably, this country's campaign - a public relations campaign worth 10 million - is not much... will not change their views on whether or not to purchase such a car. If we look at some other, alternative, solutions... During the Commission meeting, I also mentioned to the Minister my vision of how these resources should be used. And it is very important to understand this, colleagues, that our aim is to reduce emissions, but do we reduce something with this 10 million investment, colleagues? You can call its tons, as much as I'll throw it... is decreasing, but, colleagues, that is a small, small amount, which practically does not change anything in that overall picture. I've been talking to city planners. Urban planners stress that such support is completely unnecessary. On the contrary, we need to think about how to reduce car traffic in the city, so that there are fewer cars in the city, rather than providing support to those who do not need support at all. Give them support to take their petrol-fuelled cars over?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Perhaps this support will be very useful to one of our colleagues, but I think for most of society it will absolutely not give any... no... added value, we will only be able to see how 4.5 thousand euros are being received by someone who may not need it so much. But are there any alternatives? Colleagues, I would like to say that there is. There are alternatives to how we can make such a solution, so that the doctor, the teacher, the policeman can afford and make use of the electric car. If we look at the replies sent by the Minister, then we can see what is planned... The Ministry’s prediction is that the person who buys and uses the electric vehicle will travel about two thousand miles per month (a month!) . If we're looking at alternatives, then... For example, the common cars on the streets of Riga, which are shared cars, drive twice as much a month. One shared machine... According to different estimates, according to various studies, these are approximately 20-25 drivers who switch to such a single shared machine. In theory, we can hope that 20-25 people move... You may even refuse from your private car and switch to this shared machine. If we were to provide support in this case, it would undoubtedly be twice as effective as possible at once, without even thinking about these side effects; it would be two times as effective as what the government is now proposing. I think the government's vision is very short-sighted and does not coincide with how urban planning and urban infrastructure are being built in modern Europe... with what is the green course. A very short-sighted view of how to limit road traffic, how to make people choose more environmentally friendly, more efficient... Colleagues! I think now that we are talking about modern things, this is a very old-fashioned thing. What the government is essentially offering at the moment - it is old: give simply a grant, put some money on the table and do not think in any modern way, do not think any modern solutions. We can see that there are drunk cars on the streets, or sharing machines, but we pretend not to see them; we pretend they don't exist there; we pretend that... That's the way... The contribution that this kind of business brings is even higher than what the government now offers. Colleagues, I think this offer is completely unthinkable and it will be so luxurious... luxury. And in a way, it also represents government spending - that we simply spend, throw that money on the right, left, do not see that simply the same money could be invested for the same purpose, simply changing the beneficiary of the funding and thus doubling the effect achieved. Double, colleagues! This is after today's facts: we could double the effect achieved by investing the same money in a completely different way - shared cars. Lithuania... if you're looking at how to develop this... We see Lithuanian cars in Latvia, which are now entering our Latvian market, because the government may be looking more forward and seeing more benefits from this service, which I think is sufficiently modern. And that's the future, and we can't without... Without the development of such a service, we will not be able to achieve the objectives that we need to achieve. With this government offer... Even the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, in his reply letter, which he has signed and sent to all Members of the Saeima, makes it clear and clear that the benefits will indeed not be great. And the experts in the sector have also acknowledged that there will be no benefit from such an ‘attraction’. Colleagues! I call for this request to be supported. In my opinion, demand is in place. And I invite the members of the government to think about how you spend taxpayers' money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U256	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U257	I would, however, call on my fellow Members to look at this issue from a different perspective. First of all, I would like to say to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Arturs Tom Plētes, that he has managed to attract, find funding to make transport greener in Latvia, so that we at least move towards more environmentally friendly transport in some way. And on the other hand, I have asked the Minister to improve this offer a little and to support not only the purchase of new cars, but also the write-off of old cars, so that those who have served their lives no longer contaminate the environment; so that, when they write-off such a car, this aid is given to citizens who refuse such a car and want to buy either a new bicycle or a new electric bicycle instead, thus changing their habit of moving by car. In my opinion, it is not necessary to criticise, but to look for better solutions for how to use this funding. So I hope the minister... The Minister also promised to try to do everything for him to support this proposal, my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U258	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U259	Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I now have the impression here, listening to the members of the coalition, that two ministers working in different governments... One ministerial representative congratulates the other minister for having somehow received funding that was not available to other ministers. But okay. For us today... happens today many strange things. This is not the weirdest thing. Colleagues! I would like to raise this issue much more broadly, because we are discussing it quite rarely at the Saeima sitting, but we are discussing it quite often in the Sustainable Development Commission. Green course. To help you know: the government has made a commitment to reduce CO2 emissions by two million tonnes by 2030. Two million tons - this, of course, sounds quite so... As you say, more than a ton of time is a lot... I don't care three, ten... What does that mean - two million tonnes? Here's a simple example for you. So if one driver, who drives every day with one car 16 kilometers in every direction, we move from the car to the public car, to the railway or to the wheel, to the tailor or... What else? then it will save two tonnes per year. Thus, to reduce CO2 emissions by two million tonnes by 2030, one million - one million! - driver to move from car to public transport such as trains... to ride a wheel or walk on foot. One million - colleagues, it's like all the inhabitants of Riga and Pierīga... Well, even they all don't have a car, by the way. So it's about how realistic it is. Think of yourself. This can be done in three areas: energy, agriculture or transport. Each of these areas would give about a third of its CO2... But the thing is that it is practically impossible to do this in energy, because our energy - hydropower - does not produce any CO2 emissions, the TEC works on natural gas... Well, not so much. Agriculture... Well, then we need to, say, reforest all the land and give up agriculture. ( Internouncing call.) Are you ready to tell people that? Well, then you can think that is possible in agriculture. So stay transport, colleagues. And in transport, to do this, move one million people from the car to it... Is that so? So the first conclusion, which is absolutely clear, is that those who have signed these commitments... Well, there's a good question: did they even understand under what they signed, and how can it be done? It's in that big picture. On the background of this one million drivers... What it is about in this request - it's two thousand... €10 million to transfer two thousand drivers to electric vehicles. Of course, it's a little bit of that big picture. But, colleagues, even on this detail, colleague Viktors Valainis asks, so to say, a very good and legitimate question: why are those 10 million dedicated to people who can afford to buy an electric car that pays... New... How many? 40 thousand? ( Internouncing call.) Well, and then I opened the parties for Development/About! Website... There is, so to say, “About us”... Our program. And there I read the following: that we are committed... our work plan provides for an evaluation - now with care, colleagues! - to assess the potential impact of all decisions on inequality and not to support those decisions which may deepen it. Tell me, colleagues: if EUR 10 million is given, it is given to those people who can afford to buy a car for EUR 40 thousand, that is the inequality of something... could theoretically prolong... deepen, I'm sorry? I think you can. At that time, it should not have been supported after its evaluation. And here... in addition to that... Mr. Valaiņa's colleague points out quite rightly: if it were to be given, for example, to a sharing platform, then those people who would use it - they would probably not be those people who can afford to buy a car for 40 thousand, would they not? Then the inequalities would be much less, that would be the effect. That's the first. Second. Yes, of course, we take into account the fact that they compete with Lithuanian platforms, with Estonia and so on. The Lithuanian government, so to speak, is much more friendly to its business and understands what this means - to raise the international competitiveness of its business vis-à-vis Latvia. And so on. It would also be a much more logical step... That's why... I have already understood that, yes, demand comes from members of the opposition, but demand is absolutely legitimate. I think even from Development/About! it would be entirely logical - to take action against the party's own programme. This is a obvious mistake: to grant their support to natural persons. I therefore call, colleagues, to say so, for changes to support demand and for them to be directed at 10 million in a different way, without deepening equality. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U260	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U261	Colleagues! In a way, I... for the second time in a ladder so that you may listen more to what we say, and to remind you that this final decision is actually still true... Even not even yet adopted. First aid payments... hasn't even started to give... There are various exhibits, and maybe some part of society - as I have already mentioned, most probably those living in Perry, to whom this could be a very good offer - is really waiting for it. But what Mr. Dombrovskis said just in his speech... precisely about increasing the gap in inequality - this is the most striking example in this respect. And, as I said, colleagues, if we want these really green solutions to be available to everyone... Mr. Butane mentioned... I've heard these stories about electric shock wheels... that they could be supported. No, that's beautiful ideas, isn't it? And indeed, if it were an electric crevice, maybe it could be affordable by a teacher or a policeman, or whatever - those who may have that salary income below the average, who maybe also... internally eager to drive more than a bicycle. Which, too, may want to become environmentally friendly, green, and choose solutions, but which, unfortunately, do not have such a possibility. But what they see - they see is that the government offers ten million redirects to people so that they can really do so in good faith, with a table back to buy these cars, get 4.5 thousand support each for this deal, which would change their leasing payment perhaps for a... I don't know... if it was 350-400 euros, it could change to 325-370 euros. I think it would hardly change much for these people in life. But for those people who cannot afford to pay EUR 400 for this month's payment - for them, unfortunately, this service is far from reality, and they will hardly see it. As I said, if we really... one concrete example with these... if we say that it is important to reduce these emissions, then to reduce emissions it offers if we just replace this to a shared car... even give them an opportunity to participate in this process... It's just that -- once two already... Right away, two times... If we look at such sustainability... to achieve what Mr Dombrovskis said... million... machines, then such a proposal could be reduced... such a proposal theoretically, if people choose to use these shared cars more... One shared machine on the streets of Riga – this means that there are potential 20-25 people who have sat down, have refused their private cars. Any such machine that you see in the streets, no matter what, means that they are potentially 20-25 people who have chosen to make that machine exist there. The business plan, the vision is that 20-25 people should start using this machine. The more such cars, the more interesting the service is, and those cities that understand it (e.g. Berlin, Germany) are getting less and less congestion, people are using it more and more, and that is the reality, colleagues. And remember again... New Unity, remember, it also applies to you! You talk about inequality. Then ask yourself: does it increase or reduce inequality? Everyone of you, fellow Members, can ask yourself this question. Colleagues, I call for this request to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U262	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U263	Colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! I also call for support for this request. I call on you to support one reason: we could... it would be one of the ways we could, as they say, raise the discussion, return to the discussion as we understand the green course. Because such a proposal is very... I mean... This proposal - the distribution of such sums of money between electric cars, as it says, to compensate for the costs - shows their gross distortion... how we see the green course. I will not now talk about the meaning and nature of the green course as a whole, but emphasise that the green course should be implemented in such a way that we are richer than poorer. Such a green course - to promote investment in the economy of other countries, such as Germany, Japan, for example - in my opinion it is not in the interests of the Latvian state to put it mildly; it is not at all green. The purchase of any new car contributes to global pollution. If we wanted to be green, we wouldn't drive cars at all, or use them only as much as is absolutely necessary, and first of all all all that we already have, to such a situation that it is no longer possible to repair them. This is not only a question of buying and investing in the economies of other countries; it is also a question of subsidising the economies of these countries in addition. I will just make a comparison - which is these 10 million if we really put them green in Latvia. These 10 million are about 45 million conifers. 45 million tree plantations, which are the largest sinks of CO2. We could make such a decision. The second decision that we could make is to build, in the future, at least public buildings using wood as public funds and municipal funds; it would be another absorption for CO2. Not just absorption - we would, as we say, invest in our economy. Because I used to... We are now proud of Art Nouveau; we could be proud of the construction of Pardaugava and Latvia's entire wood. Japan will build a skyscraper from a tree. Japan! We were not allowed to build a wooden building above four floors until recently. And the company that exported a multi-storey home to Norway could not build a house in Latvia to show what looks like they built in Norway because we had rules. Let's see what we're doing! We will probably not stop the green course, but at least do so in a way that we lift up our economy and not sink it. That's why this demand... I call for this to be supported. That would be one of the discussions about why we are doing something in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U264	The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U265	Colleagues! I understand that a lot of you... have not seen that white sign with the inscription “Riga” and a pair of red stripes... Because today's talk about all this - shared rides, electric cars, cities. Everything is beautiful, but people are living behind it. And here talk about electric cars and that there could be sharing... Try to surprise them with this. Why isn't this... The restoration of the “car park”? Very simple for a reason. When a person leaves with the most elementary car, the smallest one to the technical inspection must be separated from at least 100 euros. At least! What does that mean? This means that this EUR 100 goes now to the Green Dealers, who use the road without this tax, who use the infrastructure without paying for it. Consequently, those who cannot afford or travel by electric vehicles cannot access electric cars, because they have to pay for this infrastructure. So, colleagues, this is not a simple question. And this question cannot be limited to the city alone. This issue, so to speak, must go all over the country. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U266	The name is Sandy Riekstin.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U267	Hello, colleagues! I will say right away that I do not support this request and that it has nothing to do with what we are all talking about right now. But I mentioned a few things at the commission meeting, too... and I will mention today as well. I, too, regrettably agree that this discount... For let us be honest: the money will not be given to that buyer, and the funding will be given to a certain dealer who will make this car available on the markets. This discount... Why is that exactly what we want to do? I'm personally... If that car costs me three times as much as my existing car, it is unlikely that those four thousand will motivate me to buy it now. When we asked the Minister in the Commission about the practice in Europe, he said: there is on average about this amount, but in Romania there are 10 000 this discount. And then I have a question: that's rhetorical. We are, unfortunately, closer to Romania in many figures. But when we need to give the people a discount - then we look at the average in Europe... This question remained unanswered. It would really be interesting for me to get an answer. Mr. Valaiņš mentioned the fields. Clearly, no electric cars will buy in the countryside right now. That's total stupidity. It is clear that it is aimed at the inhabitants of Riga to reduce these emissions in at least the capital, which... is not wrong. That's why I say I won't support this, but... And here's another point. I... on your own... I've counted this difference to the equivalent of a car, even though it's the equivalent of... Not like that... Well, the crossover, which is currently very common in Latvia... I don't think so, but... Well, there are some. This difference would come back to me in about eight years. Clearly, I won't buy such an electric car. Therefore, I think there are other mechanisms, other things need to be dealt with, and that is what I have betrayed to the Minister as a lifting bag. And another important thing. Even as a member of the Saeima... going to leasing company and trying to buy this new electric car (Dep. A. Neighbours: “You won’t!” )... I guarantee I won't be given it for... with a total of 104,5 thousand. That's why I'm asking the Ministry, I think we're taking a calculator... No, ask me, I have calculations, I'll give them. But I do not support the request, of course, because it does not solve anything. Let's do it!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U268	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U269	Good afternoon, everybody! I am listening to this debate, and I understand that we... the whole of Latvia is in front of one great drama. And I'll explain what the story is about. It makes me feel like déjà vu - similar to what was at the time to all the well-known OIC. ( The utterances are: “Ooo! ” “Yes!” ) What is the story about? I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Thank you very much. Yeah, what's the story about, colleagues? I remember that more than four years ago, when I came up here and talked about OIC’s atmosphere, laughing and laughing, it seemed unwitting to everyone. With what it ended, we all know. Now... what's happening at the moment... Colleagues, I warn you: what is going on now - it will not just be an OIC, it will be a square of the OIC - with its devastating impact on the Latvian economy, on the future of our country as a whole - if we are just as responsible and "competent" to meet these challenges of the green course, as we did with these green energy targets that... The same characters, who are currently pushing this green course through the same "qualification", took place. And just today... What we are discussing today is simply one small instrument that offers to address these green-touch challenges. We can see that this is a completely pointless waste of money. But somebody's gonna have to pay for all this. And we're talking about a little little piece now. On the other hand, the challenges that need to be addressed are perhaps not a hundredfold but a thousand times greater. And imagine what it will mean for the Latvian state, for all Latvian taxpayers, for all consumers, if these “qualifications” are addressed. Colleagues! I think it is important to support this demand today, to call it power here, so that they tell us how they are going to tackle these green-track challenges, these CO2 reductions, if we are drying up such a little bit now... We're ready to get millions and we don't even understand what the return will be. I call on all of us to think about it and to warn you in good time - Latvian society and above all those who are currently in power and who are coming to this issue as indifferent, incompetent and irresponsible as they did with OIC. The consequences will be much, much more serious. I am responsible for my words and have warned you all in due time. Thank you. ( Some Members are applauding.)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U270	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U271	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Who can afford an electric vehicle - a new electric vehicle, one that can travel more than 100 or 200 kilometres? The coalition Member, Mr Riekstin, cannot afford, nor does he give credit. Who can afford, colleagues? ( Intercretion: “Aivars! ” ) Aivars cannot afford or use it at present either. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I (Laughter) Colleagues, what do we want to achieve? We want to actually reduce emissions or to support a very narrow group of very wealthy people to whom it is extraterrestrial? What do we want? We want to reduce emissions in the capital by drawing new cyclos in winter, when congestion is crazy, when people are standing there and building their cars' internal combustion engines, creating additional emissions? Who has calculated this? At a time when it shouldn't have been done... Instead of being planned, structuredly planned and wisely done, people do not begin to hate cycling, but start to use it objectively... At a time when the emergency can't go to your call, because there's congestion on Duntes Street... Colleagues, have you met a car park - a car park... with machines, with which are our citizens, our citizens, moving? Do you know the average age of these cars? Here both representatives of the Ministry of Transport and we have talked a lot about the average age of our fleet. We know with which diesels, with which exhaust systems many people are driving - the beaks are going through the roadworthiness test with repeated turnarounds. What is the average age of this fleet? Many of these cars cost EUR 500, EUR 1000, EUR 2000 - that is, their price peak. What are the emissions? What could a man buy... cars... for this sum that we want to sponsor to someone very, very wealthy? What would be the emissions... This difference... Is that so? In real terms, there would be a lot, a lot, a lot bigger. If we want to help people and reduce emissions, then, colleagues, we really need to help people and really do everything we can to reduce emissions - meaningfully, wisely to reduce emissions. Someone has calculated how much the State Revenue Service... How many households issue permits for the purchase of non-excise diesel for heating? And what are these boilers? And what do we create, what are these emissions actually? That's what we don't count. If we looked at the whole thing as proper hosts - complexes, in general - we would understand that this... emissions... We can invest the auction money in an incomparably more meaningful way in our economy, helping our people. Thus, we will reduce emissions much, much more importantly. Please support this specific request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U272	Name to Member Janis Butan for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U273	Colleagues, I feel like I have entered the Delfi section today. Many different proposals, and everyone knows best how to do it. However, I would call for support to be given to the Minister in this work and, if there are really constructive proposals, I would call for an intermediate call: "Comandum!" ), then call on the minister and the Prime Minister to make constructive proposals on how we can improve this environmentally friendly movement. So I ask you not to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U274	Name to Member Edgar Tavar for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U275	With whom have our ministers now gone on a mission? By the bike, by the feet? (Laughter) Some Members are applauding.) Or maybe with boing? ( Interface: “With an electric vehicle! ” ) With electric vehicle. There are no constructive proposals. We, fellow Members, have repeatedly made a proposal from this very platform, which must be done. One proposal, one proposal. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Papule intersages.) Colleagues, in the previous government I was one of the initiators... together with Minister of Transport Uldi Auguli... We changed the procedure for paying the vehicle's operating tax. You probably remember well - previously it was like: engine power, mass, volume... We changed to CO2 emissions: the more climate friendly... climate: I put the emphasis on the climate... Unfortunately, not always environmental, but climate-friendly... is your transport, the less you pay. If your transport doesn't cause emissions, you don't pay anything. That is the current order. We see this dynamic - the fact that, with the natural development of the industry and with the development of technologies, these prices... These vehicles will become more accessible. People buy more and more every year. Without additional huge subsidies from our taxpayers... And also emissions... and any funding. We stimulate, we have instruments. If we use traffic lanes, public transport lanes, we can enter the city, we can keep this vehicle free of charge in many places. We have a lot of natural incentives, how... People who change a vehicle choose a vehicle that is more environmentally and climate-friendly. The most friendly vehicle is one that we do not buy. Which one we don't buy! If we have a normal bicycle infrastructure, a planned and meaningful, if there is public transport in the city, if there is interurban transport, many people would be prepared to give up the car at all. We have heard many of these comparisons... that the kids... In childhood, boys in particular... each had a poster in the room with his dream car. Today, many young people no longer have such posters, because the car itself is no longer worth it. Human values change, habits change. We will be able to call the vehicle with an application (already many of us use it) or rent - either with the driver or without the driver. Therefore, colleagues, we need to think about how we support the resources that we have... how we support our society, how we can support the people and the economy, not the individual industry and the part of the society that is truly rich, which can afford several tens of thousands or even more than 100,000 new cars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U276	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U277	Yeah, the devil's hiding in detail. Interesting where this time “Development/About!” Did he hide this devil by lobbying 10 million as if he had to buy green electric cars? It is likely that the real beneficiaries of this millions of projects are indeed wealthy people and that "greening" is once again being used only by individual individuals to green up or become digital green. Even the opinions and publications of the conference of experts of the Bank of Latvia, and the discussion that took place yesterday... last night, I apologise to the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes), where the experts of the Bank of Latvia pointed to the absence of a systematic approach to such a project, especially no concern to either the ministries or the majority of Members. It's a pity that it is - that some get overprofit, calling it green thinking. Others gain a good, beautiful and expensive vehicle, but true and real reductions in emission quotas will not be achieved. I will support this request from green farmers, because I believe that it is justified, correct and is intended to address the problem systemically, not to exclude from the context, and to provide over-profits to certain electric motorists through a lobby. Thank you. ( Some Members are applauding.)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U278	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time. ( Insight: “Vjačeslav, don’t hurry! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U279	Now this time... Colleagues, I... Dear colleagues, I was maybe quite gentle last time about that whole green course. We can also say a little bit more. I have already mentioned that our government has made a commitment to reduce CO2 by two million tonnes by 2030. This can be done either by energy (by large - not possible) or by agriculture (by large - not possible). Leave the transport. To the big one, there's no... As I said before, in order to achieve this in transport, one million people need to be reloaded from road wheels to rail... or how. But, you know what's the most interesting thing in this story? We don't have a million cars in the country. None! In the country, the car has more than 600 thousand saloons. According to the projections, there will be perhaps 800 thousand in 2030. There's not even a million cars, colleagues! What did those who ordered their signatures to do? And then the Ministry of Transport says: “Let the ministers work.” Well, then, at the Ministry of Transport - how to get people to change cars to wheels against rail... or how... Is that so? How can people change their old diesel cars to something younger, with less CO2? And even from the Ministry of Transport comes. One official says: “We do not in any way plan any tax measures or taxes.” Other officials say, “How can this be? We have even been recorded in the medium-term planning documents that we plan to raise taxes!” Well, it's a salty barrack, colleagues. Even by making simple calculations. If VARAM says that it takes 10 million - to reload two thousand people from a regular car to an electric car - how much will it cost to reload a million? Take the calculator, count it. If two thousand - 10 million, how much will it cost to settle a million? Two words, the green course! Thank you for your attention. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U280	The name to the Member, Maris Mozhville, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U281	Colleagues, again! Usually it is said that the example teaches us. And the example teaches in many areas. I have not seen that the example of our government and senior officials teaches us how to use electric vehicles. Recently, the President of Latvia purchased BMW. with a semi-split engine. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Very good!” ) At the same time - which hindered the purchase of electric vehicles and show the people that he really thinks about the green course? They're the same... All kinds of members to lead... in a different volume, in different quality... is still circulating. Leading government members, lead also... these colleagues who demand a car that wants to drive. It is still either petrol or diesel. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Absolutely!” ) I have not seen anyone drive with electricity. Mr. Neighbour with his great Mercedes, it seems to me, with almost a half-circle engine, still demonstrates that he is the enemy of the green course. I don't think... From a Place to a Place of Embarkation (Dep. A. Neighbours: “I am for petrol!” ), you generate more CO2 than by voting in favour of this proposal. I call on you to vote in favour of the green proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U282	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U283	Dear colleagues, I want to talk about not 10 million cars, nor about electric cars. I would like to say a few words about what the demand mechanism is. In this case, the opposition Members who have submitted this request want to expand the discussion on how to better implement the green course under which we have signed up. This is a very correct goal, a very useful discussion. To support or not to support only one thing - to involve in this discussion the Cabinet of Ministers in case the request is supported, which is useful, or to debate one another, which may be useful, but it does not give a certain result, given that this issue is really important not only for rich people who could buy electric cars, but for the whole society of Latvia and Latvia if we are talking about the green course, and not for demagogy around the green course. I call for this request to be supported in order to involve the Cabinet in this conversation. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U284	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U285	Colleagues, I just wanted to clarify that the answer given by the Minister shows that the range of this programme, the range of assistance, is much wider than just aid for the purchase of 50,000 electric cars. And I would like to remind you that this request was rejected in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U286	Please call me! We will vote for a Member Viktors Valaiņa, Armands Krauze, Edgars Tatars, Ulda Augulis, Māra Kučinskas, Jānis Dūklavs, Jānis Vacāns, Janīna Jalinska, Raimonds Bergmanis, Gundars Dauges' application to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš "On planned support for the purchase of waste-free vehicles"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 37, against - 46, refraining from - 1. The request is rejected. Dear colleagues, Members Aldis Adamovičs, Viktors Valainis, Juris Pūce, Krišjānis Feldmans and Raitis Dzintars are asking to continue the sitting of the Saeima on 7 October this year without interruption until the examination of all items on the agenda. Do Members have objections? ( Interfaces: “No! ”) ; “No!” ) Does anyone have objections? ( Interface: “No, no! ” ) There are no objections, so the sitting of the Saeima will be held without interruption. Ladies and gentlemen, amendments have been tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. Members Viktors Valainis, Armands Krauze, Uldis Augulis, Edgars Tavars, Jānis Dūklavs, Māris Kučinskis, Jānis Vucāns, Janīna Jalinska, Raimonds Bergmanis and Didzis Šmits are asking to include in the agenda of the sitting an own-initiative proposal – a draft decision “On the cancellation of foreign missions and holidays by ministers”. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis. ( Independence: “Sad! Say it!’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U287	Colleagues, I want to come up with a little message outside the Saeima's government while we are actively debating here in the Saeima. In my opinion, when there really is... We're opening every news - the medical field, all... There is now a real crisis, colleagues, and we are dealing with economic issues at the moment with the Minister for Culture, we are dealing with home affairs, we are dealing with financial issues at the moment with the Minister for Welfare, we are dealing with the Minister for Transport, we are dealing with environmental issues - colleagues, this is particularly interesting! - the Minister for Environmental Affairs has now found time and is dealing with environmental issues. ( Some Members are applauding.) Colleagues, we also have people who have gone on vacation - government ministers who have gone on vacation. Mr Pavilut will also take care of defence issues in the future, at least today. (Laughter) Some Members are applauding.) He's got time... Indeed, he has found time for all these difficult questions. But this issue, which we have put on the agenda today, is very serious. How do you think the government can work effectively if its ministers are on vacation at this point or have left somewhere on a mission?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Colleagues, we think that we are moving in some direction of the Nordic countries. If we look at the developed democracies... that during the crisis, the Minister leaves on leave, he resigns. Examples include: Demision. In the case of the Minister of the Interior, she herself should resign for leaving during the crisis. Colleagues, now, in times of crisis, we lack half of the ministers in the government. Today, half of the ministers are absent, their duties are carried out by other ministers. Get to know the government's organisation of work. It's impossible that he's a bit away or something... join he may in various ways, but in essence he is replaced by another minister. At the moment, the Minister for Health, when there is a health crisis, takes responsibility for two more ministers! And that's not a question for the Minister for Health, or for whom... MANY... Doesn't matter who... This is a question for the head of government how he organises the work. If the head of government is unable to organise his work normally, how can we expect normal decisions? We are currently seeing a failure on the part of the government to make normal decisions. We see the blame that the leaders of political parties have for each other, which is responsible for this crisis. The head of government is taking it to the opposition, and you are sharing kindness with each other, but when medical organizations ask for a decision, we see that half of the government is elsewhere. Somewhere else! And you think of it as a normal situation, fellow Members?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I call for support for this draft decision, for the inclusion of this draft decision. A very simple decision – until the situation with the Covid–19 has got some normal frame, while the government is in full composition working in Latvia, here on site, not somewhere on foreign missions or more crazy on vacation. On the weekend! And ask one minister, the Minister for Health! - to take on the responsibilities of three ministers today. Colleagues! Support this draft decision so that the government is dealing with the crisis. And then everyone will be able to go on certain journeys if something is needed, but today this is an abnormal situation. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U288	Are Members opposed to including this draft decision in the Saeima sitting? ( The box “Yes! ”) ; “No!” ) Members have reservations. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Ločmele: “Minister of Welfare “Lidl” on mission!” ) Please call us! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision “On the cancellation of foreign missions and holidays” in the sitting of the Saeima on 7 October! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 39, no, 47, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the draft decision is not included on the agenda of the Saeima sitting. The agenda is an examination of the own-initiative proposals. Draft decision “On Further Progress of the 10 168 Latvian Citizens’ Collective Application “On Simplified Small Business Tax Regimes””. On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications - Member Normunds Gunna.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U289	Hello, colleagues! On 8 September, the Saeima received a collective application from 10 168 Latvian citizens “For a Simplified Small Business Tax Regime”, requesting to develop a simplified tax regime for creative and self-employed persons. On 29 September, the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Application reviewed the application and heard a representative of the applicants for the initiative, who stressed that the aim of the initiative was to promote discussion at political level on tax administration mechanisms as an essential part of the tax system. He pointed to the complex and costly tax administration system, on the one hand, by maintaining a large authority of control and supervision, on the other, by making small businesses spend undue resources on tax administration. At its meeting on 29 September, the Commission also heard representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Finance who informed about the measures taken to simplify tax administration and expressed support for the initiative put forward in the collective submission. The Commission unanimously decided to refer this submission to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission for further evaluation, which will be the subject of a draft decision of the Saeima. Please support the prepared draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U290	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 168 Latvian citizens’ collective application for simplified small business tax regimes”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting has been examined. I would like to inform you about the question and the answer that we are going to have today. The Minister for Health of Valaiņa, Taukar, Wuzana and Yalinska, “On spending €761 million on reducing the effects of Covid-19 in the healthcare sector”. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but Members do not wish to ask further oral questions. The question to the Prime Minister “On natural gas reserves in Inčukalns underground gas storage and electricity price increase” was discussed by the member Ģirgens, Pucena, Dombrovskis, Papule and Petravičs. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. Mr Valaiņa, Ms Dauges, Mr Vucanas, Mr Dūklavs and Mr Yalinska, Minister for Finance for the State Budget 2022. The written replies received do not satisfy the applicants, but they do not wish to ask further questions. The Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development “On the State Budget for 2022” is responsible for the question of Member Valaiņa, Dauges, Vucanas, Dūklavs and Jalinska. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but Members do not wish to ask further oral questions. Member of the Minister of Education and Science of Kucin, Ribakava, Goldberga, Niconova, Tutina and Krishan “On another attempt to destroy higher education in Latgale”. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but Members do not wish to ask further oral questions. Member of the Transport Minister of Švekova, Stepanenko, Valaiņa, Sprūde and Ģirgens “On conclusion of a contract with SIA “Mappost” on solution for optimisation of route planning of SJSC “Latvijas Pasts””. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but the oral Members do not wish to ask further questions. And on the additional urgent question. Members Zarins, Kucins, Tutins, Rubiks and Cilevičs submitted an urgent question to the Prime Minister “On the actions taken and failed, which may affect the magnitude of the dangerous energy crisis and the energy security of Latvia”. So the Minister for Economic Affairs (Dep. I. Zarins: “Don’t answer!” ) cannot come to an oral answer. On the basis of Rule 123 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Minister must reply in writing within 48 hours. Consequently, the question-and-answer meeting scheduled for today will not take place. Members' questions have been received. Members Zarins, Agešins, Tutins, Rubiks and Nikonov have submitted the question “On additional information to be provided in relation to Covid-19 statistics”, which is submitted to the Minister of Health. Members Tavars, Krauze, Valainis, Vucans and Augulis have submitted the question “On the Cabinet’s action plan regarding dramatic increases in energy prices”, which we submit to the Prime Minister. Members Lochmele, Zarins, Kucins, Orlovs and Ribakovs have submitted the question “On Covid-19”, which is referred to the Minister for Health. Members Lochmele, Zarins, Kucins, Ribakovs and Orlovs have submitted the question “On Covid-19”, which is submitted to the Minister of Education. Members Petraviča, Pucens, Krapāne, Možvillo and Stepanenko have submitted the question “On compensation for social groups due to the rapid rise in energy prices”, which we give to the Minister for Welfare. Members Petraviča, Krapāne, Možvillo, Pucens and Stepanenko have submitted the question “On the action of the Ministry of Economics in relation to the rapid rise in energy prices”, which we give to the Minister of Economics. Members Možvillo, Stepanenko, Sprūde, Gobzem and Pucens have tabled the question “On statements by the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister Jānis Bordāns in the public space in connection with the operation of Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty of 4 April 1949”, which is being referred to the Minister of Defence. Members Možvillo, Stepanenko, Sprūde, Gobzems and Pucens have submitted the question “On public statements by Mr Bordāns regarding the external security of Latvia”, which we give to the Minister of Justice. Members Možvillo, Stepanenko, Krapāne, Nemiro, Švecova, Petraviča, Girgens, Pucens and Valainis have submitted the question “On vaccination against Covid-19”, which is referred to the Minister of Health. Members Stepanenko, Švecova, Sprūde, Petraviča and Možvillo have submitted the question “On statistics, Covid-19 diagnostic methods and their accuracy”, which we give to the Minister of Health. And Members Stepanenko, Švecova, Sprūde, Možvillo and Petraviča have submitted the question “On the information available to the Ministry of Economics on natural gas and energy prices and supplies”, which is submitted to the Minister of Economics for reply. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name for the statement to Member Kaspars Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U291	Dear Members of the group on support for rare diseases. You can already join the Zoom sitting or meet in the Red Hall. Representatives of the Ministry of Health are invited - about the budget for 2022. Please join me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U292	Mrs. Voika's name is to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U293	Colleagues! Not registered: Arvils Asheradens, Jānis Adamsons, Dagmars Beitnere–Le Galla, Aldis Blumbergs, Boriss Cilevičs, Anda Čakša, Gundars Dauge, Juris Jušas, Ieva Krapāne, Romanas Naudiņš, Jānis Tutins and Evita Zālīte–Grosa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-07-PT13-502-U294	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
