ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2287-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! Let us begin the remote sitting of the parliamentary extraordinary session on 4 August this year. Honourable Members! For us IT specialists have asked to check the current version of the web browser Chrome before the Saeima meeting. Otherwise there may be problems. You have received text messages and emails with a request to check this version. Please, honourable Members, make sure again that the e-Saamia works or is the current version of Chrome on your computers. Let's get started at 10.15. So the technical break by 10.15 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2287-U2	Honourable Members! We will begin to review the agenda of the special session of the Saeima on 4 August this year. First, amendments were tabled to the agenda adopted by the Saeima Bureau. Members Jurās, Feldmans, Riekstins, Cielēns and Budriks ask for changes to be made and for item 6 of the agenda to be removed from the agenda of the sitting – the draft law on vaccination lottery law. Members have applied to speak about and against. ‘ Against” Ivars Zarins has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2287-U3	Good morning, colleagues! I hope you can hear me. Good morning, everybody! Today, we in the Saeima should consider the government's draft legislation on the vaccination lottery. Those who are familiar with this draft law are well aware that this draft law is another proof of this lack of power, incompetentness and permissiveness. That is, this power, which has done almost all it can to destroy the vaccination process, now offers to spend a pointless EUR 1.2 million. I carefully read the annotation of this draft law, I found no reason why it would be purposeful – to spend these funds, more than a million of taxpayers' money, at such an event. The only argument I have heard from the government press conference is that no other measures are working anymore, so there is a need for something new. It's okay! So this is the only argument needed to spend more than a million more. It is significant that of these, more than a million euros – 1.2 million euros... that out of these more than €1.2 million earmarked for the organisation of the lottery, almost half a million euro will be spent on the overall implementation of this lottery. So the prize for the fund will remain around 720 thousand euros. Almost half a million euros will be spent simply to distribute these 720 thousand euros in some way. In the statement you will find absolutely nothing about why this lottery could work realistic. The only thing that has been mentioned is that in other countries it has been done, so maybe it will work for us too. It makes no sense at all that these lotteries were produced in other countries at a completely different stage of the vaccination process. It's like when a new product is advertised: when its properties aren't really what to advertise, then it's advertised through a lottery. At that stage, such a lottery has some meaning – it makes this product identifiable, and those who would be interested in trying it create an incentive to do so. On the other hand, it is pointless to implement the lottery at this stage, because it is a completely different motivation why people do not currently apply for this vaccination. Let's say, a young mom who's afraid of her health... She will find out: o, maybe I can win the lottery a hundred euros, then I will go and apply! Will a person with serious immunodeficiency problems and a similar person who is reasonably afraid of his health find out: o, there is an opportunity to take part in a lottery, then I will go to vaccination! The government has not understood the motivation of those who do not want – motivated! - you are currently receiving a vaccine. Such a draft law should therefore be rejected. What is the new Conservative Party doing, who has announced that it would not want... that it is not ready to support this draft law today? Instead of really examining this bill today and rejecting it and sending it away, the new conservative party offers an opportunity to keep the vaccination lottery. In particular, they propose that the draft law be removed from the agenda today because, you see, they are not ready to vote today; because if the draft law is put to the vote today, then this draft law will not pass through the Saeima and this lottery story will be over. On the other hand, if we support this proposal of the New Conservative Party today to withdraw this bill from the agenda, then the new Conservative Party would enable the political market to return to one of the next sittings and to vote on it. And then this lottery would be and someone would be given this opportunity to spend half a million on this lottery. And this is perhaps the main reason why the New Conservative Party is speaking against it today. In turn, they give it to their constituents as a fight against the implementation of pointless measures and the spending of public money. And here it would be essential – however, to distinguish the form from the content, just like the drain – from the source. Now voters who do not understand the specifics of the Saeima's work are trying to present this proposal – to remove this bill from the agenda – as an address to this point of view. Colleagues, I call for the 'no' vote on this proposal from the New Conservative Party and for this bill to be on the agenda, for today's vote on this bill and for the possibility of such a lottery to exist. We are voting against the proposal of the New Conservative Party to remove this bill from the agenda! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2287-U4	Member Krišjānis Feldmans has applied for a speech about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2287-U5	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, five Members of the new Conservative Group have tabled this proposal to withdraw the draft law from the agenda. And I would like to focus a little on the process that took place before this proposal was prepared and presented. I mean, it's clear that... I think it is not clear only to the rare that vaccination is practically the only way to end the pandemic as soon as possible, and it is clear that the executive - in this case the Ministry of Health and its staff - is doing everything possible to achieve the greatest possible coverage of vaccination by various methods and generating as many different ideas as possible. Many ideas are good and fully acceptable. Even when they come to the Saeima, they endure the sanctification of Members. Well, there is one idea in this case that has failed at least to sanctify the young Conservatives; I understand that there have also been additional issues in other groups. And in this case, I should like to thank the Minister for Health, who gave time to explain and defend one of the marketing ideas developed by his ministry in our group as well. However, the Members tended not to support this bill, taking into account many different arguments, and one of the arguments is the well-known question of costs of organisation; and, of course, the Minister of Health and his team tried to argue why its costs are so high. But there are other reasons. It is clear that a marketing tool such as a lottery has been tried in other countries and countries too, but it has not now proven its effectiveness (at least from the information that is publicly available). And it has already started to study why a lottery has not been the most effective marketing tool to increase the vaccination coverage, and it has been concluded that this is primarily because the lottery does not solve two major problems with each citizen's subjective understanding of vaccination. In particular, the first problem is that if there is a logistical challenge (for example, there is no vaccine anywhere or the person does not reach the vaccination point), then the lottery itself cannot solve this in any way. The other thing is this. Now we are here under the influence of the Russian hybrid war, various... we're already seeing... Maybe there are other problems in Lithuania that are also approaching us at the moment, but... Well, even in this case... on this disinformation campaign... Of course, this has also had an impact. And, of course, it's always something in society... Well, that's the desire maybe not to get vaccinated, and there's people in every society who think they don't have to. And this personal conviction, where the resulting misinformation is still influenced, also the lottery itself cannot solve. And in view of both the above and the lottery as moral aspects, which, looking from different edges, are quite controversial, young Conservatives call for the transfer of this money perhaps directly to the family doctor... Either, these so-called primary care or... Well, in any case, that means milking these vaccines closer to the person and doing everything possible for as many family doctors as possible to get involved in this process, who still receive taxpayers' money... It's like, or else... the provision of these services. And therefore, in order to give the Cabinet of Ministers the opportunity, in accordance with the procedures that exist in the country, to take the draft law back and discuss it again, perhaps to reject the Cabinet of Ministers, rather than, as the Member Zariņš suggests, aggressively put place for the bad government, which he, of course, always does and would like to do as a representative of the opposition. In this case, we have submitted such an application and we want to gain support through a democratic process. Please support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2287-U6	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the exclusion of the draft law on vaccination lottery law from the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please, let's vote! No, 59, against - 28, refrains. Consequently, the draft law is excluded from the agenda of the Saeima sitting. Let us start by looking at the agreed agenda. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on the Compulsory Insurance of Civil Liability of Owners of Land Vehicles” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the National Armed Forces” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Proliferation Management” be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. So, Member Julia Stepanenko will obviously speak... Mrs Stepanenko, will you talk about it or about it? So, Member Julia Stepanenko tells us that...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2287-U7	I was... Yes, I had already applied in time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2287-U8	Yeah, thank you, thank you. So, Member Julia Stepanenko will speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2287-U9	Dear colleagues, I call on you not to support this draft law, even to prevent this draft law from entering the Saeima just to look at it. It's like putting the wolf in the sheep's shed just to shave the air. This bill is a shame to the Saeima, and at no time will it be helped by the fact that today... just a few minutes ago, the Members of the Saeima Coalition made a heroic decision to abandon the vaccination lottery. This will in no way distract attention from the worst evil that is currently trying to enter the Saeima and which is likely to be allowed by coalition Members with their vote. I would like to emphasise that today's vote on the handover of the draft law to the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is not just a look at the vote, but it essentially means the conceptual consent of Members to the substance of this draft law or, accordingly, a negative attitude, because it is impossible to correct this draft law by any means. It is not possible to mitigate the possibility of dismissal. This bill can only be corrected by excluding all the articles that are in it. Given that at present there are very many emotional arguments around this whole topic of vaccination and that the emotional arguments are mainly used on the very side of the defenders of compulsory or compulsory vaccination, I would like to touch some of them slightly. If we're talking about compulsory or forced vaccination... This word game with the coercion we heard at the beginning of this year when Paviluts and Karin lied to us that vaccination would be voluntary, today it means forced vaccination, because human livelihoods... means of subsistence... Prohibition of human livelihood means that a person will be condemned to destruction. And if a person is unable to receive basic services and livelihoods, it is nothing but forced vaccination. If we are talking about public safety, which is very often mentioned in relation to vaccination, then how would it be if we really analysed these risks and benefits in depth, how is it essentially required by the principles of good governance? For what is now sounding is only empty phrases that have no fulfillment; neither is there any meaning - meaningful! - analyses, when it comes to both benefit analysis and risk analysis. Let us start by saying that PCR tests, the fault of these tests and the recording of these tests are still a puzzle for many. Just as if we are talking about risks. If we are talking about risks, we should be prepared for a fully transparent action plan on how all the side effects of these vaccines are assessed in a methodological way. What we see is that what we have found, when we speak to doctors, is that there is no such methodology, and in fact we are swimming in completely dark waters. If we are talking about human rights, of course, Article 116 of the Satversme, which restricts a certain set of human rights which, unfortunately, honourable colleagues, the honourable draft law, is not the human right to life and the human right to health, is being applied very widely here. Because in this case, we are talking about vaccines that have been granted temporary authorisation, and we are talking about vaccines that every patient is given an informed consent and giving up any claims in bad cases. Try to receive this vaccine without signing this paper - you will not be able to receive it. That's why... Why are we so important now... You're... Why is it so important to get this paper instead of saving lives... So, how do you say that? Finally, if we talk about trust in science, then... Science does not trust itself, science still investigates risks and analyses all possible side effects. Science always develops, it doesn't stand on the ground. Trust in science is a lie; trust in yourself, but science needs to be studied. I call for this draft law not to be supported. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2287-U10	Ivars Zarins has applied for a speech about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2287-U11	Colleagues! And the whole society of Latvia listening to this sitting! This draft law will be important in several respects. This draft law is very important for the existing power, which has demonstrated its failure, incompetentness and irresponsibility for society as a whole on numerous occasions in the fight against the spread of co-infection. Vaccination was an ongoing test of the capacity of power, and this power has fallen out in a predictable and convincing way. This power has done almost everything possible to destroy a successful vaccination process in the country. It is this power that has achieved such great disbelief and resistance to vaccination through its actions and its communication with the public. This is not the case in almost any European country. That is why we now need such a draft law - on compulsory vaccination - so that everything is done now. This draft law is very important for the further existence of this power, as it is only possible to preserve its authority and strengthen its further existence. I therefore call for the vote to be taken in favour of bringing this draft law to the Saeima for consideration by all those who believe that it is vital to remain in power, and even if they are unable to bear this burden of power, they need to be given this power - power over society - by authoritarian means. And what about the fact that it is incompatible with the principles of a democratic state? In such cases, you can also introduce your uncompromising democracy in this area. And it will definitely be necessary for you, because it is clear, however, that the requirement for compulsory vaccination will lead to even greater opposition from the opponents of vaccination and will provide more soil for their activities in society; it will divide Latvian society even more. And that is why I call on you to vote in favour of examining this draft law for all those who are important to increase society's divisions, fears, distrust and intolerance, because only by continuing to implement the principle of division and rule in this area will it be possible to maintain a weak and incompetent and irresponsible power in Latvia, as this will not allow alternatives to be allowed. The existence of a real democracy is an important opportunity for a change of power, which makes power accountable to the people. This is not possible in Latvia. I call on you to vote in favour of examining this draft law for all those who believe that the spread of co-infection can be limited without establishing successful cooperation with family doctors and without effective Latvian health care system, but that it is better to create expensive and often well-founded alternative solutions to promote vaccination. You must not give money to family doctors because there will be no money later to distribute. I call on you to vote in favour of this intention of the Kariņš Government for all those who believe that it can be implemented in a similar way to the OIC's, just like the Minister of Economics in the past, Kariņš, with amendments to the Electricity Market Act, including so extensive and unclear legal provisions, that it has enabled any manipulations and the ubiquitousness of power in their implementation. In this area, this draft law is worthy of the OIK phase of Kryšjānis Kariņš. There will also be an opportunity to make sure of this in today's debate. And that is why I am calling for a vote to be made in favour of the examination of this draft law for all those who are aware that this is not only a draft of compulsory vaccination, but also of the waxing of this power, because it is a clear and deplorable source of the true nature of this power to a clear and democratic society, its irresistible desire for the possibilities offered by power and its dramatic inability to exploit these opportunities in the public interest, at least without harming them. It shows the readiness of this small coalition to arrogantly ignore everything to remain in power by any means, even if they are not compatible with the principles of a democratic state. The best that this government could do if it really cared for the fate of the society and a successful vaccination process - it had long since had to resign, because this is not the time for the poor and the little ones. Then today we should not vote in favour of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2287-U12	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, which is the committee responsible, the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Proliferation Management”! Please, let's vote! On - 47, against - 32, refraining - 8. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the Member Cilevičs, Agešina, Pimenova, Nikonova, Kucina and Ločmele's draft law "Amendment to the Law on Electronic Media" be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Member Boris Cilevičs has signed up to speak for’.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2287-U13	Yes, thank you, honourable President. Dear colleagues, Public media have a special role to play in the media market, and that is why the legislation of European countries, including Latvia, lays down the principle of must carry, namely that all providers of television distribution services are obliged to include public television content in all packages offered free of charge. The relevant provision of our current law is out of date. The Must carry principle applies only to the content of public television broadcast on the ground using a linear model, while technology develops and viewing habits develop. Content formation is becoming more and more isolated from distribution, and the current norm significantly narrows the availability of public television content. This problem is particularly relevant for the content of LTV7 in Russian. As you know, from 1 September of this year, so very soon, these broadcasts will be removed from the earth broadcast and distributed through the multimedia platform LSM. In principle, this is the right decision and would potentially allow to attract a younger audience, but what will happen to the loyal audience of existing - quite significant - viewers? Today, most viewers view these programmes using cable TV. If the law is not amended, this content will disappear not only from terrestrial broadcasting but also from all cable networks as of 1 September. It should be borne in mind that they are mostly elderly people, they are unlikely to switch to a multimedia platform model. And so this audience will be irreversibly lost. Technically, maintaining the content of LTV7 in cable networks even after leaving the terrestrial broadcasting is completely possible, and technological solutions can be different, and I do not think that it would be a work of mind - these technical details are laid down in law. The proposed amendment is necessary in order to preserve the content of public television in Russian, its availability and to prevent a sharp decline in its audience. It should be stressed that this issue also has an essential safety aspect. Reducing the availability of LTV7 content would inevitably contribute to an increase in Russian propaganda television audience, because there is practically no other Latvian content in Russian. In order to combat hateful propaganda and false news effectively, it is critically important to offer an alternative content that is qualitative and consistent with journalism. The proposed legislation is aimed specifically at achieving this objective. I call on all State-thinking Members to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2287-U14	Mr. Artus Kaimiņš has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2287-U15	Good morning, honourable colleagues! Good morning, Mr. Cilevič! We have outlined this issue in the Commission, which Mr Cilevič has also presented himself. When I read this draft law, I have to say 'no' to this potential amendment of the law that has now been tabled, and I would like to put all the positions and opposition issues aside, because that is what it is about. Mr. Cilevičs himself pointed out that something is out of date, and that “something” is really out of date. And in this case it has to be said that the LTV7 channel itself is by nature obsolete as such. And also by reading the annotation attached to this bill... Here it is written what can be the impact of the law on the state budget and municipal budgets. It is written: ‘The draft law does not concern this area.’ That is not true. I'll tell you why. Go on. With whom... who has been consulted? It's said with the NEPLP. I wrote to the National Electronic Media Council with all these questions, which Member Boris Cilevičs has just updated, and yesterday I received an answer from the National Electronic Media Council, in which the scrupulously answered all questions related to the must-carry principle and what will happen even further with the LTV network7. So I ask you, honourable Members, to shake your ears and understand what it really is about when there is some kind of building here... possible amendments. So I'll read... quotes... The Council informed that the must-carry principle applies only to the retransmission of the programme existing in linear broadcasting. The provisions of Article 19 of the Law on Electronic Media (EPLL) on the provision of programmes in a certain order do not apply to the content of electronic media that they create and distribute on the Internet, for example within the framework of the on-demand service, as the service is provided on demand within the time selected by the viewers according to the catalogue of programmes offered by electronic media. In other words, each viewer can determine at what time and exactly what content he wants to see. It is therefore not possible, by its very nature, to retransmission of this type of content to all viewers simultaneously and in an unchanged manner in linear broadcasting. From September 2021... It's true what Boris Cilevič said... The content provided for minorities in the Latvian TV channel LTV7 will be provided to viewers within the framework of the multi-media platform for minorities, the name being “MT platforms”. This creation takes place already on the basis of the existing section of the Latvian Public Media Single Portal lsm.lv (the language of minorities). In essence, the MT platform will be a service on demand, but additional content in minority languages will also be available in writing on the MT platform. The Council draws attention to the fact that the content available on the MT platform cannot, by its nature and form, be retransmitted. Firstly, it is not offered in the form of a linear programme that can be retransmitted. Secondly, for technical reasons, the form of the content contained in the MT platform will not be suitable for its transmission. For example, lsm.lv writes: broadcasting in television programmes is by nature already wrong. The Council notes that it is imperative to oppose such amendments to the Law on Electronic Media because this would undermine the implementation of the must-carry principle and that such amendments are not systematically - in their meaning and purpose - covered by Article 19 of the EPLL. But the main thing. Members are always interested in how much it costs - whether it pays or what it pays. Thus: by extending the provisions of the sixth paragraph of Section 19 of EPLL to entirely all public electronic media content, regardless of its initial distribution platform, it would create a situation in which cable operators, programme distribution service providers should simultaneously transmit all six Latvian radio programmes, both LTV programmes, as well as all LSM articles and content produced; this is not possible even in theory. And the most important thing. Negotiations with the British started already in 2016, and we have a Memorandum of Understanding, a tripartite agreement that entered into force on 15 April 2021. And the terms of the Memorandum of Understanding state that Latvia together with the British Council... provides that Zinc Network Limited must not interfere in content formation, as well as LTV undertakes to create diverse content in minority languages on the MT platform. According to the Memorandum of Understanding, the total amount of the project is EUR 421 615. So if we are changing something from 1 September now, then we have to look for around a million euros... funds intended for the conversion of these studies. In particular, ‘Morning Panoramas’, ‘De Facto’, ‘Panoramas’ studies are being rebuilt and all of them are being transformed into studies on multi-media platforms of minorities. These are called S3 studies. S2 studies are being rebuilt. And, in principle, what do we get? We get a new modern medium. And it is now vitally necessary and necessary. In any case, colleagues, one million euros...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2287-U16	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Neighbours. I have to stop you because the speaking time for the draft law to be passed on to the commission - 'for' or 'no' - should not be extended. So Member Artus Kaimiņš asked to vote 'no'. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Electronic Media” to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 44, for - 29, for - 9. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision on approval of Janis Sikšnis as a member of the Public Electronic Media Council. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2287-U17	On 19 November 2020, the Saeima adopted the Public Electronic Media Law and its Management Law establishing the Public Electronic Media Council. In accordance with the Council of Implementation of the Memorandum of Cooperation of Non-governmental Organisations and the Cabinet of Ministers for the Approval of the Council of Public Electronic Media, established in paragraph 2 of paragraph 1 of Article 13 of the Law on Public Electronic Media and Their Management, Janis Strait shall be appointed as a member of the Council for Public Electronic Media. The Council of Human Rights and Public Affairs of the Saeima examined the nomination submitted by the Council of the Implementation of the Memorandum of Cooperation of Non-State Organisations and the Cabinet of Ministers, listening to the candidate's vision, as well as giving Members the opportunity to ask questions to the candidate. The Parliamentary Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs supported the draft decision “On approval of Janis Sikšnis as a member of the Public Electronic Media Council”. On behalf of the Saeima Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, I invite you to support the draft decision “On approval of Janis Sikšnis as a member of the Public Electronic Media Council”.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2287-U18	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name of Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2287-U19	Please combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2287-U20	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2287-U21	Thank you. Colleagues, with today's decision - the approval of a member of the Council for Public Electronic Media - are starting to work in full with the new law on public media. I would remind you that the law eliminates the conflict of interest that exists for years in the NEPLP, distinguishing the monitoring of public media from the functions of the regulator of the whole sector, it establishes a media Ombudsman, a quality improvement mechanism in the public media. This creates a clear distinction between policy and media supervision. The law also gives two tasks to the council – to return to the Saeima with the concept of combining public media and with the concept of a new model for funding public media. When we hear the words “consolidate” and “consolidate”, we are used to seeing the immediate purpose of saving money. But a combination of social media is something else. It is a question of how public media can develop, how to maintain its competitiveness at a time when the media world is rapidly transforming. The auditorium for linear broadcasting has been falling for years. Younger people, as well as my older people, consume the media differently from previous generations. If we want the public media to continue to be one of the main sources of information in our information space, Latvia must be able to be with its audience. It's an audience that's used to getting news on the Internet immediately, not with an eight - hour delay while waiting for the evening news. It is an audience that consumes information and entertainment when it can be delayed for an appropriate moment rather than drawing a finger through the program and switching on the radio or television within a given hour. Already today we can see that Latvian Radio products appear on television, television products can be found on the Internet. There is also a public media offer that can only be found on the Internet and never survives the debut of linear broadcasting. In order for our public media to develop into this multimedia information space, it is necessary to put together resources and to focus on such an environment, an audience living in such an environment. This is the story when we talk about combining public media. I wish the new Council success and inspiration in preparing the concept of unification. We look forward to this in February 2022. Next, about the financing model. It is clear that public media needs funding. There is a need for funding that is independent, predictable and adequate. The existing mechanism makes public media dependent on politicians' everyday decisions. This is not predictable (in the autumn no one knows what the budget will be in January), and it is not adequate. Here, too, we are at the bottom of the European countries - with less funding than in most European countries - less funding than in the neighbouring countries. We did not solve this issue in the new public media law, but it is crucial that public media are not politically influenced, so that they can develop as modern media companies able to win the audience's trust, serve the general public, are able to create an information space in our country that is vital for the functioning of democracy. The new Council looks forward to a vision of how, in the context of Latvia, we could provide such funding - independent of political decisions, predictable for several years ahead and adequate for the public media to fulfil its function. In European countries, we find financing models around us that meet these parameters. We are looking forward to a Council proposal on what model would be appropriate for Latvia, taking into account our local context. This is also expected by the Saeima in February 2022, so that the Saeima can come to a new financing model through discussions, which should be included in budget planning for 2023. Colleagues, today I would also like to address the Council's tasks in the near future: the assembly of public media boards, the approval of the main editors, the appointment of the Ombudsman. It is a great responsibility - to put together the key figures, all of which, working in the common system, will work on the new mechanisms laid down in the new law. Mr Sikšnis, Mr Eglišs and Mrs Uplea-Jegermanes, that is a great responsibility. I urge you to take this responsibility very seriously and to set a high professional level in the choice of these candidates. With the approval of the Council members, a new stage begins in the life of the public media, the challenges are full. All the first steps of the Council will set precedents for how the new law will work. The appointment of the members of the Council itself is also a precedent when the choice is not limited to the members of the Saeima, but we have entrusted it to both the President of Latvia and - for the first time - to non-governmental organisations. I wish the Council to set high objectives and honour the principles that ensure the free, independent functioning of the media in a democratic state. It is a great responsibility to be a rootbreaker. Good luck to you all! Thank you. I invite you to support the members of the Council.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2287-U22	Thank you. So I closed the debate, and the speaker asked for support to be given to both this and the next two draft decisions. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On approval of Jānis Sikšnis as a member of the Public Electronic Media Council”! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Congratulations to Janis Stratni on his new position of responsibility. Draft decision on the approval of Jānis Eglīsis as a member of the Public Electronic Media Council. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2287-U23	Pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 13 of the Law on Public Electronic Media and their Management, the Council for Public Electronic Media shall be composed of three members, approved by the Saeima, of which one member shall be nominated by the Saeima for approval in accordance with the procedure laid down in the parliamentary roll. On June 15, in the meeting of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, the draft decision “On the approval of Jānis Eglīsis as a member of the Public Electronic Media Council” was reviewed. Jānis Eglitis has been nominated for the vacant post of member of the Public Electronic Media Council on the proposal of 10 Members of the Saeima. The Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs found that the nomination of the said member of the Council for Public Electronic Media meets the requirements of the Law on Public Electronic Media and Their Management and must be led for consideration at the Saeima. The Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs decided, by a majority vote, to direct consideration of the draft decision “On the approval of Jānis Eglīsis as a member of the Council for Public Electronic Media”. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, I invite you to support the draft decision “On the approval of Jānis Eglitis as a member of the Public Electronic Media Council”. Colleagues, please support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2287-U24	Dear colleagues, There are some technical problems. A technical break is required. IT specialists, how long is the technical break necessary? So the technical break by 11.35. Interruption until 11:35 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2287-U25	Dear colleagues, Let us continue with the work after the technical break. So we kept on the agenda with the draft decision on the approval of Janis Eglitis as a member of the Public Electronic Media Council. And on behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, let us give the floor once again to Member Artus Kaimiņš. ( Pause.) (See the box below.) Colleagues! There are still technical problems. So they still need to be addressed. Technical break... Is there a need for a technical break? ( Milestones.) Okay, so let's try again. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2287-U26	Come on, he's gone. Dear candidates to the SEPLP Council, do not worry, these are indeed cases of technical errors in this system. Let's go. Colleagues! On June 15, in the meeting of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, the draft decision “On the approval of Jānis Eglīsis as a member of the Public Electronic Media Council” was reviewed. Jānis Eglitis has been nominated for the vacant post of member of the Public Electronic Media Council on the proposal of 10 Members of the Saeima. The Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs found that the nomination of the said member of the Council for Public Electronic Media meets the requirements of the Law on Public Electronic Media and Their Management and must be led for consideration at the Saeima. The Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs decided, by a majority vote, to direct consideration of the draft decision “On the approval of Jānis Eglīsis as a member of the Council for Public Electronic Media”. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, I invite you to support the draft decision “On the approval of Jānis Eglitis as a member of the Public Electronic Media Council”.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2287-U27	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On approval of Jānis Eglīsis as a member of the Public Electronic Media Council”! Please, let's vote! No, 74, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Congratulations to Janis Eglīte on her new position of responsibility. The draft decision ‘On approval of Sanitas Upleja-Jegermanes as a member of the Public Electronic Media Council’. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2287-U28	According to paragraph 1 of Section 13(1) of the Law on Public Electronic Media and their Management, the President of Latvia shall direct Sanita Upleja-Jegermani as a member of the Council for Public Electronic Media. The Saeima Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs examined the candidate submitted by the President, hearing the candidate’s vision, as well as giving Members the opportunity to ask questions to the candidate. The Parliamentary Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs supported the draft decision ‘On approval of Sanitas Upleja-Jegermanes as a member of the Public Electronic Media Council’. On behalf of the Saeima Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, I call for support for the draft decision on the approval of Sanitas Upleja-Jegermane as a member of the Public Electronic Media Council.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2287-U29	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2287-U30	Colleagues! I am truly, if fair, happy that at last on 4 August... We passed this law on 11 November last year... and now, on 4 August, we have all three candidates. We have practically not yet voted a third representative of the SEPLP, two are already able and, above all, willing to work. And I really want to say thank you to all three candidates who both survived this long period of time and found a desire in themselves and, to some extent, the courage to start up to this position of responsibility. If honestly, the work is terribly full of challenges, many very difficult, and this law has been created for a long, very long time - several terms. At least on the paper, some of the campfires have been very, very long ago. Now we are in principle on the finish line and on a new starting line. You all three new members of the SEPLP have a huge job ahead of you. I would very much ask for understanding of the work of the relevant commission, because I would very much like to see: when it comes to the media, any questions relating to them, although both the NEEAP and the SEPLP are present - any question. As far as I can see, we will already have the first question covered by the Law on Electronic Media, which has just been passed on to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs. I see you all three have symbiosis. I very much hope that there will be no disputes between us. I very much hope that you are working together: the NEPLP with the SEPLP and the SEPLP with the NEPLP. I am fully aware: if there is a need for any less help, or as a mediator, the commission will do so. And we'll help you with what you can do for this new institution to work, take over things and the NEPLP... and this great walk would begin to go ahead. So I say it again, thank you. Well, this law already has 11 months, in principle it is certainly a little out of date, if you can say so. And there must be some changes already and so on. But with everything, gradually and slowly. In any case, a great deal of work has been done. Thank you to the Members in the Commission. Thanks to all those who were in this selection process, they were looking for those people who found them, and above all, the candidates themselves. So let's go. And I wish you the strength of your work, a clean conscience, and an appreciation of this high position which is given to you. This mandate is to some extent a credit of trust, but I think you will justify it. So, colleagues, please support this draft decision on the approval of Sanita Upleja-Jegermane as a third member of the Public Electronic Media Council. Thank you all for the long-awaited sitting today when we could SEPLP, so to say, create, and today it has already been done in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-04-PT13-2287-U31	I closed the debate. And the speaker asks for support to the draft decision. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of Sanitas Upleja-Jegermanes as a member of the Public Electronic Media Council! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Congratulations to Mr Sanita Upleja-Jegerman on his position of responsibility. Colleagues, the agenda of the sitting has been examined, time for notifications. At the end of July, our half-round anniversary has been celebrated by our colleagues, Inguna Ribena, Raimonds Bergmanis and Inga Goldberga, and we welcome them. And, honourable colleagues, as both the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission and the Social and Labour Affairs Commission are planned to meet with zero draft laws, then two commissions are going to work. Let us look forward to the news from these commissions about the next sitting today. As soon as draft laws are received from these commissions for further progress, the Saeima Bureau will warn you of the next sitting today. Thank you. And the registration of Members. Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
