ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! Let us begin the remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 28 October this year. On the agenda, ‘Reports by the Prime Minister, Ministers and other officials’. Report of the Auditor General of the Republic of Latvia on the results of the work of the State Audit Office in 2020. The name of the Auditor General Roland Irkley. Mr. Irley, you should electronically apply in the system – press the black button on which is written “Log in”. Thank you. So – the name of the Auditor General.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U2	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Your Honorary Saeima Office! Dear Members and honourable Members, Good morning also for anyone who follows this Saeima sitting and first report of the Auditor General since the restoration of independence of Latvia! It is a great honour for me to be the first Auditor of the State to present such an annual report on the functioning of the State Audit Office since the restoration of independence of Latvia. Although the amendments providing for such a report were adopted already in 2019 by the State Audit Office Law and the first report should have been in 2020, the Co-Copendum introduced its corrections. This year, I submitted a report later than expected. I hope that in the coming years there will be an opportunity to do so already at the Saeima Spring Session. Although the report is on the activities of the State Audit Office in 2020, today I will also touch on current events and future prospects. Today I will not read the entire report, which everyone can get acquainted with on the website of both the State Audit Office and the Saeima, but I will highlight the most important. Given that the management of the State Audit Office was only taken over at the beginning of this year, I will to a large extent report on the performance of the State Audit Office on the time when the State Audit Office was led by Elita Krūmiņa, my predecessor. I would therefore like to thank Mrs Krumina very much at this moment both for her performance and for all the previous eight years. Under the leadership of Elita Krumina, the State Audit Office developed as an independent, professional institution in Latvian society and internationally recognised institution. Thank you very much also to two members of the Council, with whom I had the opportunity to work in the first months of my term of office – Inga Vārava and Ilze Greenhof. As we know, this year, for the first time in the history of the State Audit Office, two new members of the Council were selected according to the competition procedure and gained the confidence of the Saeima. The State Audit Office today can be proud of its truly high level audit work, which is evaluated both in Latvia and in the world. We are among the development-oriented supreme audit institutions that are developing the scope of audits. The State Audit Office not only evaluates accounting or legality issues, but when carrying out performance audits, helps institutions to find ways to invest public funds more efficiently. It is efficiency audits that are considered to be the most complex type of audit in the public sector. In recent years, the State Audit Office has convincingly confirmed itself on the international stage as well. The State Audit Office has been represented in the format of cooperation between the highest audit institutions roof organisation INTOSAI FIPP, which is responsible for monitoring the development of audit standards around the world. The State Audit Office is currently a member of the Management Board of EUROSAI. From the institution that learns and receives assistance from other countries, in the last 16 years the State Audit Office has become an institution that teaches and provides assistance to other audit institutions. From next year, the State Audit Office will also be represented in the Audit Committee of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). The world is changing. The co-legislators and governments of countries, as well as Latvia, need to address increasingly complex and complex challenges related to such areas as environmental sustainability, a more equal distribution of revenue, public health, competitive education. The potential for rapid technological development to improve the functioning of public administration needs to be assessed. Challenges related to the complex geopolitical situation and increasing challenges in the fight against disinformation in the information space must be overcome. We also want to implement ambitious Rail Baltica project here in Latvia and in the Baltics in the next decade. These challenges lead to the State Audit Office – the highest audit institution in Latvia. Do not lie on the laurels, but – in close cooperation with the legislator, the government and the entities to be audited, with colleagues around the world – develop audit approaches, improve standards, ensure that the public sector in Latvia receives at least the same high level of audit service as that provided in the most developed countries of the world and provides as much benefit to society as possible. Historically, the work of the State Audit Office is mainly associated with financial audits. In recent years, increasing emphasis has been placed on performance and compliance audits, and more and more resources have been allocated to promoting economic, effective and legal treatment of public finances and assets. The existing State Audit Office strategy sets the objective of directing 70 per cent of the resources available for audits to compliance and efficiency checks. In 2020, 66.4 per cent has reached this target, thus approaching the target. Every year, the State Audit Office carries out 27 financial audits, 26 of which are carried out in ministries and state institutions; one opinion is given on the annual economic report. The systematic work of the State Audit Office over many years and cooperation with restaurants has yielded tangible results, as accounting and quality of annual accounts improve every year, the number of errors decreases significantly. In 2020, out of 26 opinions, only two with reservations, this year there was only one opinion. Both last year and this year - a few weeks ago - the State Audit Office gave an opinion with reservations about the annual economic report. The opinion of the annual economic report has traditionally been subject to reservations for more than 15 or 16 years, taking into account certain long-term unsolved inconsistencies and shortcomings, most of which are linked to the introduction of the principle of cumulation with respect to tax obligations. This is a recommendation that the State Audit Office has made in the very long term in 2006, but there is also a positive trend in this respect, i.e. all necessary legal basis has been adopted, and it is now necessary to complete practical implementation steps in the State Revenue Service. Therefore, I sincerely hope that, taking into account the recommendations of the State Audit Office, the day will come when the State Audit Office will be able to give a positive opinion on the annual economic report. Given the specific nature of financial audits, we also see and use opportunities to carry out them more effectively, e.g. by using the opportunities offered by the digital environment. Already now, our auditors have access to restaurant accounting systems; this greatly facilitates the work of auditors and reduces the consumption of resources both for the State Audit Office and the entity to be audited. However, there is room for improvement here, too, as financial audits also require access to other documents contained in restaurant record-keeping systems, which our auditors might also be able to connect to, on-line. Unfortunately, this solution does not smell so smoothly, and there is some resistance. We hope that cooperation in this area will improve and that we will soon be able to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the digital environment to make the audit process even more efficient and smoother. The activities of the State Audit Office in 2020 were dynamic, the year was challenging - like many of us in Latvia and around the world. Taking into account the adjustments introduced by the pandemic in our day-to-day and work, the State Audit Office also adapted the work to exceptional circumstances and successfully continued the work - in the future it worked in a remote working environment. New practices were introduced in both audit work and internal training and communication. Also, while working remotely, international cooperation in EUROSAI and INTOSAI cooperation formats continued; we participated in support activities of higher audit institutions of other countries. Taking into account the impact of the pandemic on the State budget expenditure, the State Audit Office also adjusted its audit plans, allocating a significant part of resources to the checks related to the use of funds intended for reducing the Covid-19 crisis... financial audits. The Covid-19 pandemic has affected the everyday life of the country, society and every person. The pandemic conditions have required institutions to respond quickly, to coordinate their activities and to cooperate with each other in order to limit the further spread of Covid-19 infection and to respond to its challenges. Covid-19 has mobilised a significant amount of government budget resources for mitigation and crisis management in the short term and under conditions of high uncertainty. It is precisely the crisis situations that give light to the weaknesses of the systems that show whether and how effectively we organise our work, whether we see errors in time and work to prevent them. When carrying out checks on expenditure and support for coping with the crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, our aim was to give the public confidence that the institutions had called for additional funds and used them in line with the objective of allocating them, as well as to make recommendations to the government and the responsible institutions in areas where improvements are needed. During the Covid-19 pandemic, the State Audit Office re-directed its work, directing a large part of the institution's resources to carry out checks on expenditure directly related to the management of the Covid-19 pandemic, in order to provide the public with assurance as to the reasonableness and legality of the use of state budget funds. In the history of the State Audit Office, this is the first time that we made public a significant part of the financial audit results - in total 25 interim reports - immediately after these checks were completed. In this regard, I would like to welcome a very large number of public authorities and restaurants which have actively cooperated in the audit process. Many mistakes we managed to prevent the pandemic in the second autumn. In particular, when examining the situation with the first grants in spring, the State Audit Office managed to resolve many situations and cases, such as premiums for doctors and home workers, even more quickly. Thus, in fact, the State Audit Office did not have anything to recommend when concluding the audit, as the problem had already been resolved. To sum up what has been done so far for the implementation of the recommendations and proposals of the State Audit Office, we conclude that the main improvements have already been achieved: firstly, the unequal conditions for beneficiaries have been eliminated; secondly, the administrative burden has been reduced and the mechanisms for managing aid have been simplified; thirdly, transparency of processes has been improved. When working with institutions within the framework of audits, we have promoted more equal treatment in the granting of benefits to different groups of the population. A fairer calculation of the premiums has been achieved for home and health workers for work in high-risk conditions. Purchasing in the framework of emergency regulation has become more transparent and in the public interest. Although some of the shortcomings have been addressed, much remains to be done. A number of ministries will continue to work to address weaknesses identified by audits. The Ministry of Economics - 13 recommendations - and the Ministry of Culture - had the highest number of recommendations in the framework of the Covid-19 crisis inspections. The other ministries have five or less... further recommendations to be implemented. Once this work is completed, we can expect improvements in the various areas of crisis management, from planning and providing individual protection measures to more equal treatment between potential beneficiaries and informing the public about state aid and its scope to specific economic operators. In the light of the results of the checks carried out in 2020 on expenditure and support for crisis management, further decision-making on support measures for the management of the Covid-19 pandemic... I would like to mention the most important recommendations that the State Audit Office has made to the Cabinet of Ministers. First. Agreement on common principles for the granting of aid, providing for sectors and groups of society to be covered, in which cases and to what extent, by defining, as far as possible, the criteria for providing aid in the same form of aid in a centralised manner. We have all witnessed that support has been highly decentralised at this stage, that is, that every restaurant has come with its own solutions, that they have been quite diverse. This has led to a situation where, in similar circumstances, someone receives more generous aid, such as a simpler aid mechanism, in other similar circumstances, access to these aid mechanisms is difficult. There are also significant situations where, in some cases, aid may have been excessive, such as for farmers who were granted more aid than the actual reduction in revenue in the sector concerned. Recommendation 2. ( The sound is broken.)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U3	Mr. Irke, we can't hear you. Perhaps there are problems with Internet capacity. ( Pause) We can't hear you, no. ( Pause) We will ask our technical department to contact the State Audit Office and resolve the situation. We can't hear you. ( Pause) Dear colleagues, technical break - five minutes until 9:20. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U4	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall continue the sitting of the Saeima. The name of the Auditor General Roland Irkley.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U5	Good morning! I hope you can hear it now.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U6	It's okay.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U7	I don't know exactly where the report is where we're out of contact. I will continue from a place where... The State Audit Office has provided recommendations to the Cabinet regarding the management of the Covid-19 pandemic. The first recommendation to the Cabinet of Ministers - to agree on common principles for providing support, providing for the sectors and groups of society to which support is provided, in which cases and to what extent, the criteria for providing support for one type of support are defined as centrally as possible. Second recommendation to the Cabinet of Ministers – that the Cabinet of Ministers or one of the central institutions carefully assess the validity of support requests for restaurants and whether and to what extent the Covid-19 pandemic and related restrictions have affected the potentially supported sector or group of society and whether the granting of support is joint and severally and fairly in relation to other sectors available or planned support for Covid-19 crisis management and mitigation. As the State Audit Office has already reported, this support has been much more generous for certain sectors, while for other sectors it has been much smaller, although sectors may have been in similar circumstances. At least in one case, we have identified that the aid is likely to have been excessive because, for example, farmers, dairy farmers were paid the aid (Sound break.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U8	Mr. Irke, we can't hear you. The problems have again arisen. We can't hear you. ( Pause) You should ask for the assistance of an IT department specialist. ( Pause) Interruption until 9:25 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U9	The name of the Auditor General Roland Irkley.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U10	Good morning! I hope that we can now hear and hope that we will no longer be able to break our relationship. I remained with the third recommendation to the Cabinet of Ministers on the allocation of sums. The third recommendation is to establish at least one minimum set of criteria to be met by the beneficiaries in order to qualify for the aid, as well as to provide for the possibility that, in the event of surplus funding granted, it should be returned to the national budget. The Covid-19 pandemic measures are on-going and even higher amounts have already been allocated in 2021 than in 2020 as a whole. Granting and redeploying of funding... resors... This is more than in 2020 to tackle, mitigate and combat the crisis caused by the pandemic. Within the framework of financial audits, the State Audit Office will continue to monitor the use of this funding, paying more attention to areas with a higher risk of non-compliance. As the next big chapter I would like to speak about in my report, there are performance and compliance audits. This has been the case in total last year 15. And indeed we have concluded work on significant efficiency and relevance, as well as joint audits. I am convinced that it is the efficiency and compliance audits that are the direction of the State Audit Office's activities that make the greatest contribution to improving the work of the public administration. I therefore foresee an important role for such audits in the strategy of the State Audit Office for the coming years. As the first major performance audit, I would like to highlight the audit linked to strengthening the rule of law and building up modern law enforcement institutions. One of the lines of audit of the State Audit Office in recent years is strengthening the rule of law. At the very beginning of this year one of the largest and most valuable audits in this field – “Efficient investigation and prosecution of economic and financial offences” – was published, and OECD study “Activities of the Prosecutor’s Office in Latvia: Comparing Research” was carried out in cooperation with the State Audit Office. The efficiency of investigations and trials in Latvia has been discussed and discussed a lot, because rarely one will have an unseen fact about very long investigations and legal proceedings. Different approaches and interpretations of legal provisions are also often a source of questions. Those responsible for inefficient processes are also sought; each other's work is publicly commented on by investigators, prosecutors and judges. This audit of the State Audit Office accurately identifies problems in the system and offers solutions to make investigations and litigations in complex cases more effective. The rapid and effective investigation and prosecution of crimes committed in economic and financial matters depends primarily on the effectiveness of the pre-trial investigation and on the quality of the public prosecution. The audit carried out by the State Audit Office confirms that the excessive workload of investigators and prosecutors, which is often indicated as the main reason for prolonging criminal proceedings, is not necessarily the only negative factor affecting the proceedings. The length of time spent in investigations and trials is also affected by other long-term unresolved problems. In the evaluation of the State Audit Office, the most important is the lack of a common understanding of application of legal norms, uncertainty about the most important circumstances to be proved and the set of evidence necessary to blame for different types of criminal offences. The audit carried out has identified certain norms of the Criminal Law and Criminal Procedure Law, which should be improved for the purpose of clarity and uniform application, as well as indicated possibilities for improvement of the regulatory framework regarding organisation of proceedings. The State Audit Office carried out a large audit in which it obtained opinions on the factors hindering the movement of active criminal proceedings included in the sample from investigators - project promoters, their direct superiors, prosecutors and judges. In turn, experts in the field of criminal law – both practitioners and legal scientists – are involved in research of the case materials of completed criminal proceedings. As a result, the State Audit Office provided proposals for solutions of problems based not only on its own, but also on the opinion of the users of legal norms collected and analysed in the audit. The State Audit Office, after the audit has been carried out, sees solutions for the prevention of obstacles to the investigation and trial of economic and financial offences in four directions. First. There is a need for a common understanding of the application of the rules of law - clarity of the essential circumstances to be proved and of the set of evidence necessary to prove the guilt. Certain norms of the Criminal Law and the Criminal Procedure Law have been identified, which should be improved. Secondly. There is an urgent need to assess the possibilities to improve the regulatory framework, where it is recognised as essential by law-makers, law-makers and foreign experts. The State Audit Office sees possibilities to improve the norms of the Criminal Law so that criminal liability of state officials for criminal offences in the service can be applied not only in cases where direct property loss has been caused by unlawful conduct, but also in other cases where due to unlawful conduct of state officials there is a significant violation of state power or management procedure. Such are, for example, the provisions of the Criminal Law, which criminalise officials for exceeding their official powers and abuse of their official status. Thirdly. The workload of the criminal justice system should be reduced by focusing on investigations of the most complex and fundamental criminal proceedings of national interest. In the view of the State Audit Office, at least two types of mechanisms of cooperation between investigators and prosecutors should be introduced in order to improve the efficiency of pre-trial criminal proceedings, including the more efficient use of the available resources of prosecutors. One is complicated criminal proceedings of major importance to the state, where there is a large involvement of the supervising prosecutor in the choice of the type of procedure and direction of investigation, in establishing the limits of investigation, the necessary evidence and methods to be used. The second is simple criminal proceedings that have standardised investigation, certain initial investigation activities, the necessary evidence and the methods of proof to be used and where close cooperation between the investigator and the supervising prosecutor is not necessary. Fourth. Process promoters must receive qualified technical and advisory support at different stages of the process. In the evaluation of the State Audit Office, qualified specialists with knowledge in the field of finance and economics, analysts in the criminal justice system are necessary at all stages of the process, but unfortunately, their availability on the market is not so large that the institutions involved - the prosecutor's office, KNAB, the State Police, the State Revenue Service and other investigative institutions - are able to provide such competence separately. It is therefore necessary to assess what competences are to be developed centrally, for example in the public prosecutor's office, for the needs of all institutions, and what additional capacity is to be created individually by institutions. Solutions should also be found for obtaining high-quality advisory support on accounting, financial and economic issues, the correct understanding and interpretation of which is important for clarifying the circumstances relevant to the process. The State Audit Office has provided the Crime Prevention Council with 19 detailed proposals to eliminate the factors adversely affecting the effectiveness of investigation and prosecution of financial and economic offences. Here I would like to state the work of the Crime Prevention Council, as well as cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, where a sufficiently detailed plan has really been created, which envisages the careful implementation of these recommendations of the State Audit Office, and most likely the relevant amendments to the law will be made to the Saeima to make the relevant processes more effective and the application of norms more meaningful. The next area where the State Audit Office has carried out extensive audits of efficiency and compliance is the social field. Here we have looked at and selected the topics in those areas where support is most needed and where we have seen the greatest risks that social assistance is not provided to the appropriate extent. The social field has been in the focus of the Auditor General of the State Audit Office continuously stable over many years. Last year we concluded a major performance audit on the national impact of social inclusion policies on poverty reduction objectives. In Latvia poverty reduction has been highlighted among the main priorities for many years. Hundreds of million are dedicated to various social assistance measures, both state and local government. However, despite these measures, the situation with inequality in the country is even getting worse. The audit found that the country does not have complete and up-to-date information about persons at risk of poverty or exclusion. State and municipal social support does not provide equivalent social support to persons with equivalent income and material status. Similarly, in the view of the State Audit Office, it would be necessary to seek ways to promote the productive use of the funds spent by the state and municipalities, targeting the persons at risk of poverty and social exclusion, as opposed to the universal types of benefits, which are also received by groups of society that do not need it. This audit is a continuation of previous social audits carried out by the State Audit Office, where individual forms of support have been assessed - support to persons with disabilities, pension system, deinstitutionalisation or social services implementation process, outside the field of family care and social services activities, providing the necessary support to families with children. This year, we published an audit report entitled ‘Do children with special needs have the opportunity to receive education in accordance with their abilities, needs and best interests?’ . The audit on extra-family care also served as a basis for amendments to the Barn Courts Act. Although these amendments were initially delayed, this year the Saeima adopted these amendments as a matter of urgency, which we also very much appreciate. As regards the welfare challenges, I would like to mention two more challenges that need to be addressed in the near future. Firstly, it is the availability of information. We cannot successfully help people to overcome the difficulties associated with poverty, social exclusion and similar areas if we do not have complete and comprehensive information. Yes, we have databases in the country, we have developed information and communication technology systems, but when we carry out audits we can see that we are still far from perfect as regards the full use of these data. Secondly, a large number of institutions have been involved in reducing poverty and reducing social exclusion with different competences. They are the Ministry of Welfare, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Education and Science and institutions subordinate to these ministries, many municipalities. However, we see that there is a lack of one key responsible and developed coordinating mechanism to allow national efforts in this area to progress faster and to ensure that support is fair and reaches those people who need it. One example of my previous professional experience - support for protected users in electricity... was also administered, in fact, not through ministries, but through a state-owned enterprise, and was granted to all large families of children, without taking into account their material situation. On the other hand, there is the idea of supporting large families... Perhaps there is a need to look more at how we can grant more benefits so that this support reaches all families, or to address an inequitable minimum. The next big subject we regularly touch is education. Here I would like to say that the work of the State Audit Office has focused on looking at how education develops from such a quantitative approach to a qualitative approach. The audit in the field of education has covered both higher education, general education and vocational education. Here, too, are the trends that I would like to draw attention to. The main goal of all of us is quality and accessible education at all levels. We want the education system to prepare knowledgeable specialists who meet the demand of the labour market, who contribute to our economy and contribute to Latvia's competitiveness in attracting investment. We have tried to reform the field of vocational education fundamentally in recent years. More than a billion euros have been invested in infrastructure and training resources in the European Union's structural funds and public money, but the audit concludes that there is no evidence of significant growth in the quality of vocational education and training. Its prestige among potential students has not grown significantly. Significant weaknesses in management, internal control systems have been identified. The role of the Ministry of Education and Science in ensuring the acquisition of new technologies as well as in linking education to labour market demand is not enough. On the sideline of quality issues, audit findings in relation to the cost of scholarships are reflected in the work. There are educational institutions where we also found students who have been systematically unsuccessful or who have not visited the institution. The School of Seas of Latvia implemented an education programme without accreditation, although it was known to the management of the institution, the Ministry of Education and Science and the State Service of Education Quality. As one of the most important priorities in education development, we see the need to improve the current funding model. This can be applied to all levels of education to a greater or lesser extent. With a very simple description of this problem, I would say that we expect quality, but we pay for quantity. Perhaps it is simpler, perhaps 10 or 15 years ago, it was the best solution, but we need a system in which quality in the funding model plays a key or most likely a priority role. The next topic that the State Audit Office regularly faces in its audits, as well as last year, is the management of capital companies. The current regulation on the management of state-owned companies was adopted in 2014, and later it was improved so that Latvia could qualify for the status of OECD member. Therefore, it has been time for you to run, apply the law in practice. I believe that we can rightly begin to assess what has been the success of the governance model envisaged and in which areas the current regulatory framework should be improved. The State Audit Office has carried out several times in audit capital companies and its supervisory institutions in recent years. We have assessed the causes of the failure of the European Union co-financed projects in joint stock company “Latvijas dzelzceļs”, evaluated management aspects of aviation companies, carried out several audits of health in the capital companies, the latter being the evaluation of the remuneration model at Paula Stradiņš Clinical University Hospital. Last year an audit was carried out on the compliance of remuneration of boards of capital companies with regulatory enactments. We have also assessed how the implementation of Rail Baltica project is successful. We assessed this in a joint audit within the three Baltic States. We carry out several audits each year to evaluate the activities of municipal capital companies. The issue of the management of capital companies is a tripartite issue - the interest, competence and ability of the holder of the shares to monitor the compliance of the activities of the capital company with the interests of the state, the coordinating institution, which according to the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers... the mandate and actual impact of the coordinating body on the operation of the capital company in accordance with the prepared guidelines and recommendations of the Reconservatorial Coordination Centre, of course, the legality of the conduct of the management of the own capital companies and compliance with the objectives set by the capital company. When carrying out audits, the State Audit Office has identified weaknesses in each of these areas – from formalism in defining strategic objectives and evaluating the results of the capital company’s performance to discrepancies and violations in the activities of boards. For example, in the audit “Are the rules on remuneration of board members of capital companies owned directly and indirectly by the State sufficient?” Despite the statutory requirements for the formation of remuneration, the State Audit Office found a number of violations. The increase in the monthly remuneration in a number of cases exceeded the maximum limits, investment premiums were paid flat or without any assessment of the results achieved by the capital companies. We were faced with cases where members of the board gave themselves unauthorized financial benefits, such as the cumulative life insurance. The audit concluded that the boards are relatively free and creative to interpret the law, but shareholders often do not notice or close it. These and other identified deficiencies suggest that a comprehensive assessment of the supervisory model of capital companies is necessary in order to determine whether the current management model is the most appropriate for the public interest and whether current legislation and supervision mechanisms ensure effective and lawful activities of state and municipal capital companies. When carrying out audits, the State Audit Office has accumulated a significant amount of valuations and is in any case prepared to provide support for such assessment, if the legislator will be interested in including such a question on the agenda of the commission or government. The next topic that I would like to highlight in my report concerns the use of data in government, parliamentary and, more generally, public administration decisions. The State Audit Office encounters issues related to the availability of quality data, the ability to analyse data and apply better decision making, in almost every audit, regardless of the area to be audited. This issue is topical for the entire public administration. Just a year ago, faced with the crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, we found ourselves in a situation where some efforts over several months required identification of the number and type of protective equipment needed for various restaurants and services facing high infection risks. We saw a significant deviation in the estimates of the groups affected by the pandemic in need of aid, and hence in the assumptions about the amounts of aid needed. Very often aid was claimed to a much greater extent, but in reality the number of beneficiaries proved to be significantly lower. The amount of data collected in the various information systems developed in the country is growing significantly each year, but our analytical capacity to work with these data is not being met. In carrying out audits, the potential benefits of the availability and use of high-quality data can be seen in practically all areas - social, where qualitative data-based decisions would make it possible to provide better targeted support to the social groups most in need - in the area of health, patient data can provide a better understanding of the true costs of services and the impact of prevention on public health. We can only mention what health benefits we would have obtained if the eHealth project had been implemented better in the past and the data contained in it could already be used to analyse the health sector as a whole. We carried out an audit related to the management of Riga real estate, where we found significant shortcomings in data quality as well as lack of knowledge and skills in data application. Data will also play an increasingly important role in decision-making in achieving environmental objectives. We have also carried out specific audits in this area. In 2017, we concluded the audit “Does the public administration work effectively with the information collected?” , and in 2019 – ‘Is the management of a single ICT infrastructure in public administration designed to ensure its efficient use?’ . We have just concluded an audit assessing whether the use of an official electronic address is being effectively ensured. The state is aware that the extraction of high-quality data and its ability to apply it in decision-making and provision of services to citizens improve the efficiency of the use of public funds. Some countries have gone further on these issues, others not particularly. Perhaps we need to think about a data analysis competence centre capable of taking over the best practices in the world, monitoring data quality issues and creating data analysis products for public and local authorities to make better decisions. Maybe it's a role... the private sector must also be given access to national data and the development of data analysis services. Whatever the solution, competences in this area need to be substantially developed in the country, and the findings of the audits confirm this. The next topic - and the practically final one - is environmental sustainability at the major performance and compliance audits. This theme is also very topical at present, both at national and global level, because on the one hand, we are increasingly committed to environmental issues, and on the other, it is in the interests of our own citizens to live in a good, well-ordered environment that also ensures sustainable development. Balancing human comfort and economic interests with environmental sustainability for future generations is an issue that is reflected both in the documents of international partner organisations and in the directives of the European Union. The highest audit institutions around the world are also paying increasing attention to environmental sustainability issues in their audits. That's what we do. In the past few years, audits have been carried out to assess the implementation of energy efficiency policies, green energy support policies, mineral management policies, restoration and maintenance of land-use change systems, waste water collection, disposal and treatment, and sustainability of game species management. These issues often give rise to broad public debate, and we have seen this in the context of our audits. However, this shows that this balance has not yet been achieved, either at national level or in society as a whole. For example, as part of an audit on waste water treatment, we saw that European Union funding has been linked, projects have been implemented and transferred, funds have been made available, with a total investment in waste water collection and treatment infrastructure of more than EUR billion, but for environmental aspects, the connection volume to centralised systems could be much higher. In addition, it also affects the financial performance of the companies and also the end-user’s tariffs. If we have built long, new systems, but for them (A sound defect.) ... there are no users, then the question is how these new systems will be maintained and financed in the future. The current policy to support green energy has proven to be conducive to cogeneration, but other forms of energy such as wind have been placed at a much higher level in neighbouring countries. Insufficient strict conditions for the use of heat from cogeneration (Sound rupture) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U11	Mr. Irke, we can't hear you. We can't hear you again. ( Pause) Technical break by 9.55 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U12	Colleagues! Let's keep sitting. The name of the Auditor General Roland Irkley.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U13	Good morning, third time! I hope you can hear me well. We're coming to a close. I hope that this approach will also lead to the conclusion of my report. So I stayed with support in the field of green energy, and, as I mentioned, Latvia has placed more emphasis on cogeneration, and our neighbours - on other forms of energy, for example, on wind energy. Insufficient strict conditions regarding the use of heat generated by cogeneration and weak control mechanisms have led to the need for more than twice as much state aid for cogeneration plants in Latvia than for example in Estonia. At the same time, under the mark of a big question - whether cogeneration stations will be able to continue to work, at the end of support, while wind and solar electricity have become increasingly competitive in recent years and can develop with minimal or no support at all. In many areas, we can use and use the available European Union funding to deal with key issues - whether it be important infrastructure, buildings or anything else - but I call on the public administration to be forward-looking and to take this opportunity to introduce solutions and technologies that will ensure that we have the lowest possible environmental cost in the future. For our part, we will continue to improve our audits, highlighting more and more the achievement of environmental objectives in planning documents and regulatory enactments... as eligibility and efficiency criteria. A long way from a common understanding of the public in relation to priorities. This can be seen even in recent media clashes of opinion. We must learn together so that in the future Latvia can maintain the status of one of the greenest countries in the world. There are areas that I have not individually highlighted in my report, but this does not mean that they are not on the agenda of the State Audit Office. We carry out significant audits on defence every year. We will certainly continue to be active in the health sector audits, also taking into account the challenges facing health at present. The process involves the reform of hospitals, which divides hospitals into levels. A change in the medical pay model is expected. There are still a number of challenges for outpatient healthcare. This is particularly evident at the moment in connection with the involvement of family doctors in the Covid-19 pandemic. There are still a number of challenges. Very many audit recommendations given in the post-2017 audit “Is the state able to provide effective outpatient healthcare?” and updated in the follow-up to the recommendations have been found not to be implemented. And, of course, the extra load now needs to be carried out directly by the medical system in connection with the pandemic. This concludes with an overview of the audits carried out last year. A few more words about other topicalities with which the State Audit Office is currently actively working. One of our activities is the recommendations. The work of the State Audit Office does not end only with the publication of audit reports. It is important for us all not only to light up the problems and talk about them, but also to take concrete steps forward to tackle them. Therefore, much work is also being done to monitor the implementation of the recommendations. In 2020, 359 recommendations were accepted, while 20 were still to be implemented. More than 90 per cent of the recommendations made are therefore accepted. This has been a consistently high indicator for several years in a row. In parallel to this, the State Audit Office shall also assess its financial impact, direct financial impact, which, as a result of the work of the State Audit Office, is acquired by the state and local government restaurant. Since the beginning of this evaluation every year, every euro invested in the activities of the State Audit Office has provided a return of four euros, and 2020 is no exception. In this respect, it should be noted that this calculation only includes demonstrable effects and it can be argued with certainty that the indirect effects through long-term improvements in various areas are even more pronounced. Another subject that I would like to touch on quickly is strengthening public responsibility. In this area, we continued to work closely with law enforcement authorities by sending 11 reports on possible criminal offences against public officials. Since 2019, when the powers of the State Audit Office were extended, in the cases provided for by law, the State Audit Office has the right to apply to the State Audit Office for the recovery of losses against officials who have violated the law in their activities. This year we have started the first administrative processes according to the new procedure. At the same time, this new norm is very likely to create a preventive effect, as it can be observed that institutions more actively assess the liability of their employees in violations detected by the State Audit Office than in previous years. This is the year... last year for the existing strategy of the State Audit Office, and therefore this is also the year when we have been actively working on the new strategy of the State Audit Office for the next four years since spring. As I have already said, its priorities will be: further development of the capacity of the State Audit Office, carrying out systemic performance audits in key areas for society. It is in our view that performance audits can bring the greatest long-term benefits to public administration and society. In this address, I have already noted a number of topics that can be seen as essential. The new strategy will also include activities aimed at promoting the rule of law and state integrity in public administration. We are also planning activities to help increase the impact of our audits, encouraging the public sector to learn not only from its own mistakes but also from others. A significant audit of the implementation of the Public Administration Reform Plan 2020 is now also coming to an end. Its results, at the end of this strategy period, will be a very good milestone for the new strategy, providing inspiration for new audit lines with a view to promoting a more economic, productive and efficient functioning of public administration. Cooperation of the State Audit Office with Parliament has been close for many years, reporting almost weekly to the Public Expenditure and Audit Commission on the audit findings. However, I see that there is scope for further extension. In certain cases, we have already been invited to participate in meetings of other commissions, informing about findings of audits or reporting on status with implementation of recommendations in some area. I see that this could happen more often as well, and I am convinced that the State Audit Office can provide competent, audit-based support to commission work. Therefore, I also see the extension of parliamentary cooperation as a good opportunity to increase the benefits of the audits carried out by the State Audit Office during the new period of strategy. To conclude this report, I would like to thank Parliament for its cooperation so far, but my colleagues under State control - both board members, auditors and support staff - deserve the greatest thanks and appreciation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U14	Thank you to the Auditor General. Let's start a debate. The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U15	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Members and Members! Dear Mr. Irke! The Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit works in close cooperation with the State Audit Office, therefore, as the Head of the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit, I want to briefly reflect on the work of the State Audit Office and its cooperation with the Commission. I will begin by saying that the State Audit Office has built its reputation and strengthened its authority over the years. It's a great joy. This is confirmed by the performance indicators of the State Audit Office, which show high implementation rates of recommendations in recent years, i.e. an average of up to 90 per cent of recommendations of the State Audit Office are implemented in state institutions. However, there are also a few things that may be less clear or that could be improved. An interesting example here is the cooperation of the State Audit Office with the Public Expenditure and Audit Commission in 2020 so... and the challenges associated with dealing with the consequences of the co-administration. It should be mentioned here that, in accordance with the strategy of activities of the State Audit Office established in 2018-2021, the State Audit Office must be able to react proactively by helping the legislator and the executive to address existing or future challenges by improving, giving greater importance to the audit of compliance for a particular significant transaction, development measure or project... including by continuing the practice of carrying out operational audits. Here really must be mentioned as good cooperation... Thus, on 2 April 2020, the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit sent a letter to the State Audit Office inviting to inform the Commission about the activities carried out and planned during the emergency, i.e. during the Covid-19 pandemic. The State Audit Office was capable... and quickly switched their work, refusing to carry out various planned audits and switching to Covid-19 expenditure control. There, too, we have heard a lot of conclusions. Mr. Irke mentioned in his speech both the Covid-19 expenditure that has been properly assessed (72 percent of the extra Covid-19 expenditure allocated, i.e. the sums of money in 2020) and... The State Audit Office also found in its reports that resources were not used in general, for example in this area of agriculture, where the fall and losses due to the Covid-19 were not adequate to pay the amounts that were paid out. Since there is operational cooperation here with the Public Expenditure and Audit Commission with the State Audit Office, and the joy for the results that have been made of it. I think this story continues and in 2021 we will also see the conclusions of the State Audit Office on the money spent to eliminate the Covid-19 consequences. As another separate point, I would like to mention and highlight the amendments to the State Audit Office law. Colleagues, I would remind you that in 2019 the State Audit Office was actively demanding itself to grant additional functions, and these additional functions were required for the prosecution of responsible officials, both at political and civil level... And also, let's say, recovery... waste disposal. The State Audit Office itself requested such a function. Since 1 August 2019, when the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia granted this function to the State Audit Office, it has to be said that there are no results. This feature is assigned, but the results are... Well, there are now a couple of unfinished cases that have begun to be investigated. Therefore, it should be assessed whether this function is being used in full or whether it needs to be waived. So, well, that's something that we'll keep looking at and see how useful it is. Here's the outline of the future. In his report, the Auditor General noted that it was planned to place more emphasis on performance audits. I have to say that this particular aspect, too, should be critical and thought, is it really not that perhaps it should focus its activities on core functions...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U16	Mr. Znotins, Mr. Znotins! The speaking time - five minutes - is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U17	Yeah. I ask you to unite your speaking times.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U18	So two more minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U19	Here's the overlap... The Ombudsman may also assess these issues with other institutions, for example in the field of the protection of the rights of the child. In the field of effective financial investments issues are also assessed by the Bank of Latvia, which has the largest analytical capacity in Latvia. Therefore, utility audits sometimes also conflict with democratically elected... and managed national decision-making procedures. Therefore, I call for emphasis on financial and compliance audits, focusing the State Audit Office's resources on the performance of key functions, and avoiding excessive bureaucracy and possibly politicisation, which may arise from substantially increasing the functions of the State Audit Office and the size of the official office. In general, it should be stressed that the State Audit Office is a well-managed system and creates a good feedback with the public and also the Saeima. Therefore, on behalf of the Commission on Public Expenditure and Audit, I would like to thank Rolandas Irklis, the Auditor General, as well as the State Audit Office for the successful cooperation so far. I wish to continue to raise the efficiency and reputation of the activities of the State Audit Office to Rolands Irklis and the State Audit Office team, without fear of taking unpopular decisions, if necessary. Thank you to Mr Irkle and the State Audit Office team, and I also hope for further successful cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U20	Thank you. The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U21	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, Mr. Irke! Hello, colleagues and everyone who listens to us today! I think we do not need to repeat how important the role of the State Audit Office in the development of the state of Latvia is. It is good, however, that we can now say this once a year from the parliamentary tribunal. The fact that the state is impossible without an independent auditor was known and included in the Constitution by the founders of our state almost a hundred years ago. In these days, the world and the state of Latvia have changed with it, and it is great to see that the State Audit Office is at the forefront of these changes and invites all of us in the administration. For several years, the State Audit Office has assessed how much its work gives return. It says - every euro invested in the activities of the State Audit Office provides a return of four euro to the national economy - and in its report it has been stressed that 2020 is no exception in this area. Of course, the question is, where was the money? - is very topical, especially in times of crisis. Yesterday I had a conversation with the constituents on the health budget. It is clear that when the ministry itself is accountable for where the money remains, it does not immediately create credibility, even if in this report everything is as it has been. Therefore, I thank the State Audit Office for having responded quickly and followed the spending since the start of the Covid crisis in order to make recommendations and create confidence for the public that this money has not disappeared anywhere. Soon we will see the state budget here in the Saeima. Its use shall be verified by the State Audit Office every year. I don't believe it's going to be late... has not been launched and that will continue to do so. In this sense, Latvians can rely on the State Audit Office. However, the State Audit Office is increasingly becoming the creator of the efficiency and reliability of the administration, not only the developer of financial audit. For the previous eight years, the State Audit Office created it and made it under the leadership of Auditor General Elita Krumina. I would like to express my great gratitude for the work of the State Audit Office, its creation at a new, high-quality level and also for raising international visibility. Thank you to Elita Krumins for these years of work. We heard that more than half of the State Audit Office's resources were devoted to performance audits in 2020, and this is one important step that has been taken under the leadership of Elita Krumina. And we hear that Rolands Irkis, as the Auditor General, is also willing to continue. Today, I would like to draw attention to certain audits that are linked, if I may say so, to the role of carrots and whips in improving the confidence of public administration and the role of the State Audit Office in it, because good governance and the prevention of corruption are as two sides of one coin. That is also essential. Answer to the results of the work of the State Audit Office, where citizens say: you discover the violations, but where are the results, where are the people who have been punished? And we heard that in this area, the State Audit Office continues to cooperate with law enforcement authorities and 11 reports on possible criminal offences of public officials have been sent in 2020. An audit of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Latvia has also been carried out. Such a very scrupulous and high level of complexity, including high quality audit. We now have an opportunity and task in the Saeima to follow the implementation of recommendations, so that criminal investigation work in Latvia takes place in such a way as to prevent corruption from stealing and that those who violate the law do not create a sense of impunity. We have also carried out work that helps the work of the State Audit Office in this parliamentary term – to improve and work on such that there is no sense of impunity, because the law establishes cases where the State Audit Office can address the recovery of losses against officials. And the report...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U22	I am sorry, Mrs Voika, the speaking time is five minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U23	I asked you to combine the two speeches...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U24	Hence, speaking times are combined.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U25	Accordingly, institutions more actively evaluate the administrative liability of their employees in violations discovered by the State Audit Office than in previous years. The State Audit Office works and rocks deeply. We will see results not only this year, but also next year. In January 2020, the State Audit Office published an audit report on the installation of the Latvian-Russian state border band and revealed that at least 7 out of the 14 million euros of state budget funds and property were illegally used, and found illegal significant deviations from the approved construction project. This year, the case has been investigated, charges have been made at the prosecutor's office. Crimes do not go unpunished. This audit of the State Audit Office on the border... pointed out such problematic issues for the construction of the border, which is also relevant now, when we plan to build the border on the Belarus border, because, summing up what the State Audit Office concluded, it can be said simply that the border guard is not the builders, they have other professional tasks and other quality. The State Audit Office does not want to speak on their behalf, but would probably say that everyone should do what he does best. Therefore, the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva, to transfer the construction of the Belarusian border to those who learn it and do it on a daily basis, i.e. to state real estate, should be supported. We can also take such steps in further state governance and strengthening after the work carried out by the State Audit Office. Therefore, I would like to express my thanks to the State Audit Office for its work and invite us to work together... to the task assigned by the State Audit Office for strengthening responsibility.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U26	Thank you, thank you. The combined speaking time has also come to an end. Thank you. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U27	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I, for my part, too... Indeed, it is very good that we have this opportunity today. This is a new opportunity to debate the State Auditor's report. The report is indeed comprehensive, and many cases are indicated, and these indicators of the State Audit Office are... Efficiency indicators are very good, but I will allow a little criticism and an explanation of why. Colleagues, Mrs. Voika mentioned the Constitution before... that the Fathers of the Satversme have placed this element of the State Audit Office in the Constitution. It is right, but it should be remembered that the Fathers of the Satversme were really smart thinking... For it to be as effective as possible, however, it had to be at the heart of... It was basically thought that it should be a representative of the opposition, which is being raised and which is dealing with this state control. In this case, however, it is a representative of the coalition and it must be recalled once again and again. I, Mr. Irkeley, would make no mistake, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that you are really a good national controller... I would urge you, however, to focus more on the misunderstandings that are taking place. Indeed during the Covid-19 pandemic you carried out an audit, but what is happening in the area of health... The audit of utility was, in my opinion, too weak, it could have been much more stringent, and it could have been a much tougher vote on your part, too, as regards what is not being done correctly in the area of health right now. We see huge PR campaigns, advertising for the audience, which absolutely does not call attention to combating the Covid-19 pandemic. To talk about these matters of utility - we did not really hear from you, we heard more, as Mr Znotiņš said, in my opinion, the unfounded accusations of our farmers, an area for which these circumstances were not the best. But where it really needs to be, it was too little, and the money spent on health... Now we see, we can all see how this money has been spent... the fact that there is now a home sitting, and this is the result of this policy. And here, in my opinion, on such matters of national importance, the State Audit Office must be much more aggressive, much more preventive of this. I am not saying that you are not doing this, your report is really interesting, but in a public space you should be the main alarmer, the evaluation of the work of the government. It should not only be opposition, it should also be the State Audit Office, which really raises the alarm and which really comes and by its activity points to what is not being done correctly. At the moment, we see tens of million spent on hospital beds, and these prices raise questions. Millions have been spent on public campaigns to reach people to vaccinate. Millions are not aimed at that audience at all. Now that the Prime Minister of a neighbouring country is missing his finger (a colleague, if you had vaccinated the seniors, perhaps you would have had fewer problems), then there is some kind of activity. Here too is the responsibility of the Auditor General. I would ask you to really be more responsible, to focus more on... and not be afraid to take greater responsibility in these circumstances, because you can also contribute more through these audits. At the moment, unfortunately, this is not enough in my view. I'd expect more from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U28	Thank you. The name of the Auditor General Roland Irkley.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U29	Thank you to Members for your comments and some reactions from me. For damages proceedings. It is true that the regulatory framework was already adopted in 2019. However, it was not possible for the previous Auditor General to use it immediately, because the transitional provisions of the law provided that the first recoveries can only be directed against those audits which were started after the adoption of this law. It would therefore take some time to complete the first audits that started after the adoption of the law. Only within them could this recovery be started. It is under my leadership that the first things have actually been brought forward and we will see where they will end. But here, too, we need to understand this rather narrow opportunity of the State Audit Office to act. If the case has already come to the investigating authorities, then this... disobedient to this process. Given that we inform and initiate proceedings with the investigating authorities, sometimes one of the reasons for not initiating proceedings is that in fact the investigating authority works and this recovery is possible in other proceedings. On utility audits. Yes, well, it's an interesting topic to focus more on. In my opinion, the choice of topics is important in the context of performance audits. We see that, in the past, there have been topics that have really led to very important decisions and solutions. The same mentioned reform of the orphan courts followed in fact only after the audit of the State Audit Office. Consequently, its audit was also a performance audit which produced a sufficiently serious and influential result. What we definitely don't want to do is we don't want to do it, so to say, in parallel to other work, so that this work... a double. In carrying out the audit, we must definitely cooperate with other competent authorities - be it the Ombudsman or the Bank of Latvia - so that the result is as good and meaningful as possible. But what does our work of the State Audit Office differ (and that is important!) ' - we come with concrete recommendations that can be improved in this area, and then there is also an opportunity for Parliament to react. When it comes to performance audits, it is possible that there is a better term for them. What seems to me to be more sympathetic or a little better – “performance audits”. We are all interested in making sure that public administration works well and that its performance is adequate, both from an economic point of view (i.e. how it costs) and from a productivity and efficiency point of view (i.e. how much we get for this spent money, what results). This is the focus of these audits. Perhaps in the future the focus could shift more towards these aspects of economy and productivity. It has to be acknowledged that so far quite a lot of attention has been paid to the efficiency side - whether the state is providing the services in question to the extent necessary. Finally, the reaction to that... First of all, the Auditor General serves the public. And that's how I perceive my job - that it's my job to serve society. Today, in front of you, I am also to a large extent in front of the whole of society. It is indeed in our interest to focus on those areas, those with the highest risks, and the health sector is certainly a high-risk sector at the moment. Last year, we pointed out the problems with mask purchases, the purchase of protective equipment, the cost of tests (as much as the state pays for testing), and we talked about investment in hospitals and capital companies. So that the conclusions were already... for 2020. And now... We have already started financial audits for this year, and within the framework of these financial audits, we will also assess the use of funds in the area of healthcare, and there will certainly also be conclusions on the funds spent this year. Finally. Yes, when talking about the opposition, definitely the work of the State Audit Office could be very interesting for the opposition, and in many countries it is a honeyfashion that the State Audit Office offers, because it is an opportunity then to use this result as well and to claim responsibility for both the opposition and the position... from executive... and, through this, to exercise parliamentary control. That's my quick reaction. Thank you once again for your comments. And, to say so, to further cooperation!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U30	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U31	Hello, Latvian society! Hello, Auditor General and colleagues of the Republic of Latvia! Listening to this sitting of the Saeima, I'm not left with the feeling that we are partly in some kind of... In 1970... The Soviet Socialist Republic. So many songs of praise - how beautiful and wonderful everything is! And it happens at a time when we're in the world's first place... with a negative sign - the world in the first place... in relation to what is happening in hospitals. It happens at a time when... In the last two years, Latvia's healthcare... In the treatment of co-morbids (I place particular emphasis on the treatment of co-morbids!) has allegedly invested EUR 500 million - half a billion - but only a hundred beds have been created. We have an empty “Linezer” hospital where 14,000 people can be served. Nothing's happening there. One hundred beds?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We don't have doctors, we don't have nurses, we don't have anything. We don't have the oxygen balloons bought, we don't have the monoclonal boots bought for the early stages of treatment. And we're big under State control? About what? Five hundred million have been stolen. Covida treatment... In any event, they are not invested in the treatment of co-morbids. And in principle, the State Audit Office has not caused any obvious trauma. Nothing actually works. It is similar to that of the State Revenue Service... Makes 6856 audits and collects 70 million. By releasing all those employees of the State Revenue Service, the benefit to the State would be greater than 71 million. It is similar with the State Audit Office at present. I would recommend to Mr Irke that he turn the navel link that he has with the Unity. Understand that the time of the Unity is approaching the end, and start really as the Auditor General to control it... How abnormal theft has been for the last two years! In total, Latvia has borrowed four billion, and we are in the last place... Four billion! They are crushed, eaten, and we have not actually done anything permanent, valuable in the Republic of Latvia. Of these four billion, 500 million have been precisely for the sector, which is why most of Latvia's society should not leave home after 8 a.m. If anyone's out then they're fined for it. These 500 million stolen are the reason why many are laid off today or will be dismissed after November 15. Due to these 500 million stolen, there are sorrows and tears stories in many families, but the State Audit Office has done nothing in this regard. In fact, the State Audit Office has acted as a UNITY cover for these last two years. And the same mask purchase or medicine purchase... Well, what's the end of it? Not with anything. I call on all those who are watching this live session of the Saeima to think about these issues - whether the State Audit Office has paid sufficient attention to the relevant case, and whether Mr. Irke, who has had a historical connection with the Unity... In fact, it has not been the real Auditor of the State, but the UNIFORM as a political organisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U32	Colleagues! The debate will continue after the break. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U33	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! We keep sitting after the break. We continue the debate on the State Auditor of the Republic of Latvia's report on the results of the work of the State Audit Office in 2020. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please! ( Pause) Mr. Zarins, you can't hear, you can't see. ( Pause) Mr. Zarins, you don't hear or see. We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U34	Hello, dear colleagues! Looks like Ivars's already signed in. Let us, of course, give him the opportunity to speak again. As for the year 2020, and for this pandemic that joined Latvia, I would like to say that it was clear at the very beginning that this could be a very good way for politicians to make different types of procurement, which will be difficult to discover. Therefore, in order to be able to receive various types of information on how well they were done, I wrote personally to the Cabinet of Ministers an invitation to publish all these expenses so that the way this money will be spent would be transparent and transparent. I also address the Auditor General, former Auditor General, Elita Krumina with an invitation to participate in any meeting at the Cabinet of Ministers... In the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers or in the same working groups, I called on you to control and to avoid possible irregularities with your advice that could happen. Unfortunately, now that more than a year has passed since these suggestions, I would say that none of them really worked. As an example of this, we can mention even these purchases. We can enter the covid19 website. gov.lv and try to make sure how these billions or even the same 100 million have been spent, but most likely you will be convinced only about the few million that have been spent. In particular, in 2021, the last entries are only available in May. In this year 2021, only a few entries have been published - by a couple of millions. The question arises: where has the rest of the money been spent? We can also enter the Ministry of Defence's website and look at these purchases, and the picture that opens there is quite similar, exactly the same. We cannot make sure where this money has been spent. And, speaking publicly about these 80 million... that they are only at 120 beds, nor can we make sure that they are true or not. That's why I still... I also called on the State Audit Office, especially the State Auditor General, Mr. Irke, to take over this management more actively in my hands yesterday, and to start to make public information about where all this money has gone. And now - not just about that financial side, about how properly these documents have been arranged, but... more about their usefulness. How much money has been spent? Let's take the same example... there are 120 beds, but we can see that these days have already been repeatedly demanded - in addition! - more than three million euros to create new beds. Money is needed again! A new scheme has already been invented - about these antigen tests that will be carried out when entering medical facilities; it will take about five million more every month. The shadow of suspicion is becoming more and more - that certain entrepreneurs are lobbying... And just like... entrepreneurs who have not had previous experience in different procurements suddenly become, you can say, millionaires. That is why I would still call on Mr Irkle to take on this: to be courageous and to start to control, to take part in every meeting and to publicly inform citizens of where this money has gone, because at this point all this looks like the purest aperture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U35	Thank you. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U36	Good afternoon, everybody! Assuming that this debate on the State Auditor's report is held in the Saeima, not just so that we can deal with political rhetoric here, but also so that we can use this opportunity as an instrument for establishing cooperation between the legislator and the State Audit Office... I will touch on a few specific cases, and I will have a few concrete proposals for the future functioning of the State Audit Office, which I think are very important for the whole of Latvian society and also for the State Audit Office to prove that it is really independent, independent of power, an organ that is competent to assess the current situation. That is, I will touch on one very specific area, which I have been working on for many years. In its report, the State Audit Office has rightly noted that a disproportionate, inadequate, too generous support policy has been applied to so-called green energy aid. Unfortunately, following the current situation professionally, I can say that there have been no fundamental changes. This, the current government, the government of Kariņš, continues the OIC phase, raising them to an unprecedented level, even in violation of the rule of law. That's why I have certain things that... I call for an assessment to be made of what is currently the current framework, so that it is not just an empty political rhetoric that we here in the Saeima... Get up. And all the efforts of the opposition... It is noted that the opposition is dealing with political rhetoric. I therefore call on the State Audit Office: to evaluate, first and foremost, the existing framework for this green, renewable energy - as it has been - and the specific action taken by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Specifically. So, if we're talking about the framework, then... Parliament, the legislator, has adopted amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market, which provided for the Cabinet of Ministers the task of drawing up specific regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers regarding both prevention of overcompensation and use of useful thermal energy, concerning the single technological cycle and many other specific cases that I will not now list here. It would be necessary for the State Audit Office to make sure that these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers are drawn up, adopted and that they are in line with the legislative spirit, the purpose of the... the purpose for which it was designed by the legislator. If we are talking about concrete actions, I call for an assessment of what specific actions the Ministry of Economics has taken after real implementation... electricity... checks. In 2018 and 2019 the public electricity trader carried out professional, real OIC station checks. These reports were submitted to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. When we look here in Parliament, we show, with the facts, we proved that the Ministry of Economics... Although these checks were carried out, an appropriate response to the results of these checks was not followed up and was not implemented. And we have proved with the facts that these checks are realistic, documentaryly there are fixed frauds that... shows an extremely large amount of... to which the Ministry of Economics had not responded or had responded in any way in such a way that these frauds were not prevented but covered. And I am calling for an evaluation now. One was what the Ministry of Economics has done with regard to these inspection protocols, the results of the checks. The other thing. We, the legislator, had made it compulsory for the Ministry of Economic Affairs to report to the Saeima on the performance of these OIC stations for the last three years. And here again, I call on the State Audit Office to verify what action the Ministry of Economics has taken in drafting this report, and... The facts found in this report... to respond to these findings. Because here for any person who is much less professional in these matters, literally within a few seconds it's obvious... Seeing this data... that this report has identified fraud at an extremely high level. We are talking about many, many millions. What action the Ministry of Economics has taken to make this fraud... to respond to these facts? In parallel, I call for an assessment of the compliance of the Ministry of Economics and this government with the statutory rules of the Cabinet of Ministers - Regulations No. 560 and Nos - 561, which means... What's interesting? This report, which the Ministry had to submit to the Saeima, had to be submitted by October... last October. Last September, the Ministry of Economics proposed to the government to make amendments to the Cabinet Regulations, which prohibit, restrict the right to recover this defrauded aid, which... will be on previous years... which appears in this report. I call on the State Audit Office to assess the compliance of these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers with the spirit of law, and more specifically on how...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U37	Mr. Zarins, your speaking time is over. Do you want an extension?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U38	Merge up.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U39	Please! Your times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U40	So: I call on the State Audit Office to specifically assess the regulation of these Cabinet Regulations regarding the possibility of recovering these funds... that unjustified, unlawful aid. That's how... This is a way of circumventing the legislator's will to recover this unduly paid aid for many years, which has been and is worth millions of years. So what I want to say. It is obvious that this government of Karini, contrary to what has been promised and written by the people in its government declaration, is currently dealing with the cover of this area in an illegal way, as no one has ever done at all. You can make sure of this by passing through these specific facts, which I mentioned, both with regard to the legislative framework (the Cabinet of Ministers regulations) and to the actions carried out by the Ministry of Economics, in particular by assessing how the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers established by this government of Kariņš are helping or currently actually hindering the State Building Control Office from responding to detected fraud and irregularities and, accordingly... order them to be compensated. It is obvious that these rules are specifically designed so that the State Building Control Office is bound, as far as possible, by its hands and it is as difficult to detect these apparent frauds. Of course, the fact that fraud has already been detected is also very important, as is the fact that the "public energy trader" test reports and report to the Saeima. So these are specifically recorded facts about... assess whether the responsible officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs have adequately responded to these findings. For your part...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U41	Mr. Zarins, you're out of time now. Thank you for your participation in the debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U42	Dear President, Dear colleagues, I think there was no surprise about the Auditor General's report on the results of the State Audit Office's work in 2020. We heard really one such speech about the methodology used by the State Audit Office and, among other things, about the progress made by the previous controller during his work. But what I really wanted to hear... First of all, I wanted to hear, listen to someone who could dispel the concerns... At the time when the Auditor General took office, it was indicated that the Auditor General represents the power parties, not only the unity of the parties, but also, among other things, the political force, which is now responsible for the field of health and the field of home affairs in which... we hear and see, in fact, that there is now not only an emergency in the country, but also a war state, as the medical staff say. It was really asked to hear operational information about what audits are currently being carried out in these departments, but, when entering into the State Audit Office's website, everything that is currently related to checks of the Covid-19 pandemic – these are two checks: verification of the compliance of the loans granted to municipalities with the Covid-19 impact reduction and, in the case of entrepreneurs, of two support measures for taxpayers (the VAT overpayment case and the accelerated VAT refund procedure). But we do not see that there is now a serious, operational state control action in the area of health, which, among other things, colleagues - previous speakers - have pointed out: both for these hundreds of millions that are currently being spent, for their usefulness, and for how much these goods and services are paid in the summer, how much they are paying. They are two and a half times more expensive than they are purchased. We have heard nothing about this responsibility. I wouldn't want to wait next year when it really will be done... These inspections will be concluded and will tell you how bad everything was. Then we will have already lost a huge amount of taxpayers' money, the company will have suffered... society is fragmented and, in particular, in the area of health, is currently extremely, extremely difficult with infrastructure. What the government has done this whole summer... When the autumn comes, the current wave, the heavy wave, the pandemic wave... when the use of these funds has not been targeted and effective and useful... we hear that there is a lack of infrastructure... There's a shortage of beds. The State Audit Office, which would really look for, where there are problems, would also be responsible to the most direct extent. To really remove the concern that Mr. Irke is Unity and Development/About! appointed national controller to cover to a certain extent... I hope that this is not the case, and I very much hope that I will be wrong; that the State Audit Office will really be involved operationally in matters that are vital for Latvia as a whole, and will come with interim reports, if necessary regularly to the Saeima and will report on what has already been discovered in the current year, and will come with initiatives, not after a year or a year and a half, we will hear a review of how well everything has been and how bad everything has been. We can get acquainted on the State Audit Office's website with the accuracy of the ministries' accounts, checks and everything, but we do not see what is most relevant – now, operationally, now in the country. Let us not count, as they say, the dead or the loss when it's over. We have the opportunity to turn a lot of things into good now. Therefore, I really call on the State Audit Office to engage in the processes and actualities that are currently taking place, where huge amounts of money are being spent, so that, in reports after a year, we can hear that we have managed to prevent, rather than find, quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U43	Thank you. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U44	Thank you. Hello, colleagues! Keep going on with what Mr. Zarins and Mr. Tatars have said. Three things that I think the State Audit Office should pay more attention. The first case is the optimisation of the public administration. This has already been mentioned in part by the Auditor General when it comes to the implementation of social policy, when it comes to the diversity of databases and registers, their connectivity and interoperability, and the efficiency of their use, and so on. The second thing. Work with alarms. I think that rather than the State Chancellery, the State Audit Office should play a decisive role in this field, because it would not only involve public activities... inspections, but also to contribute to the effectiveness of controls themselves. And the third thing. I think at the same time, when discovering the shortcomings of various types, it is very important that the State Audit Office should also promote examples of good practice. This is extremely important to show that public administration is not only based on shortcomings, but is also based on examples of good practice that are extremely important for others... It's a multiplication of good practice... And in general, this could contribute to improving the efficiency of public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U45	Thank you. The name to Member Ralph Nemir. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U46	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Colleagues! The Auditor General! Thank you very much for the report. In some cases... Quite a lot has, in principle, been noticeable thanks to the debate taking place within the Commission on Public Expenditure and Audit... it is also being analysed. In this case, I would like to draw attention to two things that could be such as a lifting bag for the next period. At the moment we are approaching the national budgetary procedure, and we see that a very large part of the many good, important national things that we will want to do will be on debt. This debt 13. The Saeima has increased from EUR 11 billion to EUR 17 billion over the term of the Saeima. What could that mean? Very simple things, of course, are that this sovereign debt will certainly have to be repaid to our next generations. That's what we leave the bag for our future generations. Therefore, so that we can qualify and hope that our future generations will not have to return this money from their wallets, but from the money they earn, I believe that investments are basically needed in two directions. Firstly, it is education. And the education budget, in my opinion, is not quite large at the moment. It should be bigger. Secondly, investment in our economic development. It is very important that we combine these two sections: a wise, educated Latvian citizen who is able to earn money for himself or his family to pay the appropriate taxes accordingly. Its combination, in my opinion, is what we should be moving on. I ask you to pay attention to how it is implemented and whether it achieves its objectives. The second thing that would be very important, which should also be of importance, is transport energy. In the case of transport energy, we have adopted very ambitious targets. This sector is scattered, I think about five ministries, one is not really responsible, so if we do not achieve these ambitious goals, the country will certainly have to bear very high costs of paying the appropriate fines. Moreover, as long as we achieve these objectives. As a result, there is a lot to do here from the perspective of using such funds, and there is a lot to pay attention to. You, Mr Auditor General, have also paid much attention to crisis management in your report. And crises, as always, show both an opportunity, i.e.... improve some of the things that have not been done correctly and identify errors. In this case, very serious problems can be identified precisely from the point of view of governance and coordination. Very many different questions arise as to whether institutions do not duplicate each other's functions, or whether this coordination of interresors, or even more precisely, has been at a sufficiently high level. That is why we now have a vaccination project department, which coordinates something, we have a Transparency Coordination Centre, all kinds of management groups that coordinate something. So this is also a question of sound management... the execution. Please pay attention to this, and may you be successful in your work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U47	Thank you. I closed the debate. The name of the Auditor General, Mr. Irke. Please! ( Pause) Mr. Irke, we can't hear you. ( Pause) Technical break for five minutes. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U48	Mr. Irley, please apply. The name of the Auditor General Roland Irkley. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U49	That's the last attempt. I hope you can hear me now?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U50	Let's hear it, yeah. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U51	Once again, thank you very much to Members for their comments. Indeed, in my opinion, this report is one of the reasons for listening to Members' views and views on the work of the State Audit Office, so much thanks indeed for all this. On the subject of audits and, in this case in particular, on the checks on the kovide's money, I would like to emphasise once again that last year... for the year 2020, the State Audit Office examined very comprehensively the expenditure related to the Covidean crisis, more than 90 percent of all expenditures that were approximately (not heard.) ... EUR. This year, when we plan financial audits, we are also planning to address these aspects and there are certain issues that we will assess in depth. The fact that it cannot yet be seen on the website is normal because these checks are carried out within the framework of financial audits. Financial audits initiated on the State Audit Office's website (Not heard.) ... that there are also checks directly related to the comma at the bottom. With regard to the OIC, which Mr Zarins mentioned, the aid for green energy was actually assessed in a recent audit, which was published at the very beginning of this year, and thus during the time of Elita Krumina. There were also many conclusions in relation to monitoring and recommendations. We expect improvements in this area. At the same time, several criminal proceedings have been initiated... officials... in relation to the exercise of supervision. We hope that these processes will be arranged, and what the State Audit Office will definitely do - we will follow the implementation of recommendations, and there is also a possibility to do without it (not to be heard.) ... So thank you also for these recommendations. Finally, such an additional comment on how we, as the State Audit Office, get to audit topics. Here, I may be slightly changing the approach, as I have done before. The topic of the audit will be chosen very hard to involve all the members of the Council, because the State Audit Office is a collegial institution, and that is how I lead the State Audit Office at the moment. The most important issues, the most important decisions we make together. This is also a way to guarantee that the State Audit Office is an independent institution, because when making decisions jointly, discussing them openly, we can communicate openly with the public, with the parliament. It is also, to a large extent, one of the primary cornerstones of independence of the State Audit Office. I promise Members that this approach will continue, and the National Ombudsman alone will not be the one who accepts (A sound defect.) ... audit topics. Thank you once again to all the Members for their recommendations (A sound break.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U52	Thank you, Mr. Irke. We're losing sound and communication with you again. Thank you, Mr Irkle, for your report. So we have dealt with the first part of today's agenda. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Members Ainars Latkovskis, Anda Čakša, Rihards Kozlovskis, Inese Lībiņa–Egnere, Arvils Aseradens, Raivis Dzintars, Atis Lejiņš, Juris Pūce, Kārlis Šadurskis and Dagmara Beitnere–Le Galla has submitted a draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Ata Lejiņš from the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Please call me! Let us vote on this draft decision! Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Members Ainars Latkovskis, Anda Čakša, Rihards Kozlovskis, Inese Lībiņa–Egnere, Arvils Aseradens, Raivis Dzintars, Atis Lejiņš, Juris Pūce, Kārlis Šadurskis and Dagmara Beitnere–Le Galla have submitted a draft decision on the election of Member Ata Lejiņš to the Foreign Affairs Commission. Please call me! Let us vote on this draft decision! Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Members Ainars Latkovskis, Anda Čakša, Rihards Kozlovskis, Inese Lībiņa–Egnere, Arvils Aseradens, Raivis Dzintars, Atis Lejiņš, Juris Pūce, Kārlis Šadurskis and Dagmara Beitnere–Le Galla has submitted a draft decision on the election of Member Kārlis Šadurskis to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Please call me! Let us vote on this draft decision! Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! No, 73, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, we are on the agenda under Title III - Examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Maris Kučinskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U53	Hello, honourable Members! We have not received any proposals for the third reading. Please support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U54	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media, third, final, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Packaging Act”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U55	Hello, colleagues! See the draft law “Amendments to the Packaging Act” (No. 1154/Lp13). Three proposals were received for the second reading. 1. - Ivars Zarins' proposal. The Commission decided to leave this amendment, which concerns the wording of Rule 18.6, in the text of the first reading and not to support Member Zarins' proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U56	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U57	Good afternoon, everybody! I would have called on the rapporteur to remind him that... First of all, as the Secretary of the Commission... when you report, you also have to say about the substance of the proposal, which is what this proposal is about. So the proposal is, in my opinion, up to date and to be supported, and I will explain why. This proposal is about the length of time the deposit system operator has to pay to the merchant for the bottles that have been transferred - the container that has been transferred by the deposit system operator to the deposit operator. In particular, there is a deposit fee, and for how long this deposit fee has to be repaid for the deposit transferred to the operator. Where is the absurdity of the current situation, which I think is not fully understood by the members of the committee, because unfortunately, this issue has been dealt with in a very strange way at the sitting... So the situation is as follows. There is a deposit operator who is a monopoly and who determines the terms of the game. At the moment, the law is designed so that this monopolyist is given the opportunity to traders who collect... which are legally obliged to collect the deposit package and, when collecting this deposit package, to pay the deposit to the customer themselves, to wait for the deposit operator to return this deposit money to them. What is proposed in my proposal is that a specific deadline should be set for how long it can be done by offering five days. Within five days, the operator, this monopoly, has to settle with the merchants. This proposal came directly from small traders, because they see here a disproportionate burden on their activities. Imagine a farm store where this deposit is delivered, which needs to pay a deposit, and the operator according to the legal, currently established procedure... You can meet in more than a month’s time, you can get up to 51 days, but this shop will have to wait for the operator to release the money that the store has long been entitled to. That is the argument why this proposal was rejected - because the operator said: "Yes, but we will be uncomfortable, we will all have to pay so much, we do not have a system in place." Colleagues! Johaidi! What are we talking about?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So - and here I am addressing my colleagues from the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission first - you may have been misled yourself because one of the producers who has formed this operator was speaking instead of this operator. Then, in the present case, you defended not the interests of our producers, but the interests of one artificially formed monopoly against all the other Latvian entrepreneurs, who are in market conditions and should not be discredited because this monopoly has not been able to do so at the moment, it has not been in an interest to work towards a more efficient and faster settlement system. In my opinion, this would be our duty as legislator: to put such a clear framework into the law at the moment. In my opinion, giving five days for the monopoly to pay for this deposit fee with the merchants is a sufficiently long time. I would therefore call for my proposal to be supported and for such a procedure to be established, which would only be fair and would require this monopoly to make the necessary investments to ensure such a settlement system. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U58	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, what are you going to say, Mrs. Kursīte?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U59	Yes, the Commission really had a sharp debate, but a majority voted against the proposal, because it also provided for the conclusion of a contract and other provisions to be rejected, so it was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U60	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Zarin's proposal! Please, let's vote! On - 35, against - 43, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U61	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. We exclude in Article 18.6 the words "after receiving the deposit package". It also solves quite a lot. The Commission was supported. Please support proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U62	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U63	3. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tomas Plšs. The first paragraph of Article 22 shall be deleted. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U64	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U65	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U66	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Packaging". Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U67	November 4th of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U68	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 4 November this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Veterinary Medicine”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U69	Good afternoon, colleagues! See the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Veterinary Medicine” (No. 1121/Lp13). Three proposals were received for the second reading. 1. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard. The law shall be supplemented by Article 21.3. Supported by the Commission. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U70	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U71	2. - Legal commission... Legal Bureau, sorry, offer. The Commission is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U72	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U73	3. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. The Commission is supported. Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U74	Members support the request to clarify the substance of the proposal. Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Veterinary Medicine”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U75	11 November of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U76	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is November 11, this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Protection of Species and Habitats”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Dūklavs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U77	Hello, colleagues! We work with document number 1149/Lp13 - Amendment to the Law on the Protection of Species and Habitats. We have received one proposal. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It concerns the first paragraph of Article 10, which deals with the means intended to cause damage to animals of the species to be specially protected and migratory... the arrangements for receiving the refund. Therefore, the Law Office urges to supplement the first sentence of Section 10(1) of the Law after the words ‘significant damage’ with the words ‘to the extent specified by the Cabinet of Ministers’. The proposal is supported. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U78	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U79	Thank you. Consequently, all the proposals have been examined, to be precise, one proposal that was. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U80	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Protection of Species and Habitats”! Please, let's vote! No, 82, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U81	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 4 November of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U82	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 4 November this year. On the agenda - Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Annual Accounts and Consolidated Annual Accounts, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhena‐Beeken. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U83	Hello, honourable chairman and colleagues of the Saeima sitting! The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission reviewed draft law “Amendments to the Law on Annual Accounts and Consolidated Annual Accounts” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 1187/Lp13). The draft law is designed to improve the comparability of financial reporting information on a global scale (improved standards for the recognition, assessment and designation of financial reporting items in accordance with the requirements of international accounting standards); secondly, to improve the collection of research and development statistics, including using resources of the Electronic Declaration System of the State Revenue Service; thirdly, to improve the acquisition of data on the provision of construction services using the resources of the Electronic Declaration System of the State Revenue Service, which will facilitate the administration of state fees for registration activities in the register of construction companies; fourthly, to harmonise the requirements of the Annual Report and the consolidated annual accounts in the Law and Commercial Law. In the Commission, the draft law was supported and has been called for urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U84	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Annual Accounts and Consolidated Annual Accounts”. Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U85	I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U86	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Annual Accounts and Consolidated Annual Accounts! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U87	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 3 November of this year. Second reading: 11 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2310-U88	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 3 November and for consideration by the Saeima at its meeting - 11 November. Dear colleagues, As a result, we have reviewed the agenda for the first remote emergency session of 28 October 2021. Registration of the presence of Members. It's over. I'm closing this sitting. As you have received information, the Bureau has announced the second remote emergency session on 28 October. Let's go on in 15 minutes. I'm closing the sitting.
