ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! The session is ongoing on 2 September 2021. Reports by the Saeima Bureau on amendments submitted to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. Members Krišjānis Feldmans, Sandis Riekstins, Uldis Budriķis, Normunds Gunna and Jānis Cielēns have tabled a proposal on agenda item 31 (draft decision on the appointment of the Saeima Member Ainars Bauska to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption) and item 32 (d draft decision on the appointment of the Saeima Member Ainars Bauska to the Commission for Petitions) before item 27 of the agenda. Colleagues, do you have reservations about such changes to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. Draft decision submitted by Members Juris Juris Jušaks, Līva Kreituse, Ainars Baukše, Krišjānis Feldmans, Uldis Budrikis, Jānis Cielēns, Reinis Znotiņš, Evita Zālīte-Grosa, Normunds Gunna, Juris Rancāns and Sandis Riekstins – “On appointment of the Saeima Member Ainārs Bakša to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the appointment of the Saeima Member Ainars Bauska to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: ‘Sitting manager!’ ) Please vote mode! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Clementyev: “He doesn’t have. You hear me, Dagmar, he's not! He entered the hall without a certificate.’ ) Please see the result. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Nemiņš: “Sitting manager! I'm sorry!” ) No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Our fellow Member, who does not have a decision taken by the Presidium of the Saeima and the leaders of political groups, has come to the fore to produce. Please leave this Member to the Saeima Chamber. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Klementjevs: ‘Technical break! Interruption, let's go! Take a break!’ ) Please leave the Saeima meeting room. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “I’m sorry, can I be a procedure?” ; dep. A. Gobzem: “On procedure!” ) A technical break of 15 minutes. Preparing for remote operation. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U2	Dear colleagues, Please go back to your places. Technical problems have been addressed. We are continuing the work of the Saeima. We can see the draft decision submitted by Members Juris Jušaks, Līva Kreituse, Ainars Bauskis, Krišjānis Feldmans, Uldis Budriķis, Jānis Cielēns, Reinis Znotiņš, Evita Zālite-Grosa, Normunds Gunna, Juris Rancāns and Sandis Riekstins, “On the appointment of the Saeima Member Ainārs Baškis to the Commission for Petitions”. Please call me! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours Please! Name to Member Artus Neminis. ( Interface: “Go to the platform! ” ) Please turn on the microphone for Member Artus Neminiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U3	Good morning, honourable Members. Madam President, I have a request for a technical service. Since we have not worked so hard in this room for a long time, I ask the technical service to adjust the volume so that you can hear what you are saying, because we are hearing very badly here - not only in this flange, but maybe also in the second flange. So I ask the technical service to give a task to sort out more loudly so that you can hear what the debate is about at all. We don't hear what's going on, and that's not because of some lack of hearing, but because maybe something's been fixed somewhere. So please give this command now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U4	Now, I think I hear pretty well. We're still... Can't you hear that? ( Milestones.) You hear me? Maybe it's my voice. I'll speak louder. Thank you for your excuse, Mr. Neighbours. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the appointment of the Saeima Member, Ainars Bakša, to the Commission for Petitions! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. The next item is the reports by the Saeima Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. Draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 14 715 Latvian citizens “Vacation must remain voluntary””. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U5	Dear President, Colleagues! On 3 August this year, the Saeima received a collective application from 14 715 citizens of Latvia “Vacation must remain voluntary”. The initiative asks for a set of legal provisions to prevent discrimination based on the presence or absence of vaccination against workers in the public, municipal or private sectors. On 18 August this year, the Commission for Mandate, Ethics and Application of the Saeima listened to the author of the initiative, who expressed the view that compulsory vaccination against Covid-19 should not be allowed and should not prevent the holding of a referendum on this issue. The Commission decided to refer this initiative to the Social and Labour Commission of the Saeima for further evaluation. The Commission prepared a draft decision of the Saeima “On the way forward for a collective application by 14 715 Latvian citizens “Vacation must remain voluntary”. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U6	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, I'm a little confused. I had to ask you first of all whether we agree on this draft decision that we are looking at it today, in this sitting of the Saeima. Do Members have objections? ( Impressions: “No! None!’ ) There are no objections. This means that we are looking at it at the end of this sitting's agenda. Go on. The draft decision “On the way forward of the 14 186 collective application of Latvian citizens “Reducing VAT on food””. Are Members opposed to seeing it at this parliamentary sitting? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. We look at it at this sitting of the Saeima. The draft decision “On the way forward of the 10,237 Latvian citizens’ collective application “On the list of compensatory diagnosiss of migraine”. Are Members opposed to seeing it at this parliamentary sitting? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. The draft decision shall be placed on the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima. The draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 134 Latvian citizens’ collective application “Minimum salary of 630 EUR””. Are Members opposed to seeing it at this parliamentary sitting? There is no objection. The draft decision shall be placed on the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima. The next section The Parliament's agenda for the sitting of 2 September is the examination of Members' requests. Requests received by Members. Members Viktors Valainis, Uldis Augulis, Māris Kučinskis, Jānis Dūklavs, Janīna Jalinska, Jānis Vucans, Raimonds Bergmanis, Edgars Tavars, Gundars Dauge and Armands Krauze have submitted a request to Minister of the Interior Marija Golubeva “On serious threats to national security due to the long-term construction of the Latvian-Belarusian border”. Name for Member Viktor Valainis to give motivation. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U7	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Colleagues! Nice to see you all. That's the request. If the truth matches the information that is in public space, then a valid agreement has been in force since 2018, which the previous government has already begun. And now... Nothing has happened in two years to put the Latvian-Belarusian border in order to continue to execute the agreement. If something has happened that has to be broken, then the contract has to be broken. Otherwise, we are currently undertaking new procurement procedures, from the Slovenians... Slovenians give us a fence. At the same time, the State of Latvia has already, by nature, bought a fence that stands in Elizaine. The ten - mile [50 km] fence stands in Pureaine and looks forward to its use. I have a question: is there any interest in building that fence? Or is it simply simply that you want to earn quickly in this crisis situation? And this second option seems to be the most realistic in this situation. Therefore, colleagues, we have prepared this request. We are waiting for answers to at least dispel those myths that have now been voiced in public space, because the way it is, is not normal for us. If there was a wish to really sort this line, it should have been in order for a long time. Therefore, colleagues, I call on the Commission to work with full responsibility and, possibly with the involvement of the Minister, to examine this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U8	The request shall be submitted to the panel. Members Viktors Valainis, Armands Krauze, Edgars Tavars, Uldis Augulis, Māris Kučinskis, Jānis Dūklavs, Jānis Vucāns, Janīna Jalinska, Raimonds Bergmanis and Gundars Dauge have submitted a request to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On planned support for the purchase of wasteless vehicles”. Name for motivation to Member Viktor Valainis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U9	Colleagues! This is... On that overall background, when in recent years it is essential in Latvia! - public debt is rising and inequalities are increasing (these scissors are growing!) The State provides EUR 10 million in support of non-emission transport. A mode of transport that already has different support mechanisms! Both movement through Riga traffic lanes and free parking in the centre of Riga - these are essential (important!) bonons for those people who buy these cars. To think that this is the moment when the greatest help is needed for those people who are able to buy a car for 40-45 thousand euros... Colleagues, I call on you to reflect very seriously on this government decision and to provide an answer to what strategic vision then includes that we should now support - in addition to all the forms of support that we already have, there must be more support! - those people who may have such support only such a pleasant bonus, not more. Colleagues, I also call for this request to be examined and for the Minister to take part in the examination of this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U10	The request made by Members shall be forwarded to the Commission. The next item is the opinion of the Petitions Commission. We started to examine the opinion of the Requests Commission. Request of Members of Lubova Švekova, Julia Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Vjačeslava Dombrovska, Evija Papules, Alda Gobzema, Andra Kazinovska, Armanda Krauzes, Edgars Tatar, Viktors Valaiņš to the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania Mr. On behalf of the Commission, Ivars Puga, Member. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U11	Good morning, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. The Commission examined the requests made by Members Lubova Švecova, Jūlia Stepanenko, Karina Sprūdes, Vjačeslava Dombrovska, Evija Papules, Alda Gobzema, Andra Kazinovska, Armanda Krauzes, Edgars Tatar, Viktoras Valaiņš, Minister of Defence, to the Minister for Defence, Pābriks “On receipt of public order “SRC Brasa” outside the UB tender procedure” (No. 67/P13). Thus, the respect for the procedure of sewing uniforms for the Latvian National Armed Forces and the related legality, transparency and fairness of the competition, while avoiding waste of state funds. At the end of the sitting, Members voted: 3 for, 9 against, 2 abstain, 1 does not vote. And admits that this request must be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U12	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U13	Thank you. Very often, from the parliamentary tribunal, state officials declare loudly the importance of Western values, their unwavering follow-up and respect for them. But what we actually do is actually! - with respect for Western values in real life, including their implementation in the work of the ministry and the work of institutions subordinate to the ministry? The Ministry of Defence is responsible for the work of the Ministry of Defence, its rule of law is the political force for Development/About! We know that it is this political power that regulates and regulates the work of the Ministry of Defence. What about the fundamental value of the West - no (or zero tolerance) corruption, fraud and budgetary waste... What does it look like in the context of this procurement? Historically, if we look at it, the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit in 2019, dealing with the issue of the budget... public money... the use, drew attention to the sewing of clothes in the form of purchases and to the risks inherent in them. After a while - since the committee meeting in 2019... The Ministry of the Interior opened criminal proceedings in which it revealed the facts of fraud related to sewing of uniforms. Next moment. Given that one of the participants of the competition is suspected of fraud in the State Police Competition, the Ministry of Defence discontinued public procurement forms for sewing clothes in 2020 and, to say, closed the issue with regard to procurement. It took some time, and without a new... Promulgation, without the insertion of new public information on the winner in the procurement procedure, appointed (and the contract was concluded and published in the database) the SRC Brasa company, which had already been the subject of criminal proceedings against the State police in connection with the facts of fraud at that time. However, the contract was concluded and the money was transferred to this company. What follows from the response given by the Ministry of Defence to Members... Request to the Commission? These answers actually reveal a very interesting statement... and additional questions for the political force Development/About! who is responsible for the operation of this restaurant - what about zero tolerance for fraud? And now for information, data that make us think and that, in my opinion, indicates a deliberate, very incorrect or perhaps even corrupt action when concluding this procurement. The Ministry is founded on: The State Defence Logistics and Procurement Centre is obliged to provide professional service soldiers and landguards with a critical minimum of individual equipment, i.e. two battle-shaped outfit sets. The number of formal forms was sufficient, however, at the end of 2020 the situation appeared that there was a lack of turnover for the most demanding dimensions of the form of the battle – XS and S... The critical necessity of procurement was made... It turns out that the Saeima... since in September 2020 a decision on the participation of the soldiers of the Latvian National Armed Forces in the international operation led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation in Kosovo was taken and Latvia had to send soldiers to Kosovo. One of the shopping objects is the sewing of a new design camet uniform using the WoodLatPat, which has high quality standards and is capable of being provided by only one company. And it's SRC Brasa. In total, 12 thousand copies of equipment were ordered to ensure a critical minimum. And now let us bring together this information, which is not in this reply, but is publicly available in the database, and let us consider whether the arguments of the Ministry are valid at all. 6600 professional service soldiers, 8200 national guards and 3,000 spare soldiers, thus total 17 800 soldiers. 12 thousand copies were ordered - to provide a critical minimum for XS and S size. That is essential. The procurement also includes a new design order for soldiers in operation in Kosovo. There is, however, a nuance - about 170 soldiers are involved in this operation. The question is, therefore, why not buy as much equipment as is strictly necessary to ensure a critical minimum in an urgent procurement procedure? And finally - it's very interesting what really is WoodLatPlat's drone and whether, in the circumstances of the situation caused by Covid-19, we had to change the design of the camels so urgently and completely change the form of the army. According to the information provided to the public by the designer of design, the new camuflage article is an artificially created drawing based on the motives of the nature of Latvia. Currently, the Latvian National Armed Forces are more focused on the protection of their territory. And since the sensitivity of the various technical means and their use in the detection of masked objects has increased significantly, there is a need for a new camuflage article applied specifically to the geographical conditions of Latvia, which was also established in 2018. I am not a military specialist and I do not doubt the fact that the Latvian army must change uniforms, but I do not see the urgency and the need for a quiet agreement. I also admit that the geographical circumstances of Kosovo are different from Latvia and therefore participation in the operation is not justified by the organisation of urgent procurement, especially to the extent that exceeds the needs of the participants in the operation. Of all the above, only one can be concluded: there was no basis for urgent procurement, the contract was concluded with a company against which today the process is already being conducted... has been returned to the prosecution of the public prosecutor's office. Please support this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U14	We are continuing the debate. The name to Member Karin Scratch. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U15	Good morning, colleagues! Good morning! Are you awake? Are you okay? We have as much money as ever?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ( The box “Yes! ”) ) We can design... we are fighting a pandemic! ( Milestones.) Three million on XS dimensions! The beautiful design will save us from the virus - the deadly virus! People are dying... A pandemic! 200 million... We're gonna buy armored vehicles! It's nothing that Estonia won't buy them - a brother... but Latvians can learn and know. We have so much money! ( Interface: “Rolex! ”) ) 9 - for, 3 - against. Let's get it! The Estonians didn't buy it, we'll buy it! The Lithuanians won't buy, we'll buy! And we'll give the third vaccine to people! ( Internouncing call.) Let's vote! Let's vote! We support and spend money so that all our employees of NBS have an XS size with beautiful design! Money is as much as ever! ( Intercretion: “You, yes! ” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U16	I closed the debate. The debate was closed. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: “On the procedure!” ) Yes, please... Turn on the microphone for Jūlija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U17	Mrs Beitneres-Le Gallas, I wanted to remind you: there is point 76 in the parliamentary roll - if there is a noise or disorder in the sitting, the head of the sitting may call the order with a hammer. We can hardly hear anything at all in this line. I beseech you very much to use that hammer so that we can hear... and with respect to speakers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U18	Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “On procedure!” ) About the procedure? Please turn on the microphone for Artus Neighbour. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U19	Since the speech was certainly very important, please ask the Members to repeat what they said so that we all once again... may hear the important things that have been mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U20	Mrs Stepanenko, I take note of your reservation. I appreciate that we haven't met in person for so long and that people want to talk. But I really... I really respect that (Applause.) , but I would also ask more attention to the speakers. Let us show more respect for each other. Please, Mr Pugas, do you want to comment on behalf of the Commission after this debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U21	No, thank you, no comments, I just repeat... I recall that this request was rejected in the examination of the replies submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U22	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Lubova Švecova, Jūlia Stepanenko, Karina Sprūdes, Vjačeslava Dombrovska, Evija Papules, Alda Gobzema, Andra Kazinovska, Armanda Krauze, Edgars Tatar, Viktors Valaiņš, Minister of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania Mr. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 31, for - 51, for - 1. The request was rejected. Dear colleagues, We shall continue to look at the agenda - consideration of own-initiative proposals. I have a request: do we accept that Member Vitaly Orlov has already reported on this proposal, or do you want to hear it again? ( Milestones.) No, no. Then move to the debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U23	Hello, colleagues! Hello, Latvian society! Before I am excluded and probably thrown away violently from this medicine, I want to talk about compulsory and voluntary vaccination, the segregation of society and what is and what is not - trust science or trust the Constitution and the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. See, the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia says that everyone has the same rules, all are equal before the law. The Cabinet of Ministers also has a clear and unambiguous sentence above Krišjānis Kariņš' head, which Kārlis Ulmanis once said – “One law – one justice for all”. What is meant by “One Law - One Truth for All”? ‘ One law - one right for everyone - means one who wants, he vaccinates, who doesn't want, he doesn't do it. And that doesn't mean that someone who doesn't want to vaccinate is laid off from work, does not allow him to go to school, or does not allow him to enter the premises of the Saeima. This is not one law and one justice for all. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “The Saeima can with tests!” ) See, Krišjāni Feldman, the choice is made by adults and decision-makers, not by people who have the fear of making decisions based on the principle “One Law - One Justice for All”. And, following on from this case, which you were about, the New Conservative Party, I would like to mention the vaccination of children. The vaccination of children is not determined by politicians from the New Conservative Party, from Unity, Krišjānis Kariņš or Raivis Dzintars, as determined by the family doctor. The family doctor determines whether or not a person needs medical attention. This is not determined by politicians. It is not determined by those who have conquered power and are in this hall, smiling and thinking that it will be for ever. No distribution in schools between vaccinated or non-vaccinated persons shall be permitted. It's against the Constitution. The party I represent is called “Law and Order”. And we see that this Saeima no longer adopts laws; this Saeima is an application of the Cabinet of Ministers, a voting machine that has no opinion. This Saeima does not adopt laws that comply with the main law in Latvia - the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. A Constitution that says that all people are equal before the law. All regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, all decisions taken by Krišjānis Kariņš, where there are even critique segregations, must be repealed. All decisions of the Saeima Presidium, where there are any falls of segregation, must be repealed. And an example is the presentation of tests. If we talk about “Trust in Science!” Then, with confidence in science, it is clear that 95 percent of vaccinated members of the Saeima can get a community, but they do not show tests. Not only can they become covidal, they are very likely already suffering from syphilis or other infectious diseases. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Pouce’s intermediate call.) All of them. No, but maybe Yuri Puce, you are. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I (Laughter) Public services may not be refused or restricted on the basis of vaccination. It is a restriction on human rights, it is not allowed by the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia. And the Constitution must also be fulfilled by these insurers of power who are sitting here and laughing about Latvian society, laughing about the Constitution and wanting to introduce a tyranny, totalitarian regime without complying with the basic law of our country.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U24	Mr Gobzem, I call on you not to undermine the prestige of the Saeima. (Laughter) Please avoid such expressions in your speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U25	The prestige of the Saeima does not exist as a fact. This is the most unpopular Saeima of all time, which makes decisions which are not popular and which are not in the public interest at all. ( Internouncing call.) Juri Puce, I would like to see not only your negative cord test, but also the syphilis test! ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U26	There's no talk from the hall, please, Mr. Gobzem. Follow the line of order!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U27	But the problem that I would like to highlight in this speech is the following. It is clear that this Saeima will continue to adopt laws contrary to... contrary to human rights. This will be done by parties talking about an inclusive society. Development/About! Talking about an inclusive society, Unity speaks about an inclusive society, with foam on the lips defends the fact that diversity - it is some bonus - and at the same time, when people are different and have different attitudes towards health manipulations, totalitarianism occurs. Then this... this hunger for an inclusive society ends. You see, if we trust in science, there is only one thing that has been proven: the public is threatened not by unvaccinated people, but by those who control power, and those who are truly ill with some infectious disease. The fact of vaccination or the absence of that fact cannot endanger anyone. And that's why there's a great deal of dissatisfied in society with the Saeima, which makes regular decisions against the interests of the people. Dear Latvian society! I invite all of you to think and prepare for this winter... This morning. And it's not a joke, it's quite serious. I urge you to understand that our legislator will do everything to bring you, dear people who are watching and listening to this talk, to their knees. And it won't help any of your applications...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U28	Member Gobzem, I am very sorry, this is a little too much. Please do not disseminate such speeches about the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U29	Dear people!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U30	Mr. Gobzem!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U31	Dear people!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U32	This is the third reproof for you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U33	I use the word connection “lovers”. I cannot address Latvian society like this, Mrs. Le Gallas? I think I can address the Latvian public in this way. Dear people, the only way to stop compulsory vaccination... The only way to stop compulsory vaccination is that we will not only go on the streets (Interface: Mrs. Le Gallas, please follow the order of the sitting! )...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U34	I turned you off the microphone. I do not allow you to speak in this debate in the future. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U35	Why do you...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U36	I told you three times. That is point 7 of the Code of Conduct for Members, please read, yes: ‘The Member shall, in public statements, avoid words, gestures and other acts which may be offensive, and shall not take insulting or incompatible with the respect of the Saeima; shall be based on facts, on their fair interpretation and on their reasoning.’ Your debate is over. Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Gobzem: “I will apply again!” ) Name of Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U37	Good afternoon, everybody! Hello, colleagues! I think that this initiative is still relevant and important, namely that vaccination in Latvia must be voluntary. Despite the fact that the draft mandatory vaccination law has been suspended in the Saeima, we know that it has been stopped, not because the government has abandoned the idea of compulsory vaccination, but because it is looking for other ways, because it has understood that it will be very disadvantageous for the Saeima, because here in the Saeima there will be a debate, the Saeima will have to listen to the opposition's reasoned objections, on which this power has still not been able to provide meaningful explanations and justifications. And it is not good for power, because it enlightenes the failure, incompetentness and irresponsibleness of this power. We can already see how other roads have been marked. In principle, it was already known that this power would renounce its attempt to carry out this compulsory vaccination through the Saeima. It was already known a few weeks ago. We were just watching with interest how this power will try to get out of this situation, because you can say yourself that, you know, we didn't get back, we couldn't. Clearly, they called the President and ordered the President to open up to his constituents in order to fulfil what was necessary for this climax of power. As a result, what we are seeing is already marked by this new path in which compulsory vaccination will be implemented. So the obligation to vaccinate will be directed not through the Saeima, but by imposing... to decide by people on the ground: employers, heads of educational institutions. And as if the power itself said, "Well, you know, we didn't accept it, it was accepted, and here the man was, but we didn't do it. In particular, such a framework will be developed for the mandatory vaccination to take place. Yes, vaccination is an important tool to fight Covide infection, but it is not the only tool. Unfortunately, this weak, incompetent power does not see anything else. It reminds a bad driver who has sat down to the wheel to drive a car he doesn’t learn to drive a car (but in some way he’s got to the wheel), but he’s trying to do something. And now he sees that his car is approaching the ditch, but instead of taking the necessary manoeuvres, using the tools available to prevent the car from getting into the ditch, he's tangled into the corner, panicging, psycho, and that's all he can do. This is what we are now doing. Even though this power has a whole army of officials behind it, there are experts, this power is so weak, so incompetent, that it is not even able to set up the right tasks for experts in order to obtain the necessary solutions for itself, the necessary answers. Somewhere it reminds me of the situation from the popular Latvian film “Limousine in the color of the John Night”, where also the film’s main hero, Mirttante, had somehow been to the car, but she did not learn to drive this car. She had a car like this power. Thus, those in power today are given power, but they do not know how to deal with them. In that sense, Morttant was at least smarter and smarter. She could say, “Erikonkul, put it in the mouse – we will go to Riga!” This power cannot even tell experts. And as a result... You have seen the sittings of this government; you see that it is completely pointless. It is a real manifesto of incompetentness and failure that we should look at each time this power decides on something. And so to cover this, this psychosis is being created - in order to get the only instrument that can be understood by power, that is, compulsory vaccination. It is only from this context that I can understand these recent statements, which have emerged with regard to the healthcare system, that in a situation where 196 people are now hospitalised, as we know, there is an emergency that the healthcare system is not able to handle these diseases and that we must start to give up the compulsory and planned operations that sound as strange as possible, if we know that the critical level of the healthcare system has been assessed as about a thousand places, thousands of hospitalised, now - with 196 patients - suddenly no capacity. So there is the question: what has the power done all this time if we were told that millions are being invested to strengthen the capacity of the health system to prepare for the third wave? In this case, there are only two options: either this power deals with conscious disinformation, the creation of psychosis in society, or has done nothing negligently, and this money has been learned to something completely different, spent just as it was with other purchases, instead of really rationally dealing with this situation. There are several instruments that this power could and has not done. For example, ventilation of premises. We know this virus is spreading in the form of an aerosol. It has already been scientifically proven... there are already scientific studies demonstrating the level of air quality at which this infection can be prevented from spreading into the premises. And it has also been recognised by institutions that have authority for our power (such as, let us assume, the CDC, which is the analogue of our SPPC in the United States), which have determined the air quality at which the spread of this infection can be effectively controlled. What has our authority done, let us say, in schools? What was to be done is one of the solutions that had to be made for this power long ago with regard to the learning process, so that it can be done safely in person, rather than force people again to vaccinate themselves, to solve this issue of air quality and thus, by nature, to prevent the spread of infection within the premises, within the premises of training. Show me what this power has done, except that it's come up with... have taken care to purchase air quality meters. And that's all. It is also about explaining... This, I think, is a very real, very successful moment in that sense... that people who lack motivation to take care of their health begin to do so. I think that was what... Instead of making psychotic society an infection, this money would have been better invested in PR activities that would explain the need for a healthy lifestyle and how a person can protect himself. None of this is done. Instead, money is being spent simply on the creation of psychosis to prepare society for this compulsory vaccination. Here, I think there is a very good story you may have heard about... It's an allegory... that a man meets on the road to death, going to the nearby city, and he asks her: “What do you think you want to do?” She says, “I go to town.” And he says: “But this means taking people with you. How much do you intend to take a person?” - “Well, I mean to take some five thousand.” In time, death comes back from the city, and this man asks her: “I know you were in the city and you took, not five thousand, but 50 thousand.” And death says, “Yes, I planned to take five thousand, but the rest - up to 50 thousand - took fear.” And that's what this power is doing. This power by its actions, by its incompetent, irresponsible actions, with fear of taking responsible decisions is the main cause of the spread of this uncontrolled infection. It is the feeling that power is using this communal plague, not to fight effectively, but to learn taxpayers' money as much as possible under the cover of this plague as possible, to put it correctly from the parliamentary tribunal. We see pointless spending, where it goes by with total carelessness and senselessness. One remarkable example is the draft vaccination lottery law. Colleagues, I would therefore call on citizens to support the collective application for voluntary vaccination. And the responsible commission, which will look at this bill, I call upon you to ask me when they come, to tell you that, no, compulsory vaccination is still important, we must reject this popular initiative... Ask them what else they have done without this idea of compulsory vaccination, without this twilighting machine in the steering wheel for frightened, tired eyes... And the psychoses that are being created... What else have they done? Have they tried to use and how have they tried to use other instruments that would be more effective in limiting this plague and creating sustainable solutions, because in the end, we have to think about not how to get off these risks, but how to manage these risks. I understand that for those in power - for those in power and for those in incompetent - it seems something unrealistic, they can, maximum... I just... at best, hide under the tree as a bunny and wait until it wolves past rather than try to solve this situation. But in this way, we are destroying our own country, we are ruining the future of our own country, because this will not allow us to exist; we need to look for these solutions, how we can live with this challenge in a sustainable way. It won't go anywhere, it will continue. That is why what I am calling for is the Commission's responsibility to debate it. I call for support for this popular initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U38	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U39	Dear colleagues, Unfortunately, we are stuck - both the public and the Saeima - between two extremes. On the one hand, we have the Kovid's hysteria, on the other, we have the Covid's disproves. And unfortunately, what happens is some sort of play between those two poles. The greater the communion hysteria in the government (and the government seems to have been intercepted with the communion hysteria), the greater the hysteria is, unfortunately, also those colleagues who are aggivating against vaccination and, in essence, deny the communion as such. As I said, it should be noted that, unfortunately, the government has rather been taken over by the communion hysteria. What have we done in the last year? Can anyone here count all the restrictions that were adopted this year? Does anyone even remember all this? At full maximum. And what comes to it? We have borrowed, or we will soon borrow, an additional seven billion euros for next year. If we compare it with the year that this Saeima started to work. So maximum limits... This is certainly more than the maximum compensation and benefits for all sectors, including its sectors (especially its sectors!) , which have not been affected by the community, such as construction. During this Saeima, it will be plus seven billion euros. How, then, does the government intend to live another year in such a spirit? Take another seven billion? What we need, colleagues, is a sensible and balanced policy - what is in the middle between the comma hysteria and the denial of the communion. What we need to talk about, colleagues - what are the sensible solutions, how we can live with the community in the future, because we need to be careful about the fact that the number of people who are sick is now increasing. Let us take a look at Israel. Israel has long experienced what we will experience, and I think in time. It's simple mathematics. In Israel, the population is more than five times greater than in Latvia, the number of sick people, the number of infected people (at least a few days ago), was almost 11 thousand... new cases. What is it? We have 500. But at the same time, are Israeli hospitals overcrowded? It is interesting that the answer is - no. Even 11,000 patients in an Israeli hospital are hospitalized at only 751. And it is not that the vaccination rate in Israel is much higher than with us in Latvia. That's just 60 percent... 61. It's not much bigger. So it's a good question: if the number of cases is higher, but the number of people in hospitals with severe and moderate... Israel isn't as big, so what are they... What is the way forward? I believe that we must not talk about vaccination or vaccination, whether voluntary or not, but about concrete steps, how we can make the mountain of restrictions that we have created over the last year... on how to switch to a simple and reasonable system. And those next questions, as a minimum, are: First. We need to review what we do in schools. I think that it is a very good question whether the masks are really needed. If the virus spreads as an spray, then in a closed room for half an hour and all children will be infected - with or without mask. Is it necessary to spend EUR 30 million... more than... What about the tests? Very good question. There must be a review. The second point. We have in the country at least... more than 20 percent of the population have had a covidal overload but have not passed the test. Are they guilty of this? Did the government tell them a year ago, or did the legislator tell them that if you did not pass the test, then you would not get an interoperable certificate that would be needed to get the service? No, no. The government told them to stay home. So, just like in Lithuania, we need to adopt a regulation that allows for an interoperable certificate to be obtained for those people who have shrunk but have failed to pass the test. And here we are talking, I mean, at least... most likely there are some 15 percent of Latvia's population. In the economy, this is all demand; it is all people. If these people do not have the opportunity, so to say, to participate actively in the economy, then there will have to borrow more money to give them benefits and so on. Go on. Colleagues, as a whole, we should stop focusing on the number of new cases, given that infections can - and are now absolutely clear - also among those who have vaccinated, like those who have not vaccinated. These statistics become trivial. What is important, and what needs to be looked at, is the number of people entering hospitals in an average or heavy state. This, in my opinion, is becoming the only serious and meaningful indicator. That is why I call for an end to making circus both for those who are dealing with the society's hysteria and for those who are engaged in denying the community, because the circus is both one and the other, and to start talking about sensible, balanced and debated solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U40	Thank you to the Member for his constructive criticism. Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U41	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! On further progress of the Latvian citizens’ collective application “Vacation must remain voluntary”. Today they are no longer only 14 715 Latvian citizens, but already 51 883 Latvian citizens who have signed this initiative. What the previous speaker has already pointed out to some extent - I would not call it two extremes - I would call it two extremes who are currently ruling: these are vaxers, and they are antivacs. And in politics, unfortunately, it is the government with Krišjāni at the forefront of Karini and with the Minister of Health at the forefront of Daniel Pavilut. And in politics too, there's a second ditch, a second extreme. We can't jump on one leg, right or left. We have to stand on the ground with both legs, be realistic. We understand very well why Latvia is now one of the worst so-called vaccination rounds - then we declare that vaccination will be voluntary, then we say that it will be compulsory, then we make it compulsory, we say that it will be voluntary again, but no, then we will look for solutions to make it compulsory again through the Cabinet, and so on. Very many of these restrictions, the limitations of the Covid-19 pandemic, in people's eyes, are absolutely illogical, and that is what it is. We remember the first wave when society, society as a whole, really sat at home, called on each other: Stay at home, keep two meters, don't collect, don't talk to people, protect yourself! Everyone called for it - coalition, opposition, media; there were no antivacs or who... But at a time when the public sees a lot of illogical decisions, systematic decisions, one by one, starting with a pandemic... Economic restrictions, social restrictions, when one person on the mountain can be on 70 square meters, but on the Caka Street, which the liberal parties were drawn with the bikes, in the very winter... In the first duck of the community wave, people drive in the trolleybus for a couple of hours. Everyone knows it's not logical. And such decisions are systematic - one by one. And when we realise that interpretation no longer helps, we are looking for a way to force people to vaccinate, knowing well what the public is thinking of politicians - about everyone: about the opposition, about the position, especially about the government. People don't believe it, really, very much don't believe it. And if a Minister of Health comes, who has practically no public trust, and says, do it, many people do it, in spite of the opposite, completely, absolutely the opposite. What do we want to achieve with compulsory vaccination and with these political talks about compulsory vaccination? We'll make sure there's next pilots, home sittings. Let's go back to e-classes? We want to do this? I think none of us wants to achieve this. We often use our speeches... that we are looking towards the Nordic countries. Why, then, do we not look in the direction of the Nordic countries, why do we not take it and even simply write it from Denmark, how do they do it, how do they explain it? Yes, in Denmark, there is incomparably greater public support for politics, for the government, because in Denmark, a politician, if he promises before the elections or observes principles before the elections, is trying to make his promises even after the elections and is sticking to the same principles after the elections. If there are one, two, three mistakes, he resigns, he assumes this political responsibility, and society sees it and believes it. Therefore, I appeal not to follow any extremist who, hiding behind the slogan “Law and Order”, often in reality calls for irregularities and calls for irregularities, but also to follow an extremist who calls for the principle that mandatory - mandatory! - everything must be voluntary. I'm sorry, mandatory. No, it can't, it can't continue, colleagues! The rates of illness in our country will increase and this is why they will increase. We have to stand in the middle, give this area to professionals who honestly tell you what it means if you have not received a vaccine, what the consequences can be, how you can become ill and what it will mean for your health in the future, and if you have received a vaccine, what the side effects can be in one of a hundred or one of a thousand cases. But it is fair to tell people that people can weigh everyone for and against. Then there will be another result. People are very well aware of what is a fair answer. And if we don't know the fair answer, then we're also saying: we don't have any clarity at this point... whether we do not have enough accurate information, we do not know. People will understand it, not... catch direct lies. The same applies to these individual groups. We have talked a lot about our higher education. We've also divided students. We have divided people who want to learn in person. Compulsory or voluntary vaccination following all these decisions... system strings... Many families are actually divided, and many family members are not even talking about vaccination. There, too, we are divided, instead of uniting society, saying honestly what that means and what the solutions we have, and if we do not have our own solutions, then we take and simply write off from the countries where they work. It would be a lot, a lot better. And finally, about this whole pandemic plan. I am most concerned now about students, our children, because they will be those who will probably have to lead this country in 20-30 years' time. We're putting them in schools right now... many... wear masks from call to call. And not only within an hour, but - into and out of school. Many children say they find it hard to breathe at the end of the day. If he pulls this mask under his nose, a conscious, legitimate educator requires him to put that mask back on. The child goes out into the toilet between time to breathe out. Is that normal? For young children who have a growing body that develops the lungs... Is that normal? We buy air meters in classes. Very good thing is the air meter, but do we measure what's going on under the mask? We can measure the air quality on Liberty Street, but if we have to breathe at the exhaust system of the car, what is the air quality there? Think about it, colleagues... Think of our children! And if at some point it seems that vaccination must be voluntary, I would say that in no case... that it must be mandatory, I would say that it must not in any case be mandatory, it must be voluntary. We need to explain and give the answers that we know what we do not know, and we need to work with vaccination centres too, and we need to work there too. We have to work with family doctors who tell people honestly... they must not be stimulated by giving extra money for each person who has been vaccinated. No, no! To work and honestly tell the public that family doctors are objectively interested in providing the truth, not to achieve the result... that as a result, if the patient receives the ankle, the family doctor at the salary has a certain amount of money. That is not right either. The Institute of Family Doctors must be involved much, much more actively. That's what the opposition's on... in fact, our colleagues have been pointing out for a long time. That is why, my fellow Members, I really call for support for this public initiative, in fact, already 51 883 people, our citizens, have signed up to it. We take it next week with the power of the law, and we are honest with our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U42	The name to Member Ralph Nemir. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U43	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Colleagues! For the sake of accuracy, this is a collective application and was then signed by 14 715 people. Six more people have signed it since the previous speaker spoke. This means that there is an extremely high public interest in this application. And we need to be honest in order to explain the very basic principles. So, in fact, this is about compulsory vaccination. For the sake of precision, it should be said that compulsory vaccination does not take place - no one is obliged to pluck or pluck - but it is essential for this application to assess what conditions we want to create for people in order to increase the coverage of the vaccination. It is fair to say that there are different people - those who can vaccinate and those who cannot because of health conditions. There are also people who do not want to vaccinate for religious or other reasons. The desire of these people, colleagues, must also be respected. At a time when this application will come to the Commission if it comes - my fellow Members, I call on you to refer this application to the Commission for evaluation -, very important things should be reviewed. The application of the principle of equality must be examined. And in this case, the principle of equality means that... Why... More specifically, this principle raises the question: why is it directly applicable to one social group, to another or to a third group of workers? The second question. A proportionate application of the rules of law. Would a person be laid off because of a lack of vaccination or, more precisely, because of a lack of vaccination? Because dismissal - in fact, it's the same, the same, the most extreme means... an effect agent. Here we could also talk about increasing testing and possibilities for testing. If we look at existing tests... What's happening to us with schools? Success is certainly different, we see. So, of course, there are also opportunities for self - testing. Self-tests in other countries of the European Union are implemented. And we have to trust the public. The self-testing process can also be monitored by schools (e.g. one of the responsible officials, who should simply be specified in the Cabinet Regulations). The principle of legitimate expectations. The principle of legitimate expectations requires that those who have concluded an employment contract... When they closed it... The employment contract and the Labour Law set out the conditions under which implementation may terminate an employment relationship. Compulsory vaccination... Non-vaccination of a person - in this case, it is also necessary to assess whether this is applicable, a sufficient condition to talk about the termination of the employment relationship. Finally, colleagues, I call for attention to be paid to the principle of proportionality. The principle of proportionality also requires that the Commission should assess whether the fact of non-vaccination would be the basis for the dismissal of a person from work, its fundamental rights and fundamental freedoms as defined in the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for this collective application to be referred to the Commission for evaluation and to take into account the principles laid down by our laws and regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U44	Thank you, Mr Nemir. Mrs Stepanenko, will you have seven minutes? It's not serious. In that case, we must prepare for the break. However, before the break, I want to ask all of us to stand up and welcome all of Sergey Dolgopolov, who celebrates this month's very beautiful anniversary. (Applause) Dear colleagues!... I request the registration of the presence of Members. Please register. Thank you. Registration is over. Name to Inese Voika, Member of Parliamentary Secretary - reading of results. And the name to the Member, Kaspars Girgen, for a statement to the Members. Please, Mr. Girgen! ( Pause) The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Agešina’s intermediate call.) Are you withdrawing the notification?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U45	Dear colleagues, unfortunately, the statement will be 12.30 p.m. Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Clementyev: “Speak everything!” ) All right. I would like to remind my colleagues once again: at 12.30 - a meeting in the Red House to support patients with rare diseases in the group. The other Members are also welcome to join this group, which is very important for many citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U46	Colleagues! Not registered: Jānis Ādamsons, Aldis Blumbergs, Uldis Budriķis, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Ivans Klementjevs, Rihards Kols. ... okay, Rihards Coll, Ieva Krapāne... Now you are, but you weren't registered... Līva Kreituse, Ināra Mūrniece, Romanas Naudiņš, Ivans Ribakovs, Inguna Ribena, Edvins Snore... And... And Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U47	Thank you to Mrs Voika. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U48	Dear colleagues, please have a seat. We keep sitting after the break. We can see the draft decision “On the way forward of the 14 715 collective application of Latvian citizens “Vacation must remain voluntary”. Ms Jūlija Stepanenko will take the floor in the debate. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U49	Dear colleagues, I think that it should stop playing with terms. Everyone already understands that we all, we and you, understand that there is no voluntaryity like that. Like in 2015, when some forgery put the term ‘voluntary reception of refugees’... This then resulted in compulsory allocation. The same is true now. And actually... If we look at it... In our lives today - in a free country, in a legal state - only a few forced mechanisms have been left. And such coercion mechanisms... of course, always involves either police forces or bailiffs. But in this case, of course, it is not about compulsory vaccination, as many of us have explained. However, in forced cases, no one is required to pay taxes, just at one point you have a statement that your debt has reached a certain amount, you have to pay a fine, and there are also legal consequences if you fail to do so. And in this case, it is exactly the same! The same is true with this medical manipulation, which many still love to call on a voluntary basis. To call it voluntary vaccination - it's simple (the grass noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) ridicule for people because voluntary vaccination no longer exists, for example, for hairdressers, beauty service providers. By the way, I think 98 percent of them are women, and they are women who often struggle on their own for the survival of their family in material terms, trying to earn a living for their children. Therefore, those who declare that they stand up for women's rights should think very strongly about who they are harming in this regard. There are no voluntary vaccinations for students who talk to each other every day about how many hours they have left before the lectures and how many hours they are waiting for a test where the transfer of this test will be faster and where these responses can be obtained faster than the transfer of this test. That is exactly how much it costs to go to lectures, even though students who pay for training have, of course, also paid for it. There are no voluntary vaccinations for those who need to undergo a test to go to work. We know that voluntary vaccination is no longer available to those members of the Saeima who, by decision of the Saeima Bureau, have been denied access to the Saeima sitting room if they have not been vaccinated or crushed. And we know that there have also been cases of addressing individual workers and humiliating them. ( A humiliating humiliation.) And that is what decision-makers want - they want, of course, to put all the blame on those people who want to decide on their own health; they want to humiliate those people who still choose to protect their children, their teenagers from this manipulation, which is still not very clear. Why not? Because you, honourable decision-makers, still have no clarity as to whether the third dose is needed or not and how it will work. It is also, of course, not clear to anyone what happens after vaccination with health and how those people who, within a certain period of time after receiving this manipulation, have felt bad or... even left this world. In this respect, of course, we hear different conclusions, and such conclusions must be examined. Such conclusions need to be examined, and there needs to be a very serious investigation. Of course, we know that there are also cases where teenagers try to get some chance to study further or... for example, go abroad to study or work... and that they are required to have this paid-up vaccine. When they fear the specific vaccine they are allowed to receive, they deliberately choose another one, one that is not appropriate for them. They are aware of their risk and take responsibility, and that is just because they have to do some work; just because they have to go to school; because the conditions are created that they cannot follow their dreams without this vaccine. And the circumstances are created by decision-makers who still say that this vaccination is voluntary. Colleagues! I followed the sitting chaired by Andris Skride yesterday and this draft decision was discussed for the second time at that meeting - that vaccination should be voluntary. Today, we are looking at this issue for the third time. And for the third time, this draft decision will come back to Andra Skride. And we know that the majority of the members of this committee have a great deal of confusion about why they have to decide on it at all, if it is clear to everyone that it is voluntary. And Members are starting to argue with one another that it is not their competence, that it is to be seen by Mr Rancán or by someone else. However, it is clear that Members are afraid to make decisions because, as we have seen, the decision that this issue should be referred to the Ministry of Health was made solely. This was done by Skride alone, saying that this decision is passed on to the Ministry of Health, and closing the sitting very quickly so that no one else can say anything. This is unfortunately the case. And, of course, it is very good that these sittings are now also recorded video and audio, and anyone who wants to see them can then see how the Members of the Saeima make decisions. And many people had eyes on several sittings. Many had eyes opened, because they really lived in such illusions - thought that Members were already making decisions, weighing all 'for' and 'no' and receiving very detailed and professional information on every issue. However, while watching and listening to the recordings of sittings, it can be seen that when deciding on children's masks, decision-makers do not even know that children in individual schools during the entire study process, all day long, cannot leave the school to breathe and that they have to have eight hours with these masks on their face. So long to be in the mask - it can't be afforded by the chairman of the Saeima sitting - every one and a half hours in the district and then change between themselves. If such decision makers now decide on the fate of the people, it is no wonder that people are writing letters - and they are writing hundreds of letters! - to knock on Members and explain to them how they really live today and how these decisions affect the lives of every person. Vaccination has long been voluntary. And, of course, this decision will be taken out and laughed at by the Skride Commission - as it has been up to now - for the first and second time. But, people, please continue to sign this ManaBalss.lv initiative so that this initiative comes back to the Saeima every week. I know you can do that. Dear Latvian society! Keep doing this. And we will talk about it in every sitting so that these votes will become quieter and that true Members will finally start to listen to and understand what is happening behind the door of the Saeima building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U50	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U51	I have an assistant, as a Member of the Saeima. For most Members and assistants of the Saeima. My Saeima Member helped my father die after the vaccine. Of course, as always and in all cases, it was not the fault of the vaccine. My friend, a close friend, a very close friend, died after the vaccine. And it was just a coincidence, because vaccines never have side effects, because vaccines are a miracle that always works better than ibuprofen. The side effects are for all other medicines, other medicines; the other side effects are for everyone else; the exception is vaccines. Another friend of mine... Thank God, he didn't die. Such a spyant tant who goes without a stick on the fourth floor. She saw Panorama, listened to the safe vaccine and went to vaccination. And, of course, at a time when we had to talk about the blood clots that she had then and the fear of dying - then, of course, this opinion was blocked by the sock because the vaccines have no side effects. Vaccines are suitable for everything - always and everywhere. They are fit for everything. And vaccinated people, of course, if they trust in science, don't get sick in any country and never get any infections again. As a mountain, they enjoy eternal life and eternal health. And that, of course, is not true. This is not true because human health has nothing to do with whether or not a person has vaccinated. Human health has to do with the way he lives. Whether he is fattened, obese, or he is drinking, smoking, or otherwise ruins his health. Whether his mental health condition is afraid of everything and always, or - to live, to rejoice, to love. And that has been the case for thousands of years. And only this year suddenly we realize that there are doctors in this hall who I think should take away medicine... certificate, because they're fearing people. The doctor’s task is not to be afraid, but to calm down, because only peace treats; good feelings, good emotions treats rather than fear. Forced vaccination is a fear. It's totalitarianism. And you, an artist, support this totalitarianism, even though you always talk about freedom at your Academy of Arts. You will vote in favour of totalitarianism. And then you'll show those doctors, those big monkeys, all of the public, saying that you're part of the community unvaccinated. Think about it, honourable artist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U52	We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U53	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, As a part of you, however, you do not want to recognise that vaccination is compulsory, but it is made compulsory by various methods and false moves. There are already a number of professions where only vaccinated people can work; thus, others are denied access to employment. When speaking here a week ago, the President pointed out - yes, this law is not appropriate, we will throw it out, but it is necessary to adopt new laws that would enable the Cabinet to determine the professions in which it is obliged to vaccinate. And such professions have already been marked - they are social care workers, teachers, medical professionals and various other service providers, including those working in public catering. Thus, in principle, it can be extended to any profession, preventing a person from working. If, at all, it fails to get people out of work, as was intended, then it is the next tricky move - it is forbidden to move in public transport. But that's so simple: if a person is not allowed to move, how will he go to work? Not everyone has their own cars to go to work with. Students are denied the opportunity to study - not only they are demanding covid tests, but there is no need for a free test, a fee test, and only then they will be able to study by 10 October, and after 10 October this opportunity will also be denied. If we look at the coverage of vaccination in other countries, such as Israel, we see that Israel has now reached its highest duck ever since. British researchers have acknowledged that there will be no collective immunity, as vaccinees also become ill and continue to become ill, and vaccinees are unfortunately dying. An analysis of UK studies and data shows that between 2 and 15 August the incidence of death among vaccinated people under 50 who are infected with the community is three times... four times as high as non-vaccinated subjects. For persons over 50 years of age... die more often than 50 years of age. Who is responsible for the side effects of the vaccine if they occur? Of course, no one recognises this and will say to everyone: prove that it is from the vaccine. Thus, a person who experiences health problems after receiving the vaccine must undergo a long line of medical examinations for his money. For example, if a magnetic resonance is required, then a paid state is offered at least six months later. Six months later, there will be no such need for someone who has already had a micro stroke. The person has to pay for this investigation by his own means, and it costs EUR 188. And it's just one of those events that a man has been prescribed by a doctor... and whose need for human treatment is very likely due to vaccination. We are only talking about mortality, which is linked to communion cases, but it is not analysed that overall mortality is increasing in our country, although there is a decline in the population. For example, in January this year, the number of deaths (excluding deaths due to Covid-19) has increased by 400 compared to last year; in June more than 100 cases. Is there an analysis of, and explanation of, the reasons why mortality is increasing in our country and the increase in mortality from diseases such as vascular disease? We have invested hundreds of millions in healthcare. What is the return for that? Where is this money spent? Is hospital capacity increased to be ready for new challenges? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Nemiņš: “We are talking about progress! For the way forward!” ) Will we be able to provide accommodation, or will we say after the first 12 cases of the community that our healthcare system has collapsed? And a little bit about statistics. If a person may have died of the vaccine, it is said that there is no conclusive evidence that the death was due to the vaccine. However, if death is due to Covid-19, a possible or laboratory positive case of Covid-19 is sufficient. And when I asked the Cabinet what exactly the clean case of the community in hospitals was. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) The answer was, then, that we have very few cases of net cohabitee; the rest are only related to cohabitee, such as childbirth (the birther is sick with cohabitee) or injuries, and so on. Therefore, please support the fact that vaccination must be purely voluntary and not manipulated by terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U54	The name is Digit Schmidt. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U55	Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! I will allow me to remind you once again of what Mr von Bismark has said in the past, namely that politicians are thinking about the next elections, and the public officials are thinking about the next generations. Crises such as this - a pandemic or a major natural disaster, or, by God, war - are a tragedy and a challenge for every nation and nation. And the nations that are matured for the nation and beyond for their country are separated from others by the fact that at such moments they are able to agree; they are able to agree, not divide; they are able to support one another and together overcome such crises. And I invite you to remember what the mood we had here in the Saeima sittings about a year and a half ago, when the pandemic began. There was, of course, concern about what awaits us all, our people and our nations, but there was also unity. There was a great deal of unity in this Chamber - there was no position for a moment and no opposition, there were 100 members of the Saeima who wanted to do it best for their nation and country. We supported the first decisions of the government, which were, by their very nature, sensible. Even if something was wrong there, we all supported them anyway and actually gave them a very large mandate - we, all 100 Members who are here. A year and a half later, when we meet again at the Saeima's meeting room, we are, as we say, realigning the country that we have broken down - which we have broken down! And I say “we”, because I'm just as responsible. If I have not been able to convince myself to do so, my responsibility is the same as that of those who may not listen. And what happened during that year and a half? We started to split. First of all, the right view to overcome the pandemic could only be a coalition, none of the opposition. We split up entrepreneurs, we ignored business organisations; we divided them - at least initially - into those who will have support and those who will not have support; then we adjusted it, but bitterness remained. We split families. After all, we have divided even children: Class 1-3 does not have to carry masks, Class 4-8 - yes. Then - carry to those whose parents choose whether they are vaccinated or not. Not their choice, but their parents' choice. What's our name? To overcome a pandemic or to divide people and each of us could make a political career on one of the sides of this divided society? I call on you to remember where we were and in what mood we were in this room a year and a half ago. It's never too late to come back to it. Unfortunately, the pandemic has not ended. We see that it is reinvigorating, and we do not know, honestly, when it will end and how it will end. Finally, coming back to what Mr.Oto von Bismark said, I appeal to those who believe that their task, if I may say so, is to split up and make political capital at the expense of it: remember that you may have to split up, but even win the next elections - not. And even if any of you get into this room, what will you then do to win? Ko 14. At the first sitting of the Saeima you will do with a broken nation... and risk? As you say, a nation receives a nation that is mature for it. We have very high risks not only in relation to the pandemic, but also in relation to everything that happens outside Latvia and that directly affects us. And there can be nothing better for our opponents than one broken nation, where someone gets from it internal and external joy. I ask you to remember where we were and to come back to it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U56	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U57	Hello, dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, What is the draft decision about? It seems to me that I will not be wrong if I say that this Saeima, this parliamentary term, has very rarely rejected or has not given the Commission an initiative put forward by citizens for further consideration. I therefore intend, and I also call on it, that this initiative should also be explicitly supported and referred to the Social and Labour Commission for further evaluation, which is also provided for by the draft decision drawn up by the Commission on Mandates, Ethics and Applications. That, I think, will definitely happen. And there will be no difference between nationalists, Conservatives or the left, all votes in favour. A little bit about the substance. When we looked at the administrative territorial reform in this hall a year and a half ago, it became clear that the pandemic that took place on the Asian side, unlike the previous time, began to affect the life of Europe, including Latvia, members of the glasshouse looked to the leaders of the state and hoped that they would fight the battle that is approaching Latvia, including by protecting the life of every Latvian citizen in a reasonable way. After the war, everyone's smart. Unfortunately, I must inform you that the war has not ended and that the battle has also had various results. There have been battles that have been won, there have been battles that have ended with great losses on all sides, but the battle is continuing and will come new. I call for the position to be taken in Parliament, which is the saying 'Everything is smart after the war', because we are talking about just a few battles at the moment and the war has not yet ended. Almost 2600 people died of this infection in Latvia, including 5.4 percent of all infected people in social care centres (at the time of the respected previous minister), 9400 cases of infection, 511 clients, who were in direct public care, were often unable to act. Therefore, dear colleagues, I come to the question of morals, which is the most important issue. It's about morality in this matter. I agree that it would be very beneficial to increase political capital to deal with the worsening of various issues, the manipulation of facts, the dissemination of false news, including from this parliamentary tribunal. I fully agree that black political technology would say that it is necessary to do so. In the fight for power, all resources are justified. I will go back to my original idea that there is also a need to think about morality in this matter. Or every Member... Is that so? I must agree with Mr Dombrovskis, who asked a rhetorical question here: what have we done? And I have to say: I have to think about what Mr Dombrovskis has done precisely to save the lives of Latvian people in this war. On the whole, however, it is clear that we will still have to take various unpopular steps and make unpopular decisions. And you can only thank God, this is a health crisis, not some serious threat to national foundations, such as the conventional war, because I would be very interested in what the debate in this Saeima would be like. And then we should make very unpopular decisions. I call for the red lines for each Member's personal understanding to be respected, of course with regard to moral understanding. I am not surprised that more than 95 per cent (or at least 95 per cent) of the Saeima Members have, by the way, been vaccinated, because obviously it cannot be denied that the Saeima Members are one of the most informed parts of society in Latvia. So you have a moral obligation to have objective information why almost everyone in this room has run into vaccination... and some former ministers even did so as soon as possible (Dep. V. Agešins: “Yes, out of line!” )... out of line. Obviously, this has some factual basis why such decisions were made and why these people... and why was it then that members of the Saeima also used this opportunity to be informed. Such facts must be made known and it is your duty to make them known to your own elite. I can answer for myself that I do what I can. If someone asks me, I'm also trying to explain. And I completely assume that many people, including people I know, will not always agree with the decisions that need to be made in a crisis situation. That is why it is already called a crisis. In this case... This is already the third time that we are looking at this initiative, because in general... the same initiative has objectively been signed by a large number of people, it seems that over 46 thousand citizens, which is not to be ignored. It only points to the need for more information to the public. Society as a whole must also be respected, both by those who are less informed and those who are more but not by those who manipulate information for selfish purposes. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Papule: “All people must be respected! Whatever. Everyone must respect!’ ) Therefore, given the people's strong support for this initiative, which is objectively the case (likely to be almost 50,000, it must not be ignored), it must pay full attention, including in the Commission on Social Affairs and Labour. And, of course, this draft decision must be supported, which I also call for. At the same time, I have a duty - unlike all those who spoke and only continued to exacerbate this issue... I have to say that in the Saeima at the moment (which concerns the Saeima... we are currently in the Saeima and are talking about the work of the Saeima) this issue is not relevant, because, as we know, the draft law in question, which, as it turned out later, is not necessarily necessary, has been put on hold. ( Milestones: “What is it? ” “Ai, ai, ai!” ) In this regard, I also, of course, have a wish for the lawyers of the executive - to get acquainted with the laws and regulations in force in the future and not to put the Saeima in a bad situation. But what about that. The next battle, the previous one, hopefully, will not be forgotten. I call for support for the draft decision. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U58	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U59	Dear colleagues, I am not going to talk about morality, because I think that no single Member has the right to talk about it. And I'm not going to do it either. (Applause) I want to talk about the very nature of the application. In my view, this submission does not mainly speak of concerns and resistance to compulsory vaccination, but it is a public concern, a signal of two things. The first is the general crisis in the healthcare system. It has a number of signals, not only from the area of the community's fight, but also from others. Personally, I do not understand how last week a patient who was placed in Stradins' hospital with heart problems could spend four hours in the reception room before he was placed in the Chamber... or another decision was made - to move him to another health institution. It is a crisis in the healthcare system. The second thing is that society is not satisfied with what is being done and how it is done in the fight against co-infection. This is the signal, because even objective data show that vaccination is an important instrument, a sensible instrument, but not a comprehensive instrument. If you look at statistics on those people who have come to hospitals with a diagnosis of co-infection, there are those who have gone out of vaccination. Vaccination must be done? I have to do it. How? And here's the first question, which appears in society and, I think, here during the debate - how campaigning is taking place (this is the wrong word in this case), clarification work on how and who needs vaccination, because it is built on a very simple and primitive construction: vaccination - it is good, not vaccination - it is bad and it is harmful to society. But people are not told what the vaccine is, the vaccination process; how one vaccine is different from the other; how the initial examination, a medical examination before a person decides to vaccinate with his doctor; what are the side effects or side effects from the vaccination - possible, impossible... and so on, and so on. This conversation should be based on the fact that the listener, the other side, in this conversation is a man, a man of thought, not someone, forgive me, an uneducated, incomprehensible person. We need to be serious about building our speech on a serious foundation in this case. The second question. Several times it was said that the main thing that would be... Key Tool... no means, it is the wrong word, the main place where all vaccination should be concentrated, is the practice of family doctors. And literally just a month... - It's a little salty... back the Minister for Health said: yes, here is an advantage to this type of vaccination. This was already the case when all its negotiations on the establishment of a vaccination office, on other bureaucratic structures, began. But with one administrative decision - to transfer this process only to family doctors - is very little, very little, because if you look at the practice of family doctors in real life today, no practice is appropriate to organise this process to make the primary level of health care more modern - one that meets current requirements. There needs to be more investment, more transformations, including administrative changes. Let us say, if you look at what is the basis of the payment mechanism for family doctors - this is the number of patients, not the quality of work. Family doctors must also provide helpers in such numbers and to the extent that they are able to perform their functions in full, as this requires... I do not really like this word, but a certain reform in the practice of family doctors, making the primary level a key level. And the third one, which should be discussed today, too. It is a question of people being very afraid not even of vaccination itself, but of their freedom... the feeling of non-vaccination, the consequences of failure to do so. This is what we are talking about today. What does that mean? This means that in no case can there be talk or talk about the fact that if a person has not been vaccinated, he should be dismissed from work, that there should be special groups, which (as the President of Latvia said, should not be provided for in the law, but that the Cabinet of Ministers should make the vaccination mandatory). There is a need to develop other instruments and other means of combating co-infection, which is extremely important today. Speaking of the application itself. I appreciate what the Commission on Social and Labour is doing, but the question is: why is this appearing and the discussion taking place here in Parliament's walls, not in the Commission's premises? Because this issue is painful and interesting to society and what results from this discussion is important not only for the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, but above all for the Cabinet, which plans, organises and implements this work. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U60	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U61	The President of the sitting. Colleagues! First of all, I would really like to say thank you to Krišjānis Feldman, who, in my opinion, is the only one of the coalition's stature today and has explained his position in some way, perhaps also his group's position on this issue, which is the problem that is missing today. It's the fact that it's from Development/About! which is directly responsible for health, you are not participating in this debate today. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (M. Bondar’s intermediate call.) And it's bad, it's bad. We'll have a chance... We will also have the opportunity to analyse what Daniels Pavļuts has done or has not done (this will be in a week's time), but today this issue, which has already been signed by about 50,000 Latvians, requires answers from every political force, thus showing some kind of respect for those people who have signed... and expressed this attitude in some way. But today, looking at and listening to these speeches, of course, is... Unfortunately, there are these tragic stories, and I would really like to join - this number - 2595... these are the tragedies that have happened as a result of this pandemic, all of them the tragic stories of life that have been. And the fact that we're already... restrictions, yes, yes... As if life is going on in some way, but at the same time people who need help... Two large hospitals have now limited their services, so they have to take this situation very seriously, because anyone who needs some kind of planned operation has this little tragedy, but yet a tragedy because they cannot receive it right now. Indeed, society has polarised - both in favour and against - by other colleagues in my opposition, but unfortunately this cannot be achieved with these mandatory obligations. I have full confidence that these decision-makers, who are... originally with the government level... Indeed, they are free from reality, do not communicate with people, and do not speak to people who are against this vaccination. I have done so - I have spoken to both medical staff, pre-school teachers and teachers who are against this vaccination. And believe me, neither I nor Daniel Pavluts, nor any Infectologist or doctor at the scale of this disinformation that is currently in the country, how much the public has mixed their minds, how much has there been inexplicable government decisions that they have later admitted about mistakes... In these circumstances, it is not possible to convince this person of any opposite view, that however vaccination is the direction in which to go. And if they're forced to do it with power, they're just... automatically says that the EUR 400-500 they receive when working at a pre-school institution... they may go to another place where they will not be required this mandatory obligation, they may choose to leave Latvia to another country where they will not be required this mandatory obligation, and there are such opportunities. Therefore, colleagues, when talking about these forced mechanisms, remember those people. And it's not their fault that they have such a position today, they can't be blamed. The scale of disinformation is extremely high. Of course, we can show these statistics, and I have the deepest belief that time will come and... People will vaccinate more and more over time, but this cannot be done on the same day on a blow. We have not done so in a year's time; we cannot achieve this either by imposing such compulsory vaccination. And why am I talking about this today? Because despite the fact that such a proposal has been received from Latvian citizens today, the government continues to follow this path. The government continues on this path, and this approach to the basic needs of the population... so that they can live daily, work... Public transport. Well, imagine, people living in Purvciems, Plavnieki, whatever... What happens there in the mornings! These people are moving... Riga Vice-President Vilnis Ķirsis has already said that it is physically impossible to do so. I think that every thoughtful person who has ever used public transport in some way, who went from Purvciems to the center at eight o'clock in the morning, is clearly aware that no controls can be made there. How is this possible? How can one imagine making such a decision? How do you intend to control this situation now? We saw that these buses were overcrowded all year, because people simply had no other way to get to work. And now come with such decisions - that now, please, only vaccinated or... those who can present this certificate... Colleagues, it is now the same compulsory vaccination mechanism: you will not be vaccinated, you will not be able to drive public transport. They don't get to work this way. And is that the right thing? Do you really think you're not going to get any sort of opposites? On the contrary. You will get that people will begin to ignore Latvia's laws, which they already do. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Bhutan’s intersages.) Therefore, my fellow Members, I call on you to really take these mandatory obligations very seriously. Doesn't it seem strange to you that students take a year off now, they take academic years... are academics taking? Is that normal for you? Do you really... Try talking to these students! That's why they don't vacate... Try to convince at least one student to do so. Today it is very difficult to do, perhaps in some cases impossible, because these reasons are deep in person, in many different ways. This takes time. I call for the people to be given this time, to be more informed, to explain and really talk to the people, rather than to engage in forced stick mechanisms, which are actually being implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U62	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U63	Dear colleagues, The morals here speak of those people who probably didn't understand anything about morals in their lives - neither sounds nor words. However, this is a normal practice. We've heard a lot of stupidity. From this parliamentary troupe, too, from members of the coalition. We heard such words that if there were war, it would be even more difficult for us. I accept that the Member who spoke certainly has his own plan in the event that something like this happens, and this plan will not be the salvation of people, most probably not. Colleagues! We heard, yes, also the opinion of the opposition Members, that we should try to in some way persuade those people who refuse to give up vaccination, and the same we also heard yesterday at this committee meeting, where more than 50,000 signatories were offered to read a seminar on the importance of vaccination. It must be said that these people did not sign up for a seminar. They sign for the power and decision-makers to just leave them alone... simply calms down and lets you live a normal life. Colleagues, I will give you another example that this vaccination is not voluntary at any time. We received news about the organisation of youth football games in the 2021 season. In discussions with decision-makers - between the Latvian Football Federation and government representatives - one of the criteria, know what? You know the full vaccination course! And this already applies to young people! This applies to young people who dream of achievements in sport. This is now the greatest indignation that these cynical decision-makers, who tell us about morality and who have not even consulted with lawyers, directing such destructive and ineffective draft laws, and trying now on the back door of the farm... in some way through the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers to ensure that we are subjected and humiliated. Colleagues, this really is no longer a story of voluntary vaccination or health care. This is a story about freedom and about the human dignity that we now want to take away those who have lent power for a very short time and who no longer have this power, because any voter who has voted for the New Conservative Party (almost anyone except those two or how much remains there) will say that it is regrettable that Krišjānis Feldman tells him today about the morals of the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U64	The name of Member Regina Lochmele. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U65	Hello, colleagues! I am the person who is absolutely consciously convinced that vaccination alone is the only way to really stop this pandemic, but I am strongly against the fact that this vaccination would be achieved with negative incentives and forced variations. I am strongly against people being vaccinated simply because they are threatened with dismissal, some form of repression or because they will no longer be able to use public transport. That last, of course, was some madness that could only be expressed publicly by the Cabinet of Ministers. The assumption that people who are not vaccinated on buses and trolleybuses will have to be prevented is that the current government simply has no plan to do with the situation in the country. The opposition is very often criticised by the fact that we are just criticising that, here, we do not have such a constructive and positive plan. The only problem is that the ruling coalition does not want to listen at all to what the opposition is proposing - no constructive proposals, no... and does not respond to the proposals and suggestions simply to meet together and speak up all the problems, to exchange the information that the opposition has, but perhaps not for you, the respected ruling coalition, as well as simply listen to specialists who are not in the ranks of the opposition. Talking about a positive plan. First of all, SASE has long offered to hand over the whole vaccination process in the hands of family doctors. Finally, from the ruling coalition, it sounds like, yes, it has to be done. It was expected that already this Tuesday the government could decide on certain incentives for this vaccination process to take place precisely in the practice of family doctors. It didn't happen. Why? Because it turns out you can't reach an agreement with family doctors, because all this time there was no chance, there was no time, I don't know how... to talk to people who are able to do so... Persuading pensioners to vaccinate, because the most daunting picture in the vaccination coverage is precisely for us in age category 60+. And it is people who are at greater risk of dying from Covid-19 infection. Why was it so easy to think that it was the family doctor who could convince his clients of their retirement age that the employees of the Ministry of Health, the Minister of Health and the government as a whole did not think? This shows not only the crisis in the health system as pointed out by Mr Dolgopolov, but also the crisis in public administration, first of all. The government was unable to understand that this pandemic really was a very serious reason to work with the opposition that we called for one and a half years ago. You didn't do that. You silently thought that “we will achieve all things ourselves, we will be the most able.” Now, you have a signed document on the table of more than 46 thousand people. But it's not just 46,000 voices. Recent results of SKDS studies show that more than half of Latvia's population does not support forced vaccination. Among those people, a hundred points, are those who have been vaccinated. They simply do not support this by imposing pressure. It is once again a story of which path we choose - whether the negative incentives are forced (removal, repression, all things, bans) or, nevertheless, positive incentives. Why are students from the University of Latvia calling me at the moment and telling me that they have not been trained for a week? Even when they come with a negative test. To your knowledge, it is now that, even if there is a test that you don't have Covid-19, but you've done this for free, for example, first... for at-risk patients, this can be done free of charge... but you can only get a certificate if this test was carried out for a fee. Is this not absurd, or is it not in contradiction with your statements that we are taking care of human health and that this pandemic does not spread? Why is the principle of a socially responsible state still not applied in this testing process, which is enshrined in the Constitution? Why are we still in favour of dividing all people into only two parts - vaccinated and unvaccinated, forgetting that there are people with limited opportunities among the unvaccinated, many children's mothers, pensioners and other vulnerable groups that we help with the same day. Why is it from the ruling coalition that “they are guilty to answer”! Is this in line with the principles of a social responsibility state? Do we, however, have to look again at the Constitution and take decisions that would really put the principles of the Constitution into practice. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Nemiņš: “Mr. Butane! ... traffic!” ) Another thing. We are talking a lot about, here we are looking at what is happening in European countries. The last information is that Lithuania, our neighbour, a week ago, has recognised people who have seen antibodies in blood tests, so they have overloaded Covid-19 infection, but for various reasons, let's say it, because of poor quality tests, they have not found Covid-19 overloading... Lithuania has recognised antibodies as a basis for the issue of an interoperable certificate, despite the fact that EU indications in general, the guidelines remain the same. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) that we do not recognise antibodies. Today, a number of Members have already left for Vilnius, because we have the Consultative Council of the Baltic Assembly. I will go there at four o'clock, and I promise you that I will ask my Lithuanian colleagues and the Lithuanian Minister for Health what the arguments were that they are able - contrary to the European Union's view - to recognise the fact of this antibody as a reason for issuing an interoperable certificate. I'm just surprised by another, why not by our Minister for Health. And unfortunately, they are also signs of an administrative crisis. At the end of my speech, I will, of course, ask you to support this request from more than 46 000 people to examine all these problems not only at the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs. In my opinion, each of our commissions needs to look at all this problem, and most importantly - finally we have to meet the whole opposition with the position - we need that seminar - mutual - in order to speak once, maybe to disprove... to show people that we not only work formally by sitting down here our hours, but that we can listen to each other, just as we can listen to any people living in Latvia, regardless of the education with which we have the idea of vaccination. It's our job to hear people and hear each other. Thank you. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U66	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U67	Dear President, Honourable Members of Parliament! Today, the small hall near the library in the Saeima is smelling a lot of stewed cabbage. Why such an unusual smell appeared in our legislative body? The family, as we know, has a cafe, but it works only for reception, and several Members are taking meals with them in plastic containers and socialising in parliamentary shells, eating together there. Of course, nothing human is stranger to us, but it does indicate that we cannot organise a work environment that is comfortable and humane in our workplace. Here, as we know, 90 percent of people have been vaccinated, more than 95. The others have a certificate, the so-called PCR test. Are we afraid, for example, of Mr Gobzem - that we can contagion from Mr Gobzem? I'm not afraid. In general, it seems to me that the coalition Members have great fear of getting such a political infection from the opposition, you know, so they do not usually enter into discussions with the opponents and opponents of vaccination. Today, the division between the opposition and the coalition was as follows: 90 per cent against 10. Why do those ruling do not want to argue? Two weeks ago, the Saeima had a discussion about the 30th anniversary of Latvia's independence, and the former Prime Minister of Latvia Ivars Godmanis, who is a controversial person, but I respect him as someone who has a spine and who can really make unpopular but male decisions. And Godmanis said that in 1991, the Interfront, which at that time united the opponents of Latvia's independence, made a demonstration. What did the People's Front do? The People's Front organised an anti-demonstration which... It was much more. I have a question for vaccination supporters, zealous supporters of the government - why do you not organise your demonstrations against Gobzem? Why are you not organising seminars, open discussions to promote people's positive attitude to vaccination so that they can save their lives, their health? Today we examined the collective application of Latvian citizens, which, by the way, says that we are working with fascist methods, with communist methods. Read, please, carefully this document, which is in our document database. It is written that there is false propaganda in Latvia. ( Internouncing call.) And by the way, the organiser of its initiative, Mr. Ikvild, is a person who is part of the “Law and Order” party. I'm just telling you that, maybe you haven't read it. I would like to continue the discussion. I've been vaccinated. I support vaccination and support the collective application "Vacation must remain voluntary". Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U68	Name to Member Janis Butan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U69	Hello, dear colleagues! I have been vaccinated because I feel responsible for my family, my loved ones and our compatriots. I made my decision based on the views of doctors, scientists, and their explanations, because I do not know how better to deal with this pandemic. And the question here is not whether it is voluntary or forced vaccination, but more about why people in our country... Why don't we listen to our doctors and scientists at all. Please think about it, and if you have better proposals to deal with the pandemic, then don't hide them under the crowd. Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele: “Who is hiding?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U70	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U71	I think that all those who follow this debate can see the hypocrisy of this power. The opposition called for a fair dialogue, a fair discussion. I assume that some of the powers may even want to have such - fair - dialogue, but they cannot afford it, because if it is honest and open, then the whole of society will see the failure, incompetentness and irresponsibility of this power. If we are talking about the proposal from... I can tell you, then, what I think is the main reason why this power thought that it would not lead a project on compulsory vaccination through the Saeima - if it were driven through the Saeima, then there would be a debate here (the Hall of Noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) , the position should be debated with the opposition and demonstrate the validity of its position. Personally, I made 30 proposals in this bill... exactly what... Mr. Butane just called... What we have been talking about long ago - air ventilation, which I have been talking about since last year - is that it must be possible for an epidemiologically safe environment to be implemented not only through vaccination. I put forward proposals on how to do so. We should debate this here. I should also discuss this proposal that, above all, medical funding should be provided to ensure that this vaccination is carried out through family doctors. Family doctors who trust people would be those who convince and tell about the need and necessity of this vaccination, rather than compel them to do so. The coalition has, of course, rejected all this. We are trying to say that this is not a draft compulsory vaccination law driven by this power. You know, then I really have to admit that it's true that this submission says that then your understanding really looks like... Similar to that of the Communist Stalin, because Communist Stalin also said that collectiveisation is voluntary - either voluntarily collecting or travelling to Siberia. You create the same choice for the Latvian people - instead of having a competent debate here. It's not good for you. You need this narrow narrative, this psychosis, that the only way you can solve the current situation... You are like a rude driver at the wheel, who can only run loudly, climbed into the steering wheel, forgetting that there are other tools, pedals that could be pushed down. And if someone points you to these other instruments, these pedals, you say no, no, no, we will not discuss it. All you have to do is get in the corner and go ahead in the ditch. I have a question then. If someone who can't drive a car sits at the bus's wheel, this bus enters the ditch and dies, say, 20 people, then what will be the responsibility of this man who has assumed to drive a bus that he doesn't know how to drive? Likely, such a driver will be properly judged and punished for doing so. And then I have a question about those who have taken the lead in our country and whose result is that people are suffering and dying. And it's obvious, it's proof of fact. In one of the debates, I have shown you the facts here. In my opinion, it was in spring when we compared Estonian and Latvian data on co-haby and mortality. We had similar rates of disease, similar to the number of infected people, while our mortality was twice as high as in Estonia: more than a thousand people. And what is the reason for this? The reason is the irresponsibility, inability and incompetentness of this power. This is where it has led to the health system! It shows us the way further... It's not that we're twice as small as the Estonians. Why do twice as many of us die of the community during this period and similar levels of infection? That is why, because of this power, because of the way the health system has been treated. So, if it is right to judge the driver, who has sat at the steering wheel and has not managed to drive it, and people have died, what should be the attitude of these people, who sit at the steering wheel of this power, unable to drive and lead both the state of Latvia and the society of Latvia to death - a real death? What we are now seeing is just flowers. If we look at what is happening to the economy, with those homework that have not been done, we will once again see that this lag - we are now lagging behind Lithuanians and Estonians - is once again the result of this lack of power, incompetentness and irresponsibility. ( The utterance: “Time! ”) ) I therefore call for a really open debate, and I call on you not to hide, come and tell you why you are unable to do something. And one way will be to debate this proposal in the Saeima. I call for this to be supported. And the commission needs to come here with a report, tell us about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U72	The name of the Member, Mr. Miccherevski. Please! ( Insight, “Now listen! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U73	Hello, dear friends (as Aldis would say)! I'd like you to look at one word... What's at the end... It's written there. not about mortality, as many people are talking about, vaccination or something else that we have been talking about here for a very long time, but about progress... document... It's such a leaf... The kind that brought us... to direct it somewhere further than something else. Everyone's trying to spend those 15 minutes, time to film a video or show somewhere... But only Aldi Gobzem will show up there. The others... I think everyone shouldn't talk. This is not some kind of debate club. (Applause) (Laughter) I don't think I'm going to convince Aldi to vaccinate here, nor he will vaccinate me. This is not a debate club. Those who wish to have a debate on this can hold them; it may be that Mr Skride can take part - as a doctor - or someone else... We can do it, but we don't have to do it from this platform. Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Thank you!” ) It may be that (not heard) ... (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U74	I closed the debate. Mr. Orlov, do you want anything on behalf of the Commission? No, no. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 14 715 Latvian citizens “Vacation must remain voluntary””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 86, against -1, abstaining. Decision adopted. The draft decision “On the way forward of the 14 186 collective application of Latvian citizens “Reducing VAT on food””. On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications - Member Normunds Gunna. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U75	Hello, colleagues! On June 18th of this year, the Saeima received a collective application from 14 186 Latvian citizens “Reducing VAT on food”, which asked to set a reduced VAT rate of five per cent for fresh meat, fresh fish, eggs and dairy products. On 7 July, the Board of Parliament’s Mandates, Ethics and Application reviewed the application and heard a representative of the initiative applicants who informed that the reduced VAT rate for certain groups of food would allow one person to save around 310 euros a year. The representative of the Ministry of Finance informed that the fiscal impact of the introduction of a reduced VAT rate on fresh fish, fresh meat and dairy products on the state budget would be EUR 56 million. In the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, mechanisms for reducing labour tax rates should be used to support consumers and producers, rather than reducing the VAT rate for food products. The Commission listened to the arguments of the parties and unanimously decided to refer this Latvian citizens' initiative to the Saeima’s Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission for further evaluation. Please support the draft decision drawn up by the Commission. ( Insight: “It’s all! Bye!’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U76	Thank you for the Commission's report. Let's start a debate. Would you have 11 minutes, Mr. Zarin? “ That’s enough! That's enough!' ) Name of Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U77	Colleagues! I call for support for further progress on this proposal. And I call on you to ask the Ministry of Finance to justify what it has written about all these effects when you look at this proposal in the responsible Commission - the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. I will explain why it would be important to check the validity of all these forecasts from the Ministry of Finance. I well remember how the Ministry of Finance scared us here in the Saeima of what will be less if we grant reduced VAT to fresh products: ai, ai, ai, what will only happen with the entire budget! It was the Ministry of Finance, which promised it. However, we accepted it here because there was also a voice of reason, which is now before you. (Laughter) Thank you very much. (See the box below.) And the result? The result was that it turned out that the budget had come from all that the economy had. And so, colleagues, I call: when you look at this proposal at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, dissolve the Ministry of Finance in order to explain this justification, as they have made it in the Excel table - what they have taken into account and what they have not taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U78	The name to Member Ralph Nemir. Please! Would you have 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U79	Colleagues! When considering this collective application within the Commission, I call for more attention to be paid to the aspect where there is a large shadow economy. And at a time when the Ministry of Finance points out figures as to what its impact would be, it is necessary, however, to look at where the shadow economy is, and such reduced VAT could directly have a fiscal positive impact. We have heard before that this section of the shadow economy is very large for fresh meat. And if VAT were reduced directly for fresh meat, then it would probably encourage a number of operators to go outside the shadow economy and pay taxes fairly. I call for support for this collective application. In addition, I would like to say that a linear approach to such an issue would not be very precise, but it should be considered by the designated groups accordingly, so that there would not be a situation where the previously reduced rate for fresh vegetables is played not in favour of Latvian entrepreneurs, but unfortunately also for our neighbours, who are still earning on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U80	Mr. Crash, would you have eight minutes? Name to Member Armand Kraus. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U81	Yes, thank you, I'll have eight minutes, because this room is very infectious. So, on VAT and this proposal. I fully support the fact that we are moving forward on such a proposal and are also adopting appropriate amendments to the law. And here I would like to say, really, do not take into account what has been written by the Ministry of Finance at the moment, but look at the history of the researchers. There is a very large study, by the way, carried out at the Faculty of Economics of the University of Latvia on the impact of VAT reduction on the state budget, and this impact is not as great as in some good motherhood. One more thing. It is worth remembering that most countries in the European Union have reduced VAT on food - and it is precisely by saying that it will benefit those who are less prosperous. If we are a country that does not care for the less well-off, then of course we can continue with this tactic that VAT on food is the same as for other products or other goods, but if we really care, then... I would then recommend that this be moved forward so that real work and real legislative changes are followed in order to reduce VAT on food. That is very, very important. And I would advise you to really wear masks because, remember, also vaccinees can infect others.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U82	I closed the debate. Mr. Gunna, do you want anything to say? No, no. Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the 14 186 collective application “Reducing VAT on food””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 85, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The draft decision “On the way forward of the 10,237 Latvian citizens’ collective application “On the list of compensatory diagnosiss of migraine”. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U83	Good afternoon, fellow Members. Thank you, Presidium. On 22 July, the Saeima received a collective application from 10,237 Latvian citizens “On inclusion of migraine in the List of Compensatory Diagnosiss”, which asked to find a solution to include migraine in the List of Diagnosiss for which state-compensated medicinal products are intended. On 18 August this year, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications of the Saeima heard a representative of the initiative applicants who expressed the view that effective and accessible treatment will reduce the losses of the Latvian economy from the negative economic impact of migraine. The representative of the applicants for the initiative stressed that this would prevent the development of migraine's chronic forms, and called for the inclusion of migraine in the list of diagnostics for which the state compensated medicines are intended, so that the tenth of Latvia's population affected by the disease could be fully involved in everyday life. The Commission unanimously decided to refer this initiative to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission of the Saeima for further evaluation and prepared a draft decision of the Saeima “On the way forward for a collective application of 10,237 Latvian citizens on the inclusion of migraine in the list of compensated diagnostics”. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U84	Thank you to Member Orlov for his report. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the 10,237 Latvian citizens’ collective application “On the list of compensatory diagnosis of migraine””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. The draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 134 Latvian citizens’ collective application “Minimum salary of 630 EUR””. On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications - Member Janina Jalinska. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U85	Very respectful head of the Saeima sitting! Colleagues! On 22 July this year, the Saeima received a collective application of 10 134 Latvian citizens “Minimum salary of 630 EUR”, requesting to raise Latvia’s minimum monthly salary to 630 EUR in the month before tax. On 18 August this year, the Saeima’s Mandate, Ethics and Application Commission examined the application and listened to a representative of the initiative applicants, who stressed that Latvia currently has one of the lowest minimum monthly salaries among the Member States of the European Union and the lowest minimum monthly salary among the Baltic States and that this has adverse consequences for the country’s economy and society (emigration of the population, borrowing, dependence on social assistance, crime, etc.). The representative of the initiative expressed the view that raising the minimum wage to EUR 630 will bring the other European countries closer to social level and that the social and economic environment will be favourable in Latvia. The Commission unanimously decided to hand over this Latvian citizen (the head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) the initiative for further evaluation of the budget and financial (tax) commission of the Saeima and prepared the draft decision of the Saeima “On the way forward of the 10 134 Latvian citizens’ collective application “A minimum wage of EUR 630””. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U86	Thank you to Mrs Jalinska for her report on behalf of the Commission. The Bureau calls on fellow Members... Do you agree that if we continued to look at this issue and then end the sitting on 2 September? Are we going on a break? ( The transcripts are: ‘ Let’s finish! ’) ) Do we finish? Let's finish it. ( Interface: “There is nothing to wander! ” ) Thank you. Let's go. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U87	Mr. Micherevsky! I'll start with you. I realized that you didn't really understand the nature of the Saeima sittings, because the Saeima sitting... This is a debate, not a debate. Wait! You'll read the Order rollers more. In the debate on raising the minimum wage, this will perhaps not be a popular speech and will be more devoted to a society that usually likes my speeches, because they are aimed at protecting the interests of society. And this one is also focused on the protection of public interests, but there will be no earplugging. I call on Parliament to vote against the transfer of this initiative - in favour of raising the minimum wage -. I call for a minimum wage to be raised by people, not because I would regret it; the reason is, unfortunately, different. The problem. To understand, dear people need to raise not the minimum wage, but the inexpensive minimum for you to get more on hand. And the reason for this is quite simple. If we raise the minimum wage, then we will do much more harm to the small business and part of the medium-sized business, especially in rural areas, where it is not possible to pay the corresponding salary at the current tax policy. On the other hand, if we increased the inequitable minimum, which is indeed catastrophicly low with us, we would thus promote competitiveness and will objectively get more wages for people. Sweden is an example of this. We're... Very interesting: we are talking about Latvia's wish to approach the Scandinavian-type state - and for a large part of society it is enough to make such a statement that we will now be a Scandinavian-type state - but we are doing the opposite. For example, with us, people do not depart from their positions when they should resign after various events, just like Juris Pucem with car passes and parking, which his wife used. In contrast, for example, we are also dealing with the issue of vaccination: is voluntary or non-binding or compulsory vaccination that restricts people's rights? We forget that Sweden is one hour away, where there have never been mandatory masks, there has never been compulsory vaccination, no one has been laid off, everyone can study, they can study at school. When it comes to such issues, we forget about Scandinavia! We forget about the Scandinavian country, Sweden, too, at a time when it comes to the inexhaustible minimum which in Sweden, if I am not mistaken, is well above EUR 1000. At the same time, there is no minimum wage. The problem, dear people, is not the minimum wage. The minimum wage does not solve your household, everyday problems. The problem was solved by an inexpensive minimum, and it could be solved by Krišjānis Kariņš when he received a lot of money, but he spent this lot of money making unnecessary vaccination facilities for Pavluta and making 50,000 tests every day so that the Gulbja laboratory could get over. And I guess there's... I guess there's... KNAB is not looking in that direction, but probably there are otkati. And don't look at those researches by Durya on cucumbers and tomatoes... There's a bag there smiling in the last row... Half a million spent - we found how to cut the cucumbers and tomato... There, in that Agriculture... in which... He's working there... in Jelgava... Therefore, the inexpensive minimum is where billions of money should have been spent. Well, by investing at least one billion in an inexhaustible minimum and raising it to at least 800 euros, we would ensure that people in Latvia would also receive 800 and more euros in real terms. If this EUR 800 were not taxed, it would help the economy, it would help entrepreneurs, especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, who are also held by this parliament, which receives the money of the taxpayers concerned. Dear people, I call on you to understand this speech concerning why such an initiative should be rejected. I think that the public should not be taking initiatives simply because they want to have a higher minimum wage, but need a proper approach. And the right approach is not only the inequitable minimum that I have mentioned; the right approach is also a way of thinking in society as a whole. And I want to give myself an example. As an example, not as a Member, but as an example of a student many years ago, as a student many years ago and as a person who just started working many years ago. In my way of thinking, in my mind, dear people, never had the value of a minimum wage. I've never wanted a minimum wage in my life. My wish ceilings have never been in this category. And so my entire life, from childhood to study, has never worried me personally about the minimum wage, because in a purely human way I have programmed the desire to pursue as much as I... more than the minimum wage. Achieve more than the minimum wage. Think bolder than the minimum wage. And the same would apply to those people who have signed this application to raise the minimum wage. I would ask them to think outside the box about the minimum wage. And start thinking about how to force the Kariņš to increase the unobservable minimum, rather than spending it in an afer, which is currently taking place under the cover “vaccination” in Latvia. By the way, words such as ‘a pandemic’, ‘cob’ or ‘disease’ have already been forgotten, and only the words ‘vaccination’ and ‘testing’ are heard everywhere. Millions of millions turn every day. The more business, the more busy politicians have not been in the last hundred years. By completing this perhaps boring speech, but bearing in mind that this is my last speech before this House turns me off, I want to turn to this House because after a break I will no longer be able to climb the party, because I will be excluded from seven sittings of the Saeima, in accordance with Rule 75 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Rule 75 of the parliamentary roll says...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U88	Mr Gobzem, I remind you that we are currently debating the progress of the draft decision...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U89	Yeah, I'll just say one sentence.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U90	Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U91	I'll make one sentence. ... that such a decision is admissible after hearing the person against whom such a decision is taken. I would call on Members not to be so cowardly and to listen to me, to give me the opportunity to defend themselves on the parliamentary troupe before the decision is taken and before the respective vote. And, dear people, in order to change Latvia, we will go to the streets of Riga this year and make barricades, and we will win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U92	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, what will you say, Mrs. Yalinsk? No, no. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 134 Latvian citizens’ collective application “Minimum salary of 630 EUR”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The agenda shall be for the examination of requests by Members. Requests received by Members. Members Ralf Nemiro, Ramona Petraviča, Maris Možvillo, Ieva Krapāne, Eriks Pucens, Kaspars Ģirgens, Edgars Tavars, Armands Krauze, Viktors Valainis and Jūlija Stepanenko have submitted a request to the Minister of the Interior Marija Golubeva “On the accommodation of migrants in the Health and Sport Centre “Dzintari” of the Ministry of the Interior. The name of Member Ralph Nemir is for motivation. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U93	Dear colleagues, We have seen in public that the Ministry of the Interior’s health and sports centre “Dzintari”, located in Jurmala, is designed specifically for domestic workers (The Hall’s noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) , especially for those in extremely stressful situations, migrants are currently present and staff from the Ministry of the Interior cannot use this sports centre. The question is, is that so, is it not? We will clarify this by asking questions that have now been defined. Members have signed this request, let us call on ministers to respond and then decide whether or not to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U94	Thank you. The request from Members will be submitted to the Minister for the Interior. Thus (Dep. A. Gobzem: “On procedure!” )... Please turn on the microphone for Aldim Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U95	I ask both the Saeima Bureau and the parliaments in the next part of the sitting to follow the parliamentary roll in Rule 75, the second part... either, in fact, Article 75, which states that it is necessary to give the floor to the person concerned, whose exclusion from the sitting of the Saeima will be the subject of a vote; that that person has the right to give his or her opinion. And please take this into account.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U96	Dear colleagues, We have therefore reviewed the agenda for this year's meeting of 2 September 2021. I request the registration of the presence of Members. Name for reading the list of Members' Registrations to Inese Voika, Member of the Parliamentary Secretary. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U97	Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Aldis Blumbergs, Uldis Budriķis, Inga Goldberga, Rihards Kols, Līva Kreituse, Linda Medne, Maris Mičerevskis... There's a honey, huh? We'll see... That's it. Come on, come on. Ināra Mūrniece, Ivans Ribakovs, Inguna Ribena, Vita Anda Steela, Jānis Vucāns, Atis Zakaistovs and Reinis Znotiņš. That's it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-09-PT13-2295-U98	Thank you, Mrs Voika. Interruption until 13:45 a.m. ( Pause) I'm closing the sitting. Thank you.
