ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-29-PT13-2282-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! So Members Valainis, Plant, Dūklavs, Kučinskis, Tavars... In total 34 Members of the Saeima... In accordance with Articles 19 and 20 of the Satversme, as well as Article 38 of the Saeima Order Roll, the Saeima has asked to convene an extraordinary session of... 29 June of this year with the agenda – transfer of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance” to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau has convened an extraordinary meeting with such a agenda. So on the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance””. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the Member Valaiņa, Kučinska, Tadar, Krauze and many draft laws “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance” be referred to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-29-PT13-2282-U2	Hello, very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Today, we are a few days before 1 July, when the Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance, which set out the so-called minimum social contributions for all workers, enter into force. Colleagues! In our view, this issue should be postponed at least for some time. We have already done this on several occasions - we have called on the Saeima to take such a decision - unfortunately we are still not heard - and this has happened in various ways: by presenting draft laws and by making proposals... what has been done by opposition colleagues. At the moment, the situation has arisen that according to business organisations, these amendments will affect about 240 thousand people in Latvia. At the same time, it will most significantly affect precisely those forms of business that are so-called special business taxpayers' regimes, so-called... both micro-entrepreneurs, i.e. the small entrepreneur, will be the one who will suffer the most. At the same time, entrepreneurs working under the general regime will also be in a situation where they will also be subject to a rather heavy burden. This may lead to a situation where these economic operators may be prevented from implementing normal forms of business further. The Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Latvian Employers' Confederation and the... At the moment Latvian Municipal Union, Academy of Sciences and trade unions have joined, and very many are stressing the fact that in the process of drafting this law there has been more conversation between coalition partners than between business organisations and those who will pay this tax. And at this point in time, absolutely most of these taxpayers, who will have to pay for these new... The new payments, to which the new administrative burden will lie, certainly do not know that they will enter into such a new regime with effect from 1 July. And there's a part that knows, of course, and they're already looking for solutions, but there's a lot about this innovation that today... which is currently being prepared, will learn sometime in the second half of December and will receive such a unique gift to Christmas, where there will already be a premium, where the person will be in debt, and these sums, at least according to the original estimates, will be very, very... too much burden on these young entrepreneurs. I think that the government as a whole has already done the right thing by supporting all the entrepreneurs who requested support during the Covid-19 crisis, regardless of whether he has paid or not and what his social contributions have been. But I would like to point out that it was a smaller part - a smaller part! - from operators and operators in the special scheme, the smaller part which has been applied for these aid instruments. But now the government is taking this step completely against everyone - everyone, including those who have neither asked nor needed anything - who has simply worked and spent their lives. This will also affect workers in general taxation. At a time when the government had helped some of these entrepreneurs... At present, the government is not... instead of saving a person who is in some way in difficulty, rather than when he begins to purge, we get the fact that we see a step by the government where this person is simply pushed under the water. A very large number of business people simply push under the water, drown off their own entrepreneurs - small, medium-sized entrepreneurs - who, on the contrary, need help at the moment. And July 1 will be a great day. If we look at the context of the Baltic States, tax incentives - reduced VAT rates - are introduced in Lithuania for a whole year! And exactly in the areas that are entrepreneurship... Covid-19 areas affected by the crisis. In Latvia, we give entrepreneurs a gift - minimum social contributions. Colleagues, I call on you to support the referral of this matter to the Commission. We still have time for a few days. Show, please, an understanding of the fact that you have an understanding of entrepreneurs. And show them that these entrepreneurs are not insignificant for the people of Latvia. In this way, we will reduce inequalities. Without these amendments, inequalities will increase. I call for support to be given to the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-29-PT13-2282-U3	Mr. Atis Zakaitistov has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-29-PT13-2282-U4	Good morning, colleagues! I will call for a 'no' vote. And from the beginning, I will draw a certain context for this issue and then I will share with you the data that is available - up-to-date data from the Ministry of Finance on current and also development forecasts. The basic context is probably that the vast majority of Latvian workers learned about changes in social contributions in the last budget, and it was a small but happy news. Labour taxes were reduced for workers under the general regime. And they deserve it, because they pay social contributions, they pay, and they will pay in the future. It is the backbone and basis for the successful functioning of the pension system, education and many of the services provided by the state. There's a man behind each of these services. There are pensioners behind the pension system who want more pensions. There are educators behind the education system who want higher salaries and pay full social contributions. They deserve thanks. And this government will try, during the budget review, to continue its trend of reducing labour taxation for workers in the general regime. With regard to the alternative regime for employees - well, they have nothing to blame. The State has previously avoided the full payment of the social contribution, which is now no longer the case. And if we get to it... either, simplified truths: there are people, two people, both with the same characteristics: one pays full social contributions, the other does not pay full social contributions, and the two receive similar services. In order to change this, the government also decided to balance the whole situation. The latest data I can... with which I can share, points in principle to the fact that the economy has already accepted and accumulated this trend, as these data relate to the number and employment of micro-entities. Thus, in the first quarter, in the first three months, the number of micro-enterprises decreased by 46 per cent and the number of micro-enterprises decreased by 41 per cent. Data for the second quarter are not yet available, but the trend is decreasing. So it shows that the economy is ready to overcome this... ready for these changes. The second thing I would like to say is that the government has allowed the self-employed to listen. And self-employed workers, who choose to do so but cannot earn EUR 500, will pay a tax of 10 per cent of their declared income. The issue of social justice and the prevention of poverty has therefore also been addressed. Finally, I want to tell you about the forecasts for the future. Its forecasts for the future are now that growth in the second half of the economy and several years ahead await us. There is no economist or predictor who denies that, in this cyclical economy, our economy is now... plant. The data about how we grow could vary, but surely... Pessimists say - three percent, optimists say - five and up. This is therefore a period of growth, and this is the right time to introduce changes in social contributions issues. So what we see is that the economy has already understood and adapted to the new rules. We see that the poor are cared for by paying them, not by paying them a minimum contribution, but in proportion to the money they receive. And we see a period of economic growth. These are the reasons why we have to vote against the existing... the tender. Allow the economy to develop in a predictable, new environment. Thank you. Please vote against.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-29-PT13-2282-U5	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance” to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 37, for - 42, for - 8. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting has been examined. Time for notifications. Dear colleagues - Members and members of the Saeima! I call on everyone to take advantage of the opportunity to vaccinate against the Covid-19 virus so that in September we can resume work on the spot. And another statement. On 19 June our colleague Ilmars Dūritis celebrated the half-round anniversary. Today's birthday is our colleague Ivan Ribakov. And a special anniversary - the 33rd anniversary - is our colleague John Dombrava, and we welcome them! (Applause) There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. So I closed the extraordinary session. Thank you all.
