ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2270-U1	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! The Saeima started its remote emergency sitting on 9 June 2021. On the agenda for the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, trust or distrust. Draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Juris Jušas from the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Juris Jušas from the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit! Please, let's vote! There's no one to - 53, to - against and to - abstain. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the withdrawal of Mr. Ulds Budriķis, Member of the Saeima from the Commission of Petitions. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Ulda Budriķis from the Committee on Petitions! Please, let's vote! It's not about 52, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla from the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla from the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity”! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Linda Mednes from the Foreign Affairs Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Linda Mednes from the Foreign Affairs Commission! Please, let's vote! There's no one to - 67, against and refrain from - 67. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Reinis Znotiņš from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Reinis Znotiņš from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science”! Please, let's vote! There's no one to - 67, against and refrain from - 67. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the withdrawal from the Commission of European Affairs of the Saeima Member Reinis Znotiņš. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal from the Commission of European Affairs of the Saeima Member Reinis Znotiņš! Please, let's vote! No, 69, against and refrains. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Mr Micherevsky as a Member of the Commission for Legal Affairs. Please call me! I'm sorry, I'm sorry... Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2270-U2	Good afternoon, everybody! Colleagues, as you know, each Member is entitled to work on at least two commissions. Both the duty and the right to work on two commissions. If you take a look at these posts... the list, then for some reason, with regard to Mr Michelevsky, we do not see the possibility that Member Michelevski would be given the opportunity to work on two commissions. I have a well-founded question to which I would like to hear the answer, and I also draw attention to the attention of the public - whether Mr Mitchell does not want to work in two commissions or in fact because he is not sufficiently lovable to the group to which he ought to belong... from the party from which he is elected simply does not have the opportunity to work? I'd like to hear... apply for a debate here and get an explanation as to why this is the situation that exists for this Member. If this is not given here, I call on the journalists to find out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2270-U3	Member Maris Michelevskis has applied for the debate. The name of the Member, Mr. Miccherevski. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2270-U4	Hello, colleagues! In answer to the question by Ivars Zarins, I would like to work on two commissions.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2270-U5	Excuse me, Mr. Mitchell, you have... Sorry, you have a voice, you have to connect with the headphones. Please log in.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2270-U6	I'll be right out. Yes, Mr. Ivars Zarins is, of course, right. It is quite difficult for me to work now because I don't have my own group... and I'm in the Saeima smoking room right now... but I will certainly work on two commissions - when I succeed in collecting the other signatures and agreeing with the partners, which could be the second commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2270-U7	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Mr Micherevsky, Member of the Commission for Legal Affairs! Please, let's vote! For - 73, for - no, for - 1. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On the appointment of the Saeima Member Juris Jušas to the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the appointment of the Saeima Member Juris Jušas to the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity! Please, let's vote! For - 67, for - no, for - 1. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the appointment of Mr Ulda Budriķis, member of the Saeima, to the Commission of European Affairs. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the appointment of Mr Ulda Budriķis, Member of the Saeima, to the Commission of European Affairs! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the appointment of the Saeima Member, Dagmara Beitneres-Le Galla, to the European Commission for European Affairs. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the appointment of the Saeima Member, Dagmara Beitneres-Le Galla, to the European Commission for European Affairs! Please, let's vote! No, 73, against and refrains. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the appointment of the Saeima Member Linda Medne to the Education, Culture and Science Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the appointment of Saeima Member Linda Medne to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please, let's vote! On - 74, against and refrains - not. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On appointment of the Saeima Member to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit”. Please call... Here it says “... audit committee’. So it's a print error? ( Milestones.) One advance. I'm sorry. Consequently, the draft decision ‘On the appointment of the Saeima Member, Reinis Znotiņš, to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission’. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the appointment of the Saeima Member, Reinis Znotiņš, to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please, let's vote! No, 73, against and refrains. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On appointment of the Saeima Member to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit”. Please call me! Votes: “On appointment of the Saeima Member in the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit”! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On the appointment of the Saeima Member Maris Beļaunieks to the Committee on Petitions”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the appointment of the Saeima Member Mars Belaunieks to the Committee on Petitions! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On the appointment of the Saeima Member Maris Belāunieks to the Education, Culture and Science Commission”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the appointment of the Saeima Member Maris Beļaunieks to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the appointment of Līva Kreituse, member of the Saeima, to the Foreign Affairs Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the appointment of Liva Kreituse, member of the Saeima, to the Foreign Affairs Commission! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the appointment of Līva Kreituse, member of the Saeima, to the European Affairs Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the appointment of Liva Kreituse, member of the Saeima, to the European Commission for European Affairs! Please, let's vote! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Long Suplinsk to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Long Suplinsk, member of the Saeima to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of a member of the Saeima to the Commission for Sustainable Development. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Long Suplinsk, member of the Saeima, to the Commission for Sustainable Development! Please, let's vote! On - 74, against and refrains - not. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Krista Baumane from the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Krista Baumane from the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit! Please, let's vote! On - 74, against and refrains - not. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Martin Stein from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Martin Stein from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please, let's vote! On - 74, against and refrains - not. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Vita Anda Steel from the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On withdrawal of the Saeima Member Vita Anda Steel from the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption”! Please, let's vote! On - 74, against and refrains - not. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Inese Voika from the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Inese Voika from the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Public Solidarity! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Krista Baumane to the Commission for Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Krista Baumane at the Commission for Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On election of the Saeima Member Viesturs Liepkalna to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On election of the Saeima Member Viesturs Liepkalna to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On election of the Saeima Member Viesturs Liepkalna to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On Election of the Saeima Member Viesturs Liepkalna to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Mārtiņš Steinas to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Mārtiņš Steinas to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption! Please, let's vote! On - 74, against and refrains - not. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Vita Anda Steel at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Parliamentary Member Vita Anda Steel to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Inese Voika to the National Security Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Inese Voika, Member of the Saeima, to the National Security Commission! Please, let's vote! For - 67, for - no, for - 1. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On the approval of the Saeima Member Juris Pūce as a member of the Latvian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of the Saeima Member Juris Pūce as a member of the Latvian delegation of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe's Parliamentary Assembly! Please, let's vote! For - 70, for - no, for - 2. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On the approval of the Saeima Member Krista Baumane as the Permanent Representative of the Latvian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of the Saeima Member Krista Baumane as the Permanent Representative of the Latvian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe! Please, let's vote! For - 73, for - no, for - 1. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, We have examined the first item of the agenda for today's sitting. The second item on the agenda is the examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”, first reading. The Commission proposes to recognise this as a matter of urgency. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Evija Papule. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2270-U8	Hello! Thank you. Madam President, my fellow Members, too. Draft Law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” (No. 1094/Lp13), which has been sent to us by the Cabinet of Ministers, has been examined by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, is conceptually supported and is therefore being directed at first reading. The aim of the said draft law, which is also evidenced by an annotation, is to supplement the Law on Higher Education with a delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers - to establish that students will be entitled to a grant for social support from state budget resources and that this social grant is awarded according to the student's income, success and other criteria. The potential beneficiaries of the draft law are citizens of Latvia and non-citizens under the age of 25 (including), who are studying in full-time study places funded by the state budget and for a fee, from families that qualify for multi-child family status under the regulatory framework on the Latvian Honorary Family Certificate Programme, or from families where at least one of the parents of the student has three or more children and the student and parent has no maintenance debt. The draft law includes a delegation, as I have already mentioned, for the Cabinet of Ministers to define the criteria for granting a social scholarship and the procedure for administering the award also in accordance with the social, demographic and education policy area. At the same time, this draft law provides for the addition of transitional provisions of the Law on Higher Education with transitional rules, which provides that social scholarships are to be granted from this year – therefore from 1 September 2021. Therefore, by August 2021 it is necessary to amend the relevant regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers laying down the rules of the state education information system on how the relevant information is entered into the information system of state importance. The criteria for awarding a social grant and the administration of the grant will therefore be clearly defined. Since it is planned to grant this grant from September of this year, because budgetary resources have been found, we ask the Saeima on behalf of the Commission to support the urgency of this law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2270-U9	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” as urgent! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2270-U10	On behalf of the Commission, I thank you for your support for the urgency, because the benefits are likely to be large enough, and now I call for your support for the draft law at first reading as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2270-U11	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the consideration of the proposals and the date of the meeting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2270-U12	Thank you for your support. The deadline for submitting the proposals would be 14 June by 5 p.m. and we ask for an opportunity to be examined at the next meeting on 17 June... this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2270-U13	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 14 June by 17.00 this year and consideration by the Saeima at its meeting - 17 June. The third item on the agenda is entitled "Handling Members' requests". Requests received by Members. Members Ralf Nemiro, Kaspars Ģirgens, Ēriks Pucens, Julija Stepanenko, Viktors Valainis, Edgars Tavars, Uldis Augulis, Raimonds Bergmanis, Didzis Šmits and Maris Možvillo have submitted a request from Members to welfare minister Gatis Eglitis on your public statements on the control of state, EU funds and other financial flows. The name of Member Ralph Nemir's motivation. Please! Please, Mr Nemir, apply. The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2270-U14	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, Well, there's a lot of information available on the microblog site. Human or actually user with the word Gatis Eglitis - smiling face and accordingly the bottom text that... After the municipal elections, which unfortunately also had very little turnout, there has been a record that tells us that the municipalities will be divided into their own and not their own. In other words, it can be concluded from the record that a restarter of power, or a restarter of government, offers the distribution of money from EU funds, RRF money, even state budgets, only those coalitions of parties that consist of such... Restart of the government. In this case, we could say exactly... indications of segregation. Of course, we have a democratic opportunity in the Saeima to find out the truth, because in fact, the President of Latvia had also spoken before about this kind of mouthache or linguistically... in another way - failure to respect oral discipline for ministers. Well, there must also be some kind of responsibility. In this case, the Request Commission... is the way we can find out the truth, because there are a number of questions to answer. One of the questions, of course, is, first and foremost, whether this account, which has not been certified by a so-called blue note, is now owned by the Minister for Welfare. If that is so, and it is his record, how can he see this distribution between himself and not his municipalities? However, we believe that there is democracy in Latvia and that there is no segregation or division of society by political opinion, or rather political choice, and could this kind of information flow be linked to, say, the principles of good governance? This issue should be examined by the Commission for its requests. If the author acknowledges his own fault, apologies to the general public and undertakes to prevent such actions in the future, as well as other explanations. This request may have to be rejected, but it should now be clarified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-09-PT13-2270-U15	Thank you. The request shall be addressed to the Commission. Consequently, honourable colleagues, we have examined the agenda for the remote emergency sitting of 9 June. Only registration of the presence of Members. It's over. After 15 minutes, we will continue to work on the agenda for the sitting of the Saeima on 27 May. So we will resume the agenda - see in 15 minutes, at 16:55.
