ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U1	Dear colleagues, The second remote emergency sitting of the Saeima started on 18 February 2021. On the agenda - reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. Members Edgars Tavars, Viktors Valainis, Jūlija Stepanenko, Lubova Švecova and Raimonds Bergmanis have submitted a draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” (No. 925/Lp13), which is proposed by the Saeima Bureau to be referred to the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Edgars Tavars. Please! ( Pause) I'm sorry, Mr. Tatar, we can't hear you yet.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U2	Dear President, Dear colleagues, As I mentioned at the previous sitting in support of the government-led draft law on support for families with children, this draft law has become obsolete. It actually performed its function to such an extent that the government organised this more operational issue, which has now been voted on. And I really hope that all of us - the position, the opposition - will agree on joint work, on the draft law that has been voted, so that there can be no engagement and that this payout for families starts as quickly as possible. In order not to divide our views, as I mentioned during the previous sitting, I withdrew my signature from this tabled draft law so that we can proceed... so that it is not put to the vote and we can work on a single draft law that has now been voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U3	“Pret” has applied to speak to Krišjānis Feldmans. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U4	I just wanted to call on the opposition to withdraw its signatures from this and all the other draft laws so that we can move forward more quickly, including by bringing together the meeting of the Committee on Social and Labour Affairs, which is obviously going to be held today, and quickly voting on what the Cabinet has prepared for Members of the Saeima. So I'm calling... Given that the signature has been withdrawn, probably the draft law cannot be passed on, but if something is not, then reject this and the next... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U5	Thank you. One Member has spoken for and one against. The signature has been withdrawn from the application and therefore the draft law has not been forwarded to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes the Member Jūlija Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Lubova Švekova, Alda Gobzema, Evija Papules, Edgars Tatars and Viktors Valaiņš’ draft law “Amendments to Covid-19’s law on the management of the spread of infection” (No. 926/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission with responsibility for the Commission. ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak about” Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U6	Dear colleagues, Yes, Mr Tatar was indeed very diplomatic in terms of the operational work of the coalition. I have a slightly different view of everything that has happened. We had prepared the whole package last week, last Wednesday, with four draft laws, on the basis of what we heard public talks from government representatives and coalition parties. As we remember, at the beginning of last week, the auction started, there started to be various discussions about whether children need to pay some benefits, what children, what families and whether they need them at all, whether they need to pay some parts or not. And all these discussions really didn't get enough to worry people... Surprise, because one hour has this information, the second hour is quite different, for example, Mr Reira comes and says that only a few deserve it. And then another Member says that these payments should be distributed so that the parents do not spend everything at once, and so on, and so on. That's why our goal too... Yes, we can say that our goal is now achieved. We have achieved that the government has speeded up its decision-making, because it could have been a long time and a dictatorship, and long listen to all the discussions, all the debates on these ideas and proposals. If we are talking about this bill, about the other two, then I think it is not particularly worth withdrawing signatures, we are not trying to do it often, we are only doing it in very serious cases. This issue is just as symbolic as you, the honourable coalition, have symbolicly supported a number of very good initiatives, but purely symbolicly you have put these initiatives deep into the drawer. You can vote as symbolically in favour of this bill and put it in a drawer as you have done with the support of the adoptors, whom we intend to pay the parental allowance regardless of the age of the child. You can do it as symbolically as with the support of large-scale families, which Mr Bondar has already been in the marin for the second or third year. You can also support this draft law as symbolically as you do with the support of pregnant women, as Mr Skride does, and as Mr Skride does with the support of parents of premature babies. Mr Skride knows very well what we are talking about. You can do this, and I think it is not worth withdrawing the signature, because we need another guarantee that the government will do its job. We'll see a commission called. We will follow up on what proposals will be put to the big, main draft law that you voted on in the previous sitting. But I'm not going to withdraw this signature under the bill, because a lot of work has also been done. We have worked together, planned together and thought together how we could offer these benefits as an initial solution to the coalition. At the same time, I must, of course, also express my satisfaction at the fact that this decision has been taken in a little hurry, not in the mind. That is why I, Mr Feldman, will not withdraw my signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U7	“Pret” has applied to speak to Krišjānis Feldmans. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U8	It is a pity, of course, that the opposition continues to delay time and we are not reaching the draft law. 934/Lp13 to be examined by the Commission as soon as possible. In this case, this particular draft law, where that big work has been invested, is the same paragraph, where these EUR 500 have actually been distributed over 10 months. Obviously, the opposition has also been concerned that any family or money that would be EUR 500 could not be spent on the needs of the child. Well, I think that should be left to the families themselves, and I call for the EUR 50 not to be divided, but for the EUR 500 solution to be supported. The draft law has already been passed on to the commission, and to begin to see... In this respect, it is a pity that time should be delayed. But then we vote 'no', and there are no options, we reject this so that we can move forward 500 more quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U9	Please call me! We will vote for the Member Jūlija Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Lubova Švekova, Alda Gobzema, Evija Papules, Edgars Tatars and Viktors Valaiņš' draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management”! Please, let's vote! For - 29, for - 50, for - 10, for - 50, for - 10. Draft law has been rejected. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes the Member Jūlija Stepanenko, Lubova Švekova, Viktora Valaiņa, Edgars Tatars and Raimonds Bergmanis’ draft law “Amendments to the State Social Benefits Act” (No. 927/Lp13) transferred to the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the Commission responsible. ‘ Regina Ločmele, Member of the European Parliament, has applied to speak about’. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U10	Hello, colleagues! Hello, honourable residents of Latvia! Today, all Latvian parents do not believe in their happiness - the ruling coalition has finally developed and supported a real support mechanism for Latvian children in the amount of 500 euros, but what had to be done by Kariņš's Cabinet to save its historically lowest rating, as 43 percent of Latvians according to the last SKDS survey are extremely dissatisfied with the work of the government. Despite the fact that the proposal for so-called helicopter money was discussed in the ruling coalition for a whole week, the hope that absolutely all children living in Latvia will be lost has not been fulfilled. I am not going to talk today about those who remained behind the board at all, and how hopeless it looks, such as pensioners, the poor, the poor, the unemployed, the other people who have been left without income or with so little income during the community's crisis that they do not really know how to pull ends together and survive until spring. Unfortunately, our university students from 18 to 20 years of age also remained behind the aid because their parents do not get family benefits, but it is the family benefit that has a 500 euro supplement, which will be received as if all children of Latvia. I will be able to say today that this €500 child bonus would not be necessary if a normal and civilised system of social protection, in line with European standards, had been developed and implemented in Latvia. Because we divide EUR 500 per child and deny this money to the poor just because so far, we had only 11 euros and 38 cents on this one child in the family from the state budget per month. Compare: In Estonia, the allowance per child is 55 euros, for two children - 110 euros, but for three children it is 500 euros per month... EUR 510 per month. I will not talk about this at all in Ireland: 140 euros per child. The opposition, as you remember, remember very well, at least three times for you, the ruling coalition, to vote in favour of a system whereby parents receive EUR 50 for the first child, EUR 100 for the second and EUR 150 for the third child. But you, the ruling coalition, voted against so that now, by giving EUR 500 as a one-off bonus, you would feel like heroes. I offer you even larger heroes, voting in favour of this draft law prepared by the opposition members, Amendments to the State Social Benefits Act, which provides for a one-off premium to the family allowance for children with disabilities of EUR 1000. Is this a huge money: to pay for a child with a disability EUR 1000 once? I think that this kind of money should be received every month by these families, because if this child were to be in a state institution, the cost of maintaining him in it would be much higher, and you know that very well, those who have really gone into the problem. But this time, using the opportunity to speak from the parliamentary tribunal (because there are no possibilities - tell the government during their sittings - for us, the opposition - to say one more to you. I very much ask the Ministry of Welfare, I very much ask the Social and Labour Affairs Commission to pay attention to the break that could happen: some families with children will also not receive this 500 euro supplement because the disabled child will be 18 years old in this month of February. Because its procedure to cross this limit - 18 - as if the age limit is very heavy. The guardians have to go through a humiliating, lengthy procedure lasting between four and six months, and in the meantime these families remain without any state support, because they no longer receive this family allowance... with a family allowance for a disabled child (this is currently 106 EUR 72 cents in Latvia). I would also like to point out that this supplement to the family allowance for children with disabilities has not been raised for 10 years... This premium was not revised for 10 years. I think that this proposal is the least that this ruling coalition and government could do...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U11	Thank you, Mrs Ločmele, thank you. Time's up. The word 'no' to Member Julija Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U12	Dear colleagues, First of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks to my colleague, Mrs Ločmele, for having been so well prepared to talk about our draft law. And I would like to continue calling on Mrs Lochmele to tell you about the initiatives that we have put forward, in those cases where we cannot cover the whole square. I think this is a very good cooperation. But if we talk about this draft law and why and what I will call for a vote against. I would like to say that, first of all, this draft law, as we have said, has been drafted together... a single package in response to the options proposed by the government. One of the options was, therefore, support not only for children who... Thus, not only for children with family state benefits, but also for families raising children with disabilities, so that these families can receive more support. So our proposal provides for this support to be twice as large as that provided for by the family state allowance for families raising children with disabilities. This is necessary in order for these families, whose communion crisis has hit no less than the rest of the family, to actually buy the necessary extra equipment for their children, to have the necessary things on a daily basis that are lacking and to provide at least some kind of support to themselves, including those parents who cannot afford extra help during this difficult time. Because, as we know, it is still impossible for parents who wish to receive this vaccine to be vaccinated. Parents are, in fact, people who support this child and risk their child’s health all the time, especially those who work, who have to go to work every day, and they are very afraid to bring this virus home. Parents are also very concerned, of course, that they will have enough money to buy the same seats for children, disabled cars, which are specially equipped and which sometimes cost up to two thousand euros or more. Parents are also concerned that some children need special readjustment equipment, which costs several thousands of euros. Parents need to think about how to buy and make special beds where their children can sleep and stay every day as well... also during the day. Parents in such families are concerned about a lot, much more than many children in families, but we are not now sorting out the fact that the needs in such families are disproportionate even to the benefits we offer. We will not withdraw signatures, because we want these draft laws to be merged. We do not see special support for children with disabilities in the government's proposal. And now I will tell you why and what I will call for to vote against this draft law. I will call on them to vote against this draft law, perhaps five, perhaps ten, perhaps fifteen, I hope that there will be no more of them, as I have said, who believe that such families do not need additional assistance, who believe that we have already taken sufficient care of these parents who are heroes on a daily basis. I will call on those five, ten or fifteen Members who believe that Article 110 of the Satversme, which states that we should take special care of children with disabilities, is an empty sound. Please! Vote 'no'! I will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U13	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” presented by Member Jūlija Stepanenko, Lubova Švekova, Viktoras Valaiņa, Edgars Tatars and Raimonds Bergmanis to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 33, for - 40, for - 16. Draft law has been rejected. Dear colleagues, It's time for a break. Registration of the presence of Members has taken place. See you at 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U14	Dear colleagues, I informed you: there is a small technical problem, so I have a technical break for five minutes. Let’s start at 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U15	Dear colleagues, We shall continue the second remote emergency sitting after the break on 18 February 2021. On the agenda - reports from the Saeima Bureau. The Saeima Presidium proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Disease Management Law” presented by Member Jūlija Stepanenko, Lubova Švekova, Viktoras Valaiņa, Edgars Tatars and Raimonds Bergmanis (No. 928/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. ‘ “Lubova Švecova, a Member, has applied to speak about”. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U16	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues! I would like to oppose the demagogy and the statements made by Mr Feldman in relation to our proposed legislative package, which would provide additional support during the economic and also health crisis caused by the community pandemic, and I will explain why. There's one thing. Latvia was very generous and the government, in support of airBaltic’s corporation, provided a transfer of 200 million to keep the company above water. Latvia was very generous, and the government and the Minister of Transport provided 200 million “Latvian Railway”, which is in a critical situation also due to changes in the transit sector and implemented policy. There are quite a lot of people who have been unemployed, including those who have been dismissed close to a thousand people from airBaltic, and about a thousand people have been released from work on the Latvian Railways. What is the connection with this offer to support families and people with disabilities? Very simple, because if we look at how generous our country and government were to state-owned companies and invested in it, then we will see that the support that the government has finally agreed to by distributing EUR 500 to families with children - it is simply just one little bit of compensation for people, for individuals and for children, for the family. I believe that any instrument used by the opposition and this draft law is precisely an instrument of opposition to encourage the government and the position to act more quickly and more responsibly... And we use those instruments to say that the demagogy expressed by the Minister for Finance and the Prime Minister in the initial phase, saying that it may not be appropriate to grant a family allowance with children of EUR 500, and yet, in addition, to allow this allowance to be named as helicopter money, which I believe is immoral, because helicopter money is money that is distributed to everyone and for anything or more correct that should not be returned. This money is intended to support families with children - families at risk, because after research, it is families of many children who are at risk of poverty. This aid is therefore necessary. And support is needed not only for children, but also for families with children, but also for families with disabilities that are struggling, and for people with disabilities, because they are on the verge of poverty in this difficult situation. And there is more to be noted and evaluated. According to information provided by the Employers' Confederation of Latvia, Latvia at the Bank of Latvia conference from the Baltic States looked least generous in terms of supporting the population groups and supporting the population segment in a crisis situation. I will name the figures that were expressed in the discussion of the Bank of Latvia last year, September 29. Compared to Lithuania and Estonia, support for income retention in Latvia was 0.3 percent. At the time when it was 0.9 in Estonia and 0.8 in Lithuania. These are the end-of-life benefits for people who have been unemployed. This benefit is exactly what supports people and who support families, but who do not support... and covers or compensates for the offence of the parties committed by the government and the ruling coalition politicians in granting money to “Latvian Railways” (200 million) and airBaltic (200 million). And we know perfectly that in the near future the government will decide... and also intends to support airBaltic. Therefore, colleagues, when we vote against the support of the citizens, we look at who will then repay the debts that the government has now taken and who will have to pay for those debts that are borrowed by the politicians of the ruling coalition. Please support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U17	Mr Krišjānis Feldmans has applied to speak against the commission. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U18	Yes, well, this particular draft law also actually speaks of the so-called division of EUR 500 per month, for which the Saeima already essentially, by passing on the draft law No. 934/Lp13, has agreed that it will be equal... one major payment. But this must be confirmed by the commission. I urge you not to delay the time, reject this and then, as soon as possible, start working on bill No. 934/Lp13. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U19	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission the draft law tabled by Member Jūlija Stepanenko, Lubova Švekova, Viktoras Valaiņa, Edgars Tatars and Raimonds Bergmanis, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 34, for - 48, for - 9. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. Rejected. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes the draft law “On the accession of the United States Defence Department to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the National Defence Department of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania and the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the establishment, administration and operation of the Centre of Excellence of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation for Strategic Communications of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Defence Ministry of the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Kingdom of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Slovak Republic of Poland and the Ministry of Defence of Great and Northern Ireland of Defence of Defence of the Republic of Defence of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Latvia’s's's's'' High-Suping-s'''''''' Board for the establishment for the establishment for the establishment for the establishment for the establishment for the establishment for the Cooperation Committee for the Cooperation Committee for the Cooperation Committee for the Cooperation Committee for the Network's's's's's's' (Cd''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''' Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Draft Law No 929/Lp13 transferred to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima shall propose the draft law of the Cabinet of Ministers on the accession of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Denmark to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the National Defence of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Republic of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Germany and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Great Britain and Ministers of Defence of the Slovak Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the establishment, administration and operation of the Centre of Excellence of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation for Strategic Communications of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the Slovak Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Federal Defence of the Federal Defence of the Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Republic of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Defence of the Republic of Poland and the United Kingdom of Defence of Defence, and the Ministry of Defence of Defence of Great Britain and the United Northern Ireland, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence, and the Ministry of Foreign and the Ministry of Foreign and the Minister of Foreign and the Minister of Defence of Defence of Foreign and the Federal-owned to transfer to refer to the Committee of the Committee for the Committee for the Rule to refer to the Legal Legal Legal Legal Legal Committee for the Committee for the Committee for the Committee for the Committees to the Committee on the Committees to the Committee'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''' Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Draft Law No 930/Lp13 was transferred to the commission. The Seimas Presidium proposes that the member Ulda Augulis, Viktors Valaiņa, Jānis Dūklavs, Janina Jalinska, Armands Krauzes, Gundars Dauges, Māra Kučinska, Jānis Vucanas, Edgars Tatars and Raimonds Bergmanis refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Roads” to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Jānis Butāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U20	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! What, then, is this specific draft law proposed by the Group of Members on "Amendments to the Road Act"? First of all, a point has been included that the Cabinet of Ministers lays down requirements for day-to-day maintenance of roads of state and local governments. It should be noted at the outset that such provisions had already been issued in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 6 of the Road Traffic Act since March 2010 and have been reinstated in order to comply with the latest amendments to the Road Traffic Act and will enter into force as from 16 April 2010. The proposed amendments to the Law on Roads also provide for the addition to the fourth paragraph of Article 23.2 by the words ‘in accordance with the delegation agreement provided for in the first paragraph of this Article’ or, in one word, to the amendment of the paragraph in which... The powers conferred on the state public limited liability company “Latvijas road operator” to operate according to the need to be able to enter into commitments enabling them to engage in the fight against competition in the market by providing their services. By supporting these amendments, the company will no longer be able to do so, as the company will only be able to assume the obligations that will be provided for the implementation of the delegation agreement concluded between the Ministry of Transport and the State Joint Stock Company “Latvian Road Maintenance”. The first amendment to the proposed transitional provisions of the law is of a technical nature and is necessary only if the previous proposed amendment is supported. On the other hand, with regard to the proposed amendment on the definition of tasks to the Competition Council, I can only add that it is an independent body and acts in accordance with the Competition Law, where its tasks are set out, and therefore it is neither ethical nor good legislative practice to define other laws that the Competition Council should do. At the same time, I can add that already now the State Joint Stock Company “Latvian Roads” cooperates with the Competition Council in drafting the Regulations for maintaining the public road network. On the basis of the above, it should be concluded that this is rather an attempt to open up the daily maintenance market for public roads, and therefore I call not to support these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U21	Mr Uldis Augulis has applied for a speech. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U22	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Colleagues! Unlike my colleague, however, I will call for these amendments to be supported because, in the recent past, we have experience with road transport, with road transport tenders. A similar situation arises here. So that we can be sure that there won't really be any individual company again without respecting competition... or any other cartel agreement, then it is important that this opinion of the Competition Council is also stated in the law before the announcement of the tenders. Second case - regarding the Cabinet of Ministers regulations. It is necessary to strengthen these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. Perhaps even taking into account the not very good experience of our Estonian neighbour, transferring the maintenance of roads to private hands in order to promote competition. Unfortunately, the Estonians were forced to return, and it cost much more. So, in my opinion, we should be absolutely sure that in the next winter, we will have our roads cleaned up, we will have preventive irritation and there will be no problems, and the maintenance of daily and periodical works will really take place properly in summer, instead of business people waiting for better weather conditions or... or any other criteria that will work at that time, where the company's lawyers will be active enough to figure out how to econominate as much as possible. Plus it should be said that the delegation agreement and those prepared projects, which are the ones, provide that “the keeper of the roads of Latvia” will remain in places where there will not be a successful competition. Well, pretty... It is quite difficult for me to imagine how a company with some small remaining part will be able to compete in the common market, because the costs that the company will have when losing its market share in competition with other companies... Well, it's going to be quite burdensome because in the original annotation too, where there were benefits of a million... is quite, quite questionable whether this benefit is actually in the way it is currently planned, because actually, if... In fact, every year millions... One and a half “Latvian Road Maintenance” invested or, more precisely, received dividends that invested in the further maintenance of Latvian roads. So that we, fellow Members, do not come to a situation like that of road transport and that we, God, do not end up in a situation like that of our neighbouring Estonians, I would call for these amendments to be supported so that we can be sure and certain that the Ministry of Transport has done everything correctly in terms of opening up the market. Colleagues, I call for reasonableness and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U23	One Member has spoken for, one against handing over to the Commission. Please call me! We will vote for the referral to the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Roads” presented by Mr. Ulda Augulis, Mr. Viktors Valaiņa, Mr. Janina Dūklavs, Mr. Janina Jalinska, Mr. Armands Dūze, Ms. Māra Kučinska, Mr. Janis Vucanas, Mr. Edgars Tatars and Mr. Raimonds Bergmanis. Please, let's vote! On - 33, against - 58, refraining from - 1. Draft law has been rejected. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes draft law of the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” (No. 933/Lp13) transferred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members have objections? The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Are you going to talk about or against?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U24	I will say 'no'.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U25	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U26	Thank you. Colleagues! I call for this draft law to be recast, for it to be modified so that we do not have to talk about, in my opinion, this year... The year is just beginning, but now this year's biggest failure on the part of the government is the creation of a vaccination office and a list of wages. It is absolutely unethical to include in this draft law a very small premium for doctors, in the same place, at the same time, in the same annotation, and even in the draft law, these huge amounts for the head of the vaccination office, for the staff that nothing is done at all. You have seen how badly our vaccination office is working. You saw that money... The vaccination office does not deserve any euro - out of the answers we see from the action that is taking place. Absolutely! It is a clear cynicism - one and the same bill to predict that some who are perhaps more publicly identifiable, more pleasant, are much better paid, because they are PR people, while the other who do black work daily, work with patients, risk their health, - they will receive capetics. It's a duality! It's shame! And such draft laws and such actions cannot happen at all on the part of the government! I call for a recast of the draft law - you can do it, you can understand it, you have all the resources - and for it to be stopped with the vaccination office, to eliminate it and to no longer show anyone what you are going to do now. Please, get in touch! We don't need any vaccination office PR shares! We need to provide vaccines for those who want to be vaccinated. There's a lot of them. You have seen the entry Manavaccina.lv, which now also looks like it will not be relevant anymore, because now we will close our family doctors. You see that there are a lot of these people, you see that you are unable to provide this vaccination. The vaccination office was probably only set up to promote vaccination in the public to create different selfies with the way in which the vaccine was carried out, where, with whom and beyond. All this training is not needed for people who need it today. They don't need any persuasion. Those who need to be persuaded will not be able to convince them, they have their own opinions, and they are entitled to their own opinions. No Eva Juhveviča with beautiful speeches will be able to convince a person to vaccinate if he has decided not to do so, but Eva Juhveviča cannot provide vaccination for those people who were waiting for it last week and last week. So no vaccination office, colleagues, does not need to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U27	Mr. Valains, are you going to talk about it?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U28	I'll talk about it. Yeah, I'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U29	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U30	Yes, colleagues, Mrs Stepanenko's clear argument is that this draft law also includes the vaccination office. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is a lot of need for things in this draft law, and this is support for medical practitioners, support for family doctors, who we believe are very much in favour and even needed, and it should have been some time in advance. I think these amendments are late, but we must support them absolutely unequivocally. With regard to those cases which are debated in this draft law and, of course, it cannot be denied that the wages, meaning and role of the vaccination office... It should have been seen as a separate draft law, discussed in the Saeima only in this case, their role, meaning, goals and results to be achieved. As a principle of good governance, it would be right to discuss all these issues before we talk about wage setting, because everything is now in the air. This in a way confirms the bardaque that exists in the existing coalition and in the work of the government as a whole. However, if you are talking about bardac, then the bardac is definitely in the government, but the bardac is not with family doctors, the bardac is not with doctors, the doctors are doing their job, the family doctors are doing their job. The fact that there are incomprehensible conditions that make their duties very difficult is a little different, but their pay cannot suffer from it. They are, however, front on the first line, they do work, and bonuses are vital for them. In order for the vaccination to take place as qualitatively as possible and quickly as possible and for everyone to have the greatest interest in participating in this process, the issue of pay is clearly important. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for this draft law to be supported and for the necessary amendments to be tabled. This will certainly be necessary because, in my opinion, these groups, which are now defined as fighters on the first line of the front, should also be extended to other areas where specialists, just like medical professionals, are working on a daily basis, face these challenges. The same social workers - they should be included inside - should be added to this scope, too, and should be paid for, and resources should be found in the public budget to finance it. On the vaccination office. As I have already said, we will certainly come forward with a proposal to exclude this section from the bill, as we believe that the vaccination office has not justified itself and has really shown itself not as a good organizer, but rather as a strategic PR mechanism, which, at least it seems, is doing it as a communication and communication about vaccines, although I think they should, above all, do more work on organising this process. And about PR activities - that's what we could do afterwards. If we also look at PR activities, it is quite clear that these people have little understanding of medicine, as evidenced by their first interviews in the media. And the results of the vaccination... Well, it can be that the vaccination office works well and we have a message in our public space that one person has been vaccinated on holiday. Well, colleagues, I think that's not normal. If the vaccination office considers it its first priority to sabotage the government at a time when there is a real shortage of vaccines in the country and there are a number of categories for which this is very necessary, I think that we need to think about this vaccination office... I'm not saying that it has to be eliminated or abolished, but we need everyone - the Saeima... First of all, the Saeima needs to agree on the objectives and measurable results of the vaccination office, and then we can also measure them and determine their remuneration. At the moment, everything is mixed together and it is not really right. In general, however, I call for support for this draft law for the reasons outlined above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U31	One Member has spoken for, one against. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Proliferation Management” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 933/Lp13) transfer to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! For - 83, for - 2 and for - 1. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Dear colleagues, we shall continue to look at the agenda. On the agenda - referral of draft laws to commissions and first reading. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Legal Status and Pensions of Members of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Latvia” presented by the Social and Labour Commission be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible. The Commission has asked the draft law to be examined at first reading without a re-examination by the Commission. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Andris Skride, Member. Please! ( Interface: “The Commission... “ We give it to the commission. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Andris Skride, Member of the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U32	Hello, head of the Saeima sitting, colleagues, listeners! So in its meeting, the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs drafted this draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Legal Status and Pensions of Members of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Latvia”. As you all know, the law “On State Pensions” for more than a year has stipulated that in the event of the death of the pension recipient, the second or surviving spouse may receive half of the deceased spouse’s pension for one year, but members of the Supreme Council are subject to another law, and currently this law, which applies to members of the Supreme Council, does not provide for such a procedure, and it creates a discriminatory situation against members of the Supreme Council. Therefore, the Commission amended this law so that former members of the Supreme Council will be able to... If the surviving spouse has passed away, the surviving spouse will be entitled to 50 percent of the pension for one year. The Commission supported and developed... support. We also ask the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U33	Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Legal Status and Pensions of Members of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Latvia” at first reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U34	The Commission is asking for proposals for second reading by 23 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U35	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 23 February this year. On the agenda - reports by the Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Evija Papaule, Aldis Gobzems, Karina Sprūde, Lubova Švecova, Andris Kazinovskis, Viktors Valainis, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Armands Krauze and Edgars Tavars have submitted a draft decision “On the task of the Cabinet of Ministers to review the trade restrictions established during the emergency, ensuring reasonable and balanced decision-making in the long term”. Are Members opposed to the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this sitting? Please log in. Nobody's signed up. We are starting to examine this draft decision submitted. On behalf of the Commission, Member Jūlija Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U36	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, again! I will speak on behalf of the rapporteurs, because this draft decision has not yet been referred to the Commission, nor has the draft decision been adopted. But I very, very much hope that perhaps this time we could all agree with the Saeima that the government should listen more to the Saeima. It will soon be a year around, when the Saeima has a role to play in the role of such a grandson, where the Saeima can only recommend, pray and run after the government, stating that, here, you were wrong and you were wrong here, please redraft. Our draft decision is designed so that these restrictions, which have been introduced by the government, can be reviewed without delay - today, tomorrow - and with the idea that, if these restrictions are necessary, they should be reasonable, based on calculations, and should be followed closely in future by the objective with which the restrictions are thought. If there is a desire to restrict the sale of certain goods, then someone must take responsibility for the impact on the economy and the epidemiological situation. And this impact needs to be assessed, and every 14 days the Saeima should also report, because the Saeima is the decision-making power... The family owns the decision-making power, whether or not the government is now given outside the situation... out-of-court powers in this emergency situation. The Saeima must maintain a close link with the public and explain to the public these decisions, which sometimes the Saeima itself also does not understand what the government would have meant. I must also immediately apologise to the general public for the fact that this issue has actually come to the Saeima late, because we really tried to call an extraordinary sitting, we tried to do everything to make this draft decision appear last Friday, so that people do not get cold down to shops, so that people do not suffer from this cold, but unfortunately that is the reality - this is what is happening in the Saeima. That's why... and thank you, dear colleagues, for not opposing this issue today. We very much hope that this draft decision will be supported and we very much hope that the government will implement this draft decision. Not as it is on the issue of sport, where we need to provide a further draft decision, so that the government does, however, do sport... start opening with a specific date. We very much hope that our urge to also pay attention to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, who are currently in a completely unequal situation with the big trade monsters, will also be heard by the government in these arguments. And controlling the flow of people in small stores, as we also pointed out and clarified, is much easier to implement if these restrictions are to be maintained. But please, please, all further decisions that we will then have to reconfirm here in the Saeima, and tell, and explain to people, please, take with your head, with your mind, considering all “for” and “for”. It is very good that we will now hear all the arguments, but it is bad that we may not hear some of the meetings of this crisis council in which these proposals come in. Proposals prohibit the purchase of socks, prohibit the purchase of toys. Proposals to organize this huge shopping boom before Christmas for two days, then close everything hard and then agree that after two weeks these people had become infected because they simply had no option to buy these goods within a limited time. I have to add... I agree with the view: if it is necessary to maintain these restrictions further, please think about how people can be squandered in shops by extending working hours, opening as many shops as possible. You see, if there's only one out of five shops open in one village, because the other four don't meet the requirements of these meters, then, of course, there's people going to be at that store, because they just need to buy food for themselves every day. Please examine the impact of all these restrictions on trade, on the epidemiology and, please explain, count and be responsible for your decisions. Please do not repeat these errors, which you have already recognised, the honourable government. I call on you, honourable colleagues, to support this draft decision and to encourage a more reasonable decision of the government in the future. Thank you, colleagues. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U37	Thank you for your motivation. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U38	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Colleagues! I would also call for this draft decision to be supported, and I would like to emphasise a number of points. First of all, we all see how, in my opinion, it is impossible to explain the validity of these decisions and how they reduce the spread of the disease. If we look at what's going on in the shops, if we look at what's going on out of the shops that's going on in the shops, we're... lines formed to enter a grocery store, lines formed quite simply for a person to visit a pharmacy. If a person is ill and needs to visit a pharmacy, and if the nearest pharmacy is located in a supermarket, he is forced to stand in these great minuses when he is ill. I do not understand in any way how such decisions help and how they combat the pandemic. At the same time, a very silly situation has arisen with regard to the conditions of competition. In my opinion, there is a great deal of unequal competition; there are a number of small shops that do not currently work, which are unable to compete with large shops that are able to offer their services on the Internet. There are also a whole range of shops that have ceased operations at the moment, because simply their products cannot be sold on the internet at all, and those whose clients may be people who... where purchases are for much smaller amounts of money, such as the same clothes shops. It is easy for people, a large part of society, to go through gloves or socks, or to buy a new sweater in a shop. Their income is... And that's our terrible reality... that they go and use used clothes shops. One example I am referring to. Also opportunities for people, large parts of society, to buy something away. And there is an inequality in its competition - that this government provides support mechanisms by working with a very high degree of delay. Support mechanisms are provided only when entrepreneurs, employers, workers are already in a crisis situation where they are no longer really helped, when these debts are already so large that the support mechanisms that are provided late do not help them out of the crisis. If the government were to analyse these decisions... and that is also what we are proposing in this draft decision that the impact of regulation on the economy must be taken into account when calculating the usefulness and importance of all restrictions, as well as this economic aspect. Of course, when adopting restrictions, it would be equally important that, when making one decision, some kind of aid package comes with it right away. These support packages are now two weeks, a month, several months and a half a year late. At a time when the support package is already very late, it is unlikely that its businessman will end up doing something. Therefore, colleagues, this draft decision is, in my opinion, very correct. It calls for an assessment of the restrictions imposed. I think it is obvious to everyone that the government continues to steer from one ditch to the other when making its decisions. And the brightest... The brightest moments are already... I will mention a reference to the Latvian Television Programme “A Banned Method”, which compared our own restrictions with Estonia. How foolish and controversial they are! Same as for bus capacity, for shop visits and so on... So we can go on long and wide. Therefore, colleagues, I call on you to support this task for the Cabinet of Ministers - to evaluate, reassess, regularly reassess and, at the same time, assess the impact of these restrictions on the economy. This, in my opinion, is not being done at the moment. There's a fire coming out of it, but it's not... in time, no rapid fight against causes. If we have once restricted, let us assume that in regions the activities of shops that do not deal with the marketing of food products, if this is limited, it is clear that in a month or even more quickly there will be difficulties. It is therefore necessary to give some kind of support mechanism immediately. At the same time, there is also a very topical topic for shops that have a drop in turnover, but on the bank side, on the bank side, no discounts are given, loans must be paid. And then there's a chain reaction - the big owner demands from the small tenants, the small tenants can't do it, they're being, you can say, flashed up to the last. Each of these parties can also be understood, for everyone is asking for something. In this case also with the banks... It would be high time to start agreeing with commercial banks to postpone some form of credit and also to set up national regulation so that commercial banks do not force their borrowers, who are clear that they will not be able to work as a result of a pandemic, to repay the loans, because at least now a break should be closed. At the moment, the break is quite conditional. In my opinion, all the suspensions are just a delay. When the crisis is over, and hopefully it will end, the problems will come out, and these entrepreneurs are likely to go a long way, quite simply going to go bankrupt, because then they will start... Imagine the situation itself, for example, there are five shops on one street, three of which have gone bankrupt, one or two have fought and, in some way, have dealt with the crisis with their accumulated resources, and then they are faced with payments made both in the area of national taxation and to banks... Then, at a time when all five shops start working together, it will happen that those three who come without debt, which may have appeared on a new market, those who have fought during the crisis will simply compete. That will be the reality, and there will be many such cases. I therefore call on my fellow Members to think about these issues and to weigh the impact of each decision on the economy in good time, and also to support these areas of the economy in good time, because, now, it is a very, very sad situation and the decisions taken by the government and the failure to anticipate some kind of public processes that society will do, are in a very pitiful position, colleagues! That is why, as I have said before, and I still believe that the government has exhausted itself, the government itself is no longer able to make a reasonable, meaningful decision and explain its decisions. The Saeima must assume its responsibilities and provide the government with a road map for making decisions in the form of such tasks. We are Members of the Saeima and it is our duty to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U39	We shall continue the debate on the draft decision submitted. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U40	Yes, well, I understand that this particular draft decision has been tabled before we succeeded in achieving open government sittings where the various Covid-19 restrictions are decided. At present, therefore, firstly, the question of the fact that the Saeima should in some way indicate how the government can decide at the closed government sittings has actually become obsolete. Secondly, there is no doubt that the government... and I also understand it today, perhaps even now, this issue will also be looked at - precisely with regard to small business, beauty, trade. At least an economic minister who, by the way, Mr Valaiņš, if I remember correctly, has voted, has presented such an encouragement to the government. Basically, it's a principle... and what are the new Conservatives... The principle that we support is respect for the traffic lights principle, not a single average for the whole country where, for example, perhaps because of large cities, where the disease is technically more intense, because it is simply a higher population density... And as a result, for example, in Kuldīga district, where 14 days of illness is cumulatively lower than 200 people, there is no small business - shops and beauty care, and everything else. Thus, as the Government agreed to apply this traffic lights principle to education, by dividing it by the relevant indicator, the rate of disease intensity, in each particular administrative area, whether in the municipality, then also in the present case, in the case of small business, in the shops, in the beauty industry, it is necessary to apply the same principle. It is only fair, because it is not fair, as I have already said, that the impact of these large cities on statistics actually causes economic units working in the regions, where there is already a lower population density by default. Therefore, too, as far as young Conservatives are concerned, first of all we are pleased with these open government sittings. Now there are no more strange, inexplicable decisions. Everyone can watch live, how these decisions are made, who comes with some arguments, with some statistics on which any decisions are based. Consequently, the principle of fairness in limitations should generally be introduced. I trust the Minister for Economics in this regard and expect him to speak up firmly too, and I think others, let us say that the coalition partners will come up with this issue so that the matter can finally be resolved in a fair way for society. This is the thing that... It should be noted that this is indeed the case. At the time when there were closed government sittings, the decisions taken as a result of some particular lobby really created a situation where those shops that could actually absorb some much greater losses in a crisis situation, even though they had, for example, some asset buffer, were, in fact, also easier to work under restrictions, while rural shops were forced to go hard. In fact, the decisions made at those closed government sittings were in favour of these large, let us say, city supermarkets to a large extent. It was also one of the catalysts why it has now come to those open government sittings - to see who is lobbying small, who is large and so on. It's also a fact that... Why should small, purely technical help? Because it is the asset reserve that is lacking in order to overcome the crisis, and various other factors as well. For example, there are opinions, and there are even studies, which say that it is in this crisis that small and medium-sized enterprises are suffering more than large companies that are accustomed to work perhaps... And it can also be in other sectors where there is more and more remote work, where, for example, information technology is used more, something more... higher added value by some greater automation. So actually it also happens... The crisis profile is purely that small people suffer more. And now, when we see that it is allowed to sell the entire range of goods in the major stores in Riga, it turns out that it could have been done, and that is... I think it's just reasonable... and then, having regard to some of their distance requirements, then it is only logical to find that there is no reason... If, for example, there is a farm shop that can provide some square metres per person, why should it stand firm? I don't understand that, for example, and I think... After me, too, the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics will speak, and I also think he will make it clear that this illogicality must be eliminated - in the case of shops of another profile, such as farm shops, for example, because there is no reason why, for example, one store may sell the same product and the other may not. All this is possible thanks to open government sittings, where perhaps the shameless lobbyists are now ashamed - shame! - to speak what they might have spoken earlier. That is why the situation has changed. Well, in this case, everyone must follow exactly what the Cabinet of Ministers decides, use its opportunity, and society also has the opportunity to watch live on the Cabinet's website. Therefore, all decisions will also be much easier for journalists to explain, and easier to communicate, because it is clear that this communication came from a lack of information. Then, of course, there began to be an interpretation of what each one said about what happened there at that meeting. Another thing - why is it important to allow these specific stores to a limited extent, but still to work like... trade in the same goods that supermarkets can already sell... It is true that the vast majority of society in this period has experienced at least a shortage of a product, including a lack of a service - whether it is, for example, a particular product of a farm, whether it is plumbing, whether it is a hairdresser, or another product or service. It is clear that society has felt short, I think about 95 percent of members of society have experienced this shortcoming... that they think about it, and they can't go... Yes, on the one hand, it may have helped, well, to stop going to the store, which was probably the original goal, but at the moment, when the list of products has been abolished for supermarkets, there is no reason to keep this restriction for specific sector stores. Of course, the actual population density in the regions should also be reviewed. Those shops are physically smaller and, for example, adequate quarry requirements should be laid down to comply with distance rules. That, in my opinion, is quite important. In this respect, I just wanted to say once again: either, obviously, this proposal was tabled or was prepared, I do not know before all this happened to the public meetings of the government. That's why I'm calling... No, of course, the opposition is doing what the opposition always does, so that is the opposition. It is common for them, therefore, that by not taking responsibility for anything, promising everything to everyone, and also late when they hear someone decide and discuss something in a coalition, then try to submit it as soon as possible, telling them that they, for example, have come up with it or presented it. In this case, the good news is that the government is now working in an open regime. I propose that this be assessed, that we support the good initiatives that sectoral ministers bring to the government - whether it is economic or education - or it is in any other area. In my opinion, it is a constructive crisis management rather than philosophiing there for something - let us entrust the task of reviewing, evaluating and so on. This is already happening. Turn it on for video transmission and look at it - it's already happening. Therefore, I think there is no need to delay Parliament's time here. For example, what we have to do is to legitimise the allowance of EUR 500 for children, rather than equip the opposition with some kind of general and spiritual decision projects on a wide range of topics, which, of course, is okay, a game for their audience, to let things go wrong. I call for support for those who do what is constructively leading the crisis. I call for support for constructive decisions in the government. I call for support for a regional version of the traffic lights principle for education, for small shops, for beauty, for all other sectors. We need to learn now and reorient ourselves to the fact that this situation can continue in the long term. And it's quite clear - it's clear to the fool - that without the hairdresser nobody will live a year, nor will shops stand for a year, then there will be shadow business and the shadow economy. It is now necessary for the government to take decisions. Here's the message to the government, this is the message. Of course, you can also write all kinds of papers, hand over to commissions, make all kinds of working groups, and reason there. This is the choice of opposition. I call for this to be rejected, for work to be done, for decision-making to be supported and for us to see what they come out and, let us say, also to help, not to criticise and llamate, but to help the government - that I think is very, very important - and to work constructively. If the coalition had not worked constructively, then the family allowance of EUR 500 would probably not have been. When there was a constructive job... At the moment, the Saeima just had to pull a bunch to make it a law... It's okay. Let's quickly accept today... we can accept it today in the Saeima, do what we really have to do today, not say, about such... And I support small shops, I support, so Conservative ministers will support small shops in the government. Look, the company that's on it. Look who's against schools who's against shops and who's for, and what's the arguments about whether there's data at the bottom. Look, all of this can be seen now. Thank you to all those who support openness and constructive management of the crisis. I call for this to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U41	Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics participates in the debate on the draft decision. The name is Jurgis Miezanis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U42	Member of the President-in-Office. Honourable Members! Krišjānis Feldmans has already marked quite a lot of what the Ministry of Economics has worked on. And we have worked with the industries - the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Latvian Traders Association, the Latvian Employers' Confederation and others in relation to trade. What has been created and what is currently in the transitional period, I would like to emphasise once again - during the transitional period - is the concept of safe trade. This safe trade concept requires that we adapt to the situation, allow business to work and allow them to do so in a safe way, without endangering both the commercial service providers and buyers. As we go to government, we proposed that this concept be implemented immediately and for all. However, taking into account also the guidance of health experts that this could lead to uncontrolled threshing or any other problems with mobility, assembly, a transitional period was decided by allowing food shops, which until now have also carried out most of the range, to remove these restrictions, to assess how this safe trade concept works. And the indications are very good. Today we have also summarised all the overall results, we have been speaking to the government, we have also spoken at the cooperation meeting (the coalition party) about the need to move forward. That we must provide fair, equal opportunities for all to work. The concept works. There are no significant infringements on the part of traders, thus providing buyers with a safe environment as far as the safe environment can be ensured in this situation. And today we are looking at a solution in the beauty industry - hairdressers, saunaers, cosmetologists, SPA - based. And also next week, we are going to government with a data-based solution, how we can open up all trade. I would call for this draft decision to be rejected, because it does not solve anything. It doesn't solve... We must have a sustainable solution that enables economic operators and society to live with a pandemic. And the concept introduced by the Ministry of Economics together with the industry... I would like to emphasise once again that the concept developed together with the industry offers this opportunity. And small traders, for example, are easy to adapt. So now we see, yes, there are lines at supermarkets in Riga, so the main task is to distribute these lines. The economic operators are indeed responsible. Indeed, as far as they can, they comply with the requirements to ensure a safe environment. Everything that has been developed is based on the recommendations, recommendations and data of the epidemiologists. Today, as I said, we will have collected most of the information from the trade sector, from the State Police. We will also bring a data-based solution to the government and we will call for trade outlets to be opened up. Because we are not talking about reducing restrictions, we are talking about security, about how society, business, we can each live, given that there is a high level of disease, there is this epidemiological situation, but we cannot keep the economy suffering forever. Thank you. I call for this draft decision to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U43	Mr. Tawar! Do you have 12 minutes?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U44	I'll have a much shorter time, too.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U45	Thank you. The name is Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U46	Once again, the honourable Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Talking about the task of Parliamentary State Parliament to ensure reasonable and balanced decision-making in the trade restrictions established in the long term. We listened to the stories of the coalition representatives, how good everything is, how all the decisions are made rationally at the sittings of the government opened at the moment, weighed down to ensure the long-term viability of our economy. Only what we see in reality on the street, what we see in reality in small, medium-sized business, when faced with them, when listening to them, especially in regions and not only in regions, also in capital, is something completely different. This is the moment when works do not go with words again. If we are talking about the principle of traffic lights, then let us be honest! - a large part of the small, medium-sized business is currently lit by red light in the traffic lights or no light at all. I'm not even talking about the region of small traders, where people by bus... In a small bus or minibus they go to the store for a longer period of time, they get out, and then they stand in line to enter the store, even though they have been travelling together for a long time. Where's the logic? There are many examples of this. Inequality to allow traders to trade... To the advantage of the great opposite of the small - it does not in any way contribute to the circulation of our economies. Yes, we know that in an indicative less than one third of Latvian entrepreneurs pay almost 80 percent of all taxes, but these other entrepreneurs - those who do not get a social benefit, those who employ the majority of Latvian companies whose income, wages return to the economy, they spend this money on big taxpayers - in supermarkets, petrol stations, utilities, gas, telecommunications and so on. We need to understand how important it is to support small, medium-sized businesses, also from a social point of view. We remember a very recent time when the coalition party demonstrated pomposis closed Tērbata Street before the Riga City Council elections, shed lamps, brought beautiful flowers in flower pots, all the merchants were happy, people were happy. The day after the elections, all this was removed. But what do we see now? Walk, colleagues, on Tērbata Street! You will see that many shops are not closed for a short time, but are bankrupt and completely closed. It is also very serious for the merchants of the capital. If we are talking about a balanced policy or about open government sittings... Let us be honest: if there were no opposition colleagues, these 34 signatures to convene an extraordinary sitting, which were finally withdrawn... To delay this, you decided to return to the principle that the sittings were open, but you forgot to say one: you yourself decided that these meetings of the Cabinet of Ministers were closed to the public. And what we are seeing right now is this debate about how many doses and doses of the vaccine are in one unit. We hear these discussions as far as they are "weighted and expert-based". These trade restrictions, too, and the other restrictions that society is currently facing during the Covid-19 period. Therefore, my fellow Members, I recall once again: we are living in a parliamentary state, and Parliament can send a clear signal to the government that these restrictions must be reviewed, that these restrictions must really be weighed down, not just in words, but also in deeds. Therefore, colleagues, I call on you to support this task for the Cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U47	There are eight minutes to the end of the sitting. Mr. Dombrovskis, would you have eight minutes, please?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U48	I think it could be enough.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U50	Dear colleagues, It is rather ridiculous to hear a coalition representative say what they have done. What you, the coalition colleagues, have managed to achieve is that the government's assessment, the government's assessment, the government's assessment, is the lowest possible point that governments in general have ever been. And here we are talking about January when it was measured. We will also see what new anti-record you will be able to achieve after all that you have done this month. Looking, colleagues, at what you're doing, just about, for example, those area restrictions in the shops. Well, on the one hand, you can understand - the fewer people per square metre, because perhaps less likely to infect these people. But then you forgot, well, it looks like these people will come out on the street - on the street! And then you forgot to look at the weather forecasts and the temperature outside. And now to us, the parliamentary secretary of the Ministry of Economics is trying to say that, here, it is the businessman's fault that the businessman is guilty of forming a line outside. Then let's take... Well, this Prime Minister's saying that there has been a long-standing lack of data and analysis - it is probably the slogan of this entire government, and it is particularly strange, given how many millions of you, colleagues, have spent all kinds of research on the community. So millions have been spent, the research is ready, but then we learn that the Ministry of Health doesn't even know where those who are infected with the community work, and now they're trying to find out. So what kind of research have they been? If you even now, how much is it? Almost a year after this pandemic began! - lack of data on what these infected people have done, where they have been, where they have worked... And you're just ready to wake up now? Another example: I think it's even better. Well, very close to the Saeima. The Head of the sitting, as I understood, wrote a letter to Prime Minister Kariņš inviting us to organise an open... not open... Government... sittings of the government in person to send out a message to the public in this way. So, at the same time, her own party ministers refuse to give up vaccination. What will be the case if part of the ministers refuse to give up vaccination? Does the left hand even know what the right hand is doing? So, colleagues, here... I can give many more examples, but these examples show that the government is unable to use data, to analyse data by taking forward-looking decisions, to understand the consequences of their decisions. Then we have... Mr Feldman believes that now that government sittings are open, it is obvious that government ministers or governments will start to work better. Well, it's, of course, an interesting hypothesis, whether it's going to be better. I then call on you, maybe fresh air will help, colleagues! Perhaps the government will have to hold its own government sittings outside, in the woods, just like recommended to hairdressers. If the government already says that people have to use the hairdresser services in the forest, in the fresh air, then maybe not only open government sittings are needed, maybe they should also be kept in the fresh air, in the forest, maybe it will help the whole analysis and use of data and more thoughtful, balanced decision making. Now, colleagues, here, too, a representative of the coalition has criticised the opposition that, here, the opposition is not responsible for anything and is just criticising it. Well, I'm sorry what was... Mr. Feldman must have been the one who said that? This is the result that you, Mr Feldman, and your colleagues, have chosen your partners to take decisions and take responsibility for their decisions. But what you're doing... That's why you haven't chosen an opposition, so... It is the opposition. You may need to take and read “Introduction in Democracy” or other such books (it certainly is!) so that you can learn how their parliamentary countries work. But instead of working with those with whom you have chosen to take responsibility, what you're doing is this - all the time this bu-bu-bu with your coalition partners that they don't give you anything to do there and you... In principle, all we hear from the coalition Members... Today, from the Parliamentary Secretary... is about it, that's how good we are all, with good intentions, and we want to do... we want to do it, it and it, but we are not allowed to do it. The whole coalition is in a circle where it points the finger to each other, one to the other: here we are good, we want to do everything well, but they don't let us do it. Well, it's a kindergarten, colleagues! If you have chosen these partners with whom to take responsibility and make decisions, then make them decisions and be responsible for those decisions, rather than tell them that either your closed government sittings have prevented you from doing something or any unnamed lobbyists, government partners. You've made some kind of kindergarten you've always been guilty of. Now even the opposition is the fault of you. Well, if the opposition is guilty, colleagues, then what you have to do is you have to stop all this... the government, because - I agree with Mr Valaiņš - this government has wasted itself. If you can't take responsibility for your decisions, then that's it! You should resign and let others work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U51	Thank you, Mr Dombrovskis, for immersing our time, because it is lunch time. Interruption at the sitting. Only registration of the presence of Members. This has happened. We meet at 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U52	Dear colleagues, We're continuing the Saeima sitting. On the agenda is the draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to review trade restrictions established during an emergency, ensuring reasonable and balanced decision-making in the long term”. We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U53	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues! I will tell you about the light of the traffic lights, the red light that is burning throughout the territory of Latvia, in all cities, one thing: its red traffic lights are burning in the heads of civil servants. The red light in the traffic lights lights in the heads and eyes of civil servants working in public administration because they fear responsibility, they are afraid to take the initiative, they are afraid to come up with proposals that may not be popular, which need to be justified, which need to be defended, which also need to be weighed and debated to offer and accept. What I saw on several commissions... Working in the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit... one of the last... in which we participated and discussed work and the possibility of restoring a much less normal model of activity in the sport sector for children and young people, I have found a total lack of professionalism during the course of the Ministry of Economics. I've found that the Ministry of Education and Science in the specific segment, children and young people in sport, can't name any numbers... no undertaking, name in particular, any specific number relating to the grant of the benefit during an emergency period for undertakings active in that particular segment, specifically for professionals active in that field. This only indicates that there is no segmentation. Ministerial officials responsible for the specific sectors are unable to identify... and is unable to account to Members for the current situation, for the problems that exist. Each sector, every business, every self-employed person fights for himself, and they do not see, hear and receive real representation in the executive and in the defence of their interests. And it's the most significant problem in the fact that red light burns everywhere in every head, because it's not normal for the country to... In a modern and digital country that we are talking about now, it cannot be that we have such a single traffic lights for the whole country! Well, you're sorry, that traffic lights... How many traffic lights are in Riga? And why then do we need a smart management system, why do we need smart light? Because every street... If we compare the current situation to a traffic light, for every street, each intersection has its own system, its own movement, its own characteristics and its own characteristics, and depending on its intensity, depending on the problem, it is necessary to make regulation. And this regulation with a traffic lights, which has been used for a very long time in Estonia, is a special approach and a discussion with industry and people. In Latvia, officials are discussing with each other, mostly with each other. And the officials do not want to take responsibility, unfortunately. They do not know the field they should know, but they speak general phrases, leaving their personal experience. I understand Mr. Miezaiņa, let's say so, emotionality, because he survived the community. And it is likely that his emotional weakness and his weakness are related to the side effects that the disease then causes. But that does not mean that all of us should now cry and continue to consult, communicate, or discuss. Therefore, there is also an executive power, so there are ministers - not to communicate and continue to discuss, but to make decisions. And those decisions must be based on each individual sector, on each individual action - specific and thoughtful. But if the officials do not know what is happening in that sector, then the decisions are what they are. The fact that in Latvia red light burns everywhere in the same way is not understandable for logical thinking people. Why is Estonia an opportunity to do sports for children and young people - and not only children and young people - but Latvia is not? Why in Latvia is red light burning in the same way everywhere – in Kurzeme, Vidzeme, Latgale, and in the centre of Riga? Tell me, please! There can be no difference in morbidity, and that is not the case. We even have different weather conditions. If the weather is different, then there is also a difference in immunity and health, and then there are different levels of risk, and then there should be appropriate regulation. But the red light is everywhere! I am very sorry, I think officials should turn on another light in their heads a long time ago in order to make thoughtful and balanced decisions. And that is why this proposal provides for a specific analysis of the sector in question and for those who work to be able to work before making a decision. All the decisions taken so far in the red light of the traffic lights are based solely on officials' unwillingness to take responsibility and on the interpretation of ministerial self-esteem and unilateral decisions. I therefore ask for support for this proposal and for an end to the demagogy of the new conservative representative, Mr Feldman. It is easy to discuss without taking decisions if you sit on the salary paid to you by those taxpayers who are now oppressed, oppressed and who are not allowed to work and earn money for their living. It is very easy to reason and think about the fact that, uh, the opposition deals with demagogy and is not responsible for anything. If there were no opposition, you would never have decided to grant support to children with families. You would never have agreed to make concessions and to allow any other activity that is necessary for the normal or much less normal functioning of the economy. Therefore, all the demagogy expressed by the representatives of the position is based on the unwillingness of officials to take responsible decisions. Please support our offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U54	Name to Member Aigar Bikšem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U55	Thank you very much. Dear President, Dear colleagues, What would I like to say? I think it is clear that this situation is terrible, because there will never be a good solution that we could not criticise; because, from the point of view of limiting the pandemic, we could put all people in a separate room, keep two weeks and probably achieve good results. But from the point of view of maintaining the Latvian economy, it would probably be right if we did not stop any activities and work further. But then... we can imagine what the consequences will be: the disease and what will happen in hospitals. So, I think, in any case, it's like, whatever the finger we bite, we're gonna be in pain. On how to deal with this situation and how... I too worry about what happens to small shops, and I also worry about what happens to entrepreneurs. Two weeks ago I tried... and I met the Head of the Latvian Trade and Industry Association, as well as the Head of the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and I spoke and asked what was going on, what was going on, how they saw how they could restore the operation of the shops, I listened. Then in the group sittings, I spoke to us... with the ministers representing us in the government, and what I have heard was that, in principle, ministers, the Cabinet of Ministers are working in this direction, they are looking for solutions so that small shops can work and that we remain in the fight against the pandemic and do not kill the economy of our country. I am pleased that the Cabinet of Ministers has decided to set up this strategic centre for the crisis, which includes the social partners. I therefore have full confidence that the intellectual capacity in these organisations will be transferred and will work on joint, correct decisions by the government. Yeah, I... Of course, looking at this application, I think the opposition is doing the right thing. This is the task of the opposition - to move, to keep a watch on the government. I am pleased with the work of the opposition, but as a position Member, I would like to say: let us be able to work in this difficult situation for the government and do not interfere! That is the good thing that has happened from this pressure - all of us, society and the government, have seen this pressure from you, the opposition, and this is certainly being taken into account. However, in the vote I will vote against. I'm sorry, dear opposition colleagues. Thank you for the hearing.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U56	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U57	Colleagues! When we translate what we have heard from the honourable, highly honored Mr. Bikše and Mr. Feldman, it is in fact a single sentence: “Dear opposition, don’t bother the government to sleep!” And again: “Love opposition! We, the coalition, are powerless to do anything for more than a year." What we hear constantly from our coalition colleagues is the protection of this sleeping government, walking on the fingertips: “Do not give God, we awaken someone! Do not give the God who accepts something friendly to society there!” A respected society, please remember those people. Remember those people in a coalition who do not allow the Saeima, as representative of the highest decision-making power, to point out to the government what the government should do at last! Yes, Mr. Bikše, it's been almost a year! - we allow the government to work. As you say, “Let’s not stop the government from working!” If it can be called work, then - yes, we allow the government to do, actually experiment with society in various ways. You found out: “One experiment didn’t work, the other experiment didn’t work. What else could we, the government, do?” And, Mr Feldman, your argument that, at last, government sittings will be open and we will now see a kitchen for taking these decisions - they are small, naive guy's shouts, because the government sittings have already been open once - in Mr Repše's time. Open government sittings don't give anything. The only thing they do is they provide a show for the people so that they can take their time by discussing how one minister told each other something and how the other responded. But the nature of decision making, the root - we will still not see all this. We will not see those “herosers” who have come up with these restrictions, which are suffering at the moment by the people who, today, came to Mego to stand in line for nuts. We will never see those havocs who also bring all kinds of nightmares to the Cabinet sittings that have already been opened, because all these agreements - Mr Feldman, you know it very well! - takes place outside the open sitting show. And all the conversations - exactly the same. And what you say - that you expect the government to defend the small shops today - is simply protecting each other's breath, I am sorry, Mr Feldman. But if you talk about protecting small shops and supporting everyone now, then I can answer you that last week you - Mr Feldman, Mr Eglitis and I think Mr Riekstin - were ready to sign this draft decision, pull it out of our hands and bring it to the government and the Saeima. You were ready to do this, but you didn't. You didn't do it! And now you say to the opposition that the opposition is running in front of the wheels. No, it wasn't! Last week we prepared all of this and we also called on you to join us, but what did you respond to us? ‘ Or, there's an opposition! We have our own order in the political group, we cannot allow us to be there, but we will support you with words." Do you support us with words? Do you support small shops with words? You just protect each other, you protect your breaking government. You're hypocritical and unscrupulous. I call for support to those who still have the last reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U58	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U59	Dear colleagues, As always, we have a very interesting debate. I understand that, like a bad dancer, something is hindered, just as a well-functioning government is always hindered by the opposition. This is the main obstacle to working even better, even more productively and achieving even more excellent results. But a year has passed, and Mr Feldman jumped into the fact that open sittings are better than closed sittings, because only it can get the clarity that is the bad lobby that affects a well-functioning government. A year later, the government was told that no item was a carrier of the virus, that however, it was transmitted by other means and by other means. Those bans on groups of goods and on certain trade in goods seem to have been a great fool. It's been a year since we started to understand what to do further with restrictions on the spread of infection, and maybe we'll also start vaccination on a massive scale (naturally, if there is a vaccine, if the vaccination office works successfully... and so on). But today it is just one thing: that trade should be organised in a broad sense so that it does not really be the source of the spread of infection. And in this case... Let's say, it's about just... recently we have approved new restrictions affecting, say, the area of the shop - from 15 meters we have increased to 25 meters... I think that government members working 24 hours a day naturally do not go to shops and have never seen that it is in small shops that there is a contact between one seller and one buyer. The buyer, if he can't go to that little store, has the opportunity to enter the second small store. On the contrary! In supermarkets, with all restrictions and a certain number of buyers to be admitted, however, it happens that people who have reached those shelves concentrate... they do not concentrate in different places, but concentrate on particular shelves. Go to the supermarket and see what happens to dairy products, vegetables, bread production, cooking! It's not like people line up after the toilet paper. That is not the case. So we need to think about how to regulate this process, the trading process. That is why what is proposed in this draft decision is that the government really should think about and review trade restrictions. It is not about other activities and actions - it is about only one very important stage, and it is about trade that affects all the people of Latvia. Mr. Bikše said that the best way would be to say that people could... if each person could be placed for two weeks in one isolated room. I think that someone who leaves its space after two weeks will no longer need any products or services, not even a hairdresser. Only one service would then stay in front of... I therefore call for support for this draft decision and not for their great and long mullation of the opposition's efforts to to rendezvous the work of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U60	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U61	Hello, Latvian society! Hello, colleagues! I will tell you the reasons why this government does not come and why it will never come, and why this government is actually nominal, and the time to go with a one-way ticket, as you say! - home. In principle, this government and this coalition make "thir years" mistakes; they continue to do so. REIR, the Minister of Finance of the Unity, is like that hairflyer in “the thick years, ” who traveled with Porsche and lived in a multi-storey house in a microdistrict. That's what this story is about. And for comparison. At the time, the bank's residents were going to throw money without any difficulty, and each settler was driving a seventh series of BMW or S-class Mercedes. He was able to take a A4 sheet printed at the bank's home, on which was printed - I work there and there, I get it anyway. And the credit, the bride was in the hand! In addition, this could be done and settled in parallel by credit institutions. So it ran and rake light money, buying beautiful things, organizing parties. The result was that the crisis came, because the money spent does not generate new money back so that the borrowers could return it. Banks, lenders continue to write off outstanding debts of that time today. Today it's the other way around. Today, banks, other lenders have learned from mistakes, and the people have now gone through a heavy school in cash. It's much more difficult to borrow now. It is also quite difficult for citizens to return to Latvia. But here's what our government, with Karina, at the wheel and all this coalition that will vote against - beats hands like "in fat years", takes as new money and spends on grievous things that do not stimulate the economy in any way and do not solve long-term problems, and does not deal with anything at all. The result - many money has been permanently spent on annual public holidays, a millionaire Ulmanis Toyota... And the money for children is, in fact, not a benefit, but an international loan, because many money in the Treasury has long been gone. There's a void. In the short term, this coalition and the government themselves are happy with their actions, with all sorts of solutions, with vaccination offices and something that is not yet available, where all the huge billions have been spent, and continue to do so. It is amazing that in the government there are people who handle money in the same way as little children with matches! There is no need here to have the highest economic or financial education to understand what awaits our country and what long-term "gifts" are for our future government and for our future generations after Karina, the party leader. We take only credits from Karina, party organizer, led government and spend some mystical, incomprehensible things. We're taking the credit, we're taking the party, we're holding a feast. We're going to get back from where we're going, not part of us, because then we're going to be away from those warm chairs, think about next ones. And when it comes to the long term, it's interesting, is it not beyond the chaotic and unsuccessful management of millions of unearned, but it's also meant how to deal with this in the long term? I haven't heard from the coalition a word about it. There is a high likelihood that however, no viruses will stop and that disease will continue so soon. Is there already, for example, a project on the provision of 3000 or 5000 beds in half a year, so that the third, fourth or fifth wave that this government hopes of should not cry out loud again that there is a lack of beds and a lack of money? It will not be possible to keep the economy shut for so long, it will have to be released. It is like a war: unfortunately, people die, but if everyone were to be barricaded at home, it would not solve anything. At the moment, money is being difficult in commitments, that is, passive if we look at the books and not active. That's the way to nowhere. The state, therefore, has absolutely no doubt... This chaos, this government of infirmities and this coalition, the country is coming to bankruptcy. It's not a joke! Our country is coming to bankruptcy! The future lies with those countries that choose the right priorities. What has happened over the last year shows that health is the right priority that should be, but not in words, but in works. The disease will not disappear anywhere. This virus will replace or replace the virus in the mouth. Health care had to become more capable. The money had to be invested in human resources, not in expensive diagnostic equipment, not in vaccination offices, not in Karin's party members... SIA “Vaccina”... in the firm where it's Axel Roshof, and in such a spirit. Society must be brought to a healthy lifestyle. This means allowing sports, for example. This means education for the new generation, which means schools... assets... Now. And it's not a bike! The outstanding President of Finland, Karl Gustav Mannerheim, has already done so. He's already done it! The school and family must be the place where children get to know a healthy lifestyle.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U62	Mr. Gobzem! I will remind you that on the agenda there is a draft decision “On the task of the Cabinet of Ministers to review trade restrictions imposed during an emergency... “ It Please address the specific draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U63	Yeah. I would like to emphasise to you, Mrs Mūrniece, 'and would weigh decision-making in the long term'. I'm talking about a long-term one that will help... and also related to trade.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U64	Talk about the specific draft decision, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U65	I am referring to the long-term impact on this issue. That is, as has happened in other countries and at the stages of history. So in the long term, we will not be able to hold a hard economy. In the long term, we need to invest in people, health, education. And, of course, that means "in the long term" - already release everyone and let him work. But what do I mean? It's a complex thinking. The money - millions, hundreds of millions - that we put in airBaltic today is actually returned by the state to the company that sells departure tickets. And that's the answer why you don't. And this is a misconception, because you, the government and the coalition, have bad priorities. Bad thinking results from wrong values. From bad values! It is wrong to defend you because you - objectively - cannot defend our society properly because you do not have such values. If the basis is firm - that is, if the fundamental values are strong - then there will be no chaos in decisions either. There will be no need for analysts, vaccination offices, strategic councils and much more. If the compass was right for you in terms of values, then the course of the ship would be right - and it would also be right for the storm. Karina, Pavluta, Raivy Dzintar, Pabrika, Bordan's compass shows wrong because their values are wrong. And so it doesn't matter which one would put behind Kariņš for the Prime Minister - all these coalition representatives have values that are wrong. And neither in peace nor in the storm can this coalition lead to the right decisions. The right decisions always stem from values, from a value system. And at a time when you do not protect local people, Latvian people, you do not protect small business, you do not protect medium-sized business - you do not, in fact, protect anyone! - You get to the wrong solutions. And every day your government, coalition... And that's good for the opposition. For me personally - very much as a politician it works, but... I am sorry for the country, but it is good for me that every day your government is becoming increasingly unpopular, it is already the most unpopular. There have been no more unpopular governments than this for at least thirty years. You're agonizing. Aging, but the problem is this: even if it is politically beneficial for the opposition that you are agonizing, your agony leads to the bankruptcy of the country. And you will have to be responsible for that. And you will have to answer for it before the court. I am deeply convinced of this when I say this today. The nation will never forgive you. Never! You will have to be responsible for the values that you... You bought masks in order to get something back there, it's expensive to buy. You will also have to be responsible for the vaccination process. The vaccination office director does not even know - after Kariņš' very strange question - how many doses are in the vial - in which system you have to look for its answer - in e-class, in some other e-system or in e-health. She'll find out in five days and give an answer. And these are values - they put themselves in positions, their own pay high wages, make all the processes just so that they can do something. But this time changes everything. It's not going to work like butter for the last 30 years. This is not a situation where people will have forgotten two things a week or two after some unpopular events. You've tortured your children for a year, you torture hairdressers, sports teachers, families - all! All of you are tortured! And you will not be forgiven. Whatever you do, no matter how much money you now borrow and share to the right, to the left... But in fact, you're proud of those 500 euros... Let us be honest: EUR 500 for a family with a child... It's a cat's tear! Yeah, it's probably the only one, well, some decision for the people. It's good that it is, but it's a cat's tear - all you've done in a year. In all the figures, we are the last, almost the last, as a country. And you were proud of what you were champions all summer! Not only people are leaving Latvia, finances are also leaving Latvia, business is leaving. Trade also leaves. Even children are now taking them to Estonia for sport. All right, let's go. Only Maxim will remain, but people will have no more of what... I understand that I want to bribe members of the opposition because I do not want to hear the truth. But the truth is that your values, your course, are fundamentally wrong, because you don't know otherwise, you just think so. You think how to get laid down for every thing, also in distress, how to get laid down for every thing. You have no empathy towards society, against people. You can lie. Even in times of crisis, you lie all the time. You climb the Saeima Tribute and lie. Instead of becoming the most popular government ever, you tried to help the people. A Prime Minister who today would have helped the people - helped them with a heartless heart - without stealing, simply helped them at a difficult time - would have reigned for 10, 15, perhaps 20 years, and would have built a monument at the end of his life. But Karins will have one-way ticket to his homeland, at best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U66	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U67	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Well yes, this speech has been very diverse to colleagues, but obviously it must be accepted that not everything that the government is doing at the moment is very good and correct. Much shows this, including the issue of these trade restrictions during an emergency. Why are Members so strongly against ensuring the correct order of trade restrictions? Because Members represent the whole of Latvia - not only elected, let us say, in Riga, but from different sides. And when you survey people and look at the situation in the countryside, you have to say that there are problems with trade. Especially concerned and suffering people in the countryside where these small shops are located. You should not forget that the large chains of shops, the trade chains, are mostly not our compatriots! On the contrary: small rural shops - these are local citizens, citizens' business, property, livelihoods. That is why we have to take this very seriously, as well as the fact that rural people still have to ensure that goods are traded to the maximum possible extent. I would like to say to the Members that not only those Members who currently represent the position are concerned about this situation, but all Members - both the opposition and the independent - because the situation in the country is really worrying. The standard of living of the population, the future of the population of every Member, I think, is very worrying. It is worrying, therefore, that this issue, which is currently under consideration, is also being addressed. I would also like to say something that is very shocking to people. I don't know what it is: the incompetentness of certain ministers or the desire to stand out... In other words, ministers say some specific thing at some point, promise some relief, it takes time, a few days, but the government does not accept it. The government rejects or takes a completely different decision. You can't do that! It shocks people. Many people have not been sitting on computers, on TV. When they hear this kind of statement, they are already in fact inclined to have this relief or benefit, and then suddenly the government accepts the opposite. I would ask the representatives of the government to think strongly about this. Before a minister says something in public in some media or on television, he needs to think about it. If there is a real chance to implement your proposal, then say it, but if not, keep quiet. There's nothing to shock! And if you deceive people, don't be surprised that the government is no longer popular. Go on. On this newly created vaccination office. Well, another bureaucratic institution, in my view. We should learn from other countries. I'm not going to call each other... the Head of State. Probably those who follow us know that the proposal is: if someone wants to increase the number of institutions or officials, then the ministry or institution that proposes this should be automatically reduced... twice as much as... the number of other officials under the authority of that institution. In particular, the creation of a new official must reduce the former two officials. Such a principle would be acceptable. But when it comes to vaccination in general, I agree with the view that private bodies should have been entrusted with this vaccination process and system. In particular, we have many private medical institutions, a variety of health centres - medical institutions with professionals who have contacts not only across the country, but also across Europe and the world. They would perform this task perfectly - with all the supplies of vaccines and everything else. It seems that Mr. Apiņš was who said it. That must be agreed. Officials are no longer solvers. We can see that, in this crisis situation, the civil service is, in fact, showing itself many times as an unnecessary step. And now it is the time to think about reducing the number of ministries, the number of officials. Other expenses. That's the cost to the state... could really save by reducing the number of officials. But it's about this decision. I would ask you to take this into account: this is a very serious decision. If anyone says that the government is serious at the moment... I think this decision will only help to resolve trade restrictions... in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U68	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U69	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Once again on this issue. A debate has also taken place here on the role of the opposition and the opposition to some kind of protruding coalition. However, we all have the opportunity not only to follow today's debate, but also in some way to follow the current - parallel - government sitting, which is now an open sitting. And we can all see clearly how important such a decision, which the opposition has now proposed, is. And those who in some way tried to criticise it... that this decision is some kind of game for the government, I call for the decision itself to be made. The decision shall in no way oblige the removal of existing restrictions or the adoption of new restrictions. The decision makes it very clear which guidelines should be respected as a minimum by the government when taking decisions. And why is this important, colleagues? It's important because a huge log has arrived in the government's house... A huge beam that every minister has begun to put in his shoulder and began to carry. Every one of us now suddenly wakes up and, above all, doesn't understand... I don't understand how the government has made such crazy decisions. Colleagues, imagine: the government ministers who have voted for these decisions themselves now come to light that they do not understand how they have taken this decision! And, of course, successively, each minister, in his interpretation, tells us how much they are currently fighting to get the hairdressers and beauty industry back into normal work. But these populist struggles are not the most important in all this. In this task, the Cabinet of Ministers has one important motif: to assess the impact on the economy, to assess changes in people's habits in a timely manner; to assess in a timely manner how these decisions will affect our economy and to provide support at the right time, at the right time, and not simply to judge how they have reached this decision themselves. Colleagues, the Saeima must give such guidance, otherwise the government sitting simply turns into a theatre of populism that is currently happening and where one or the other minister... It is something unique in our country - the Minister wonders about his own decision! Colleagues! We all voted today for EUR 500 for children, for this one-off allowance. Does anyone wonder how we have come to this decision? The decision has been taken. Another may have voted for another decision in some other way, but... So he knows how he took that decision. Our government is now starting to ask each other questions, when it is seen to the public at large, how do we reach this decision? What a unique comedy! Just like that is our government. And that is why we need this task of the Saeima, which gives clear, clear guidelines, and the Saeima must start to control what the government does. As long as this is not the case, we will immediately come to the amazing decisions of the government. Colleagues, I am calling for support and not for the opposition to interfere with the government's work. The opposition is trying to put the government on the right track, in some frames, so that the government begins to take decisions by weighing them from different sides rather than just taking them unilaterally. I don't even know how these organisations were formed, but... When people no longer have anything to eat - then they notice (at last they notice - after the enormous pressure of society and thus the pressure of the opposition - they see!) that these people have problems, and then chaoticly begin to offer solutions. And, my fellow Members, the auction campaign in the ruling coalition has now started. Colleagues, finally start taking responsibility in government as well as... Members of the Saeima, start giving clear signals to the government on how to work! This cannot be done by the government itself at the moment, and these public meetings only confirm this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U70	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U71	Yeah, thank you. Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I applied to speak, listening to what the coalition Members say. I have the feeling that you have not read this draft decision at all. The draft decision is absolutely positive and complementary to what you are now planning and going to do. And maybe you're afraid that you haven't done anything up to now. And all that has been done has been in the wrong direction. For trading venues too, these decisions have been incomprehensible, chaotic. Why can't one place buy the product, the other can't buy it? I will remind you once again of what I am saying now in almost every sitting of the Saeima: the government has not worked all over last year! It's not new, it's been in the world for more than a year. It appeared in Latvia last spring. And since last spring, there's been a year. There was a summer, during which everyone thought it was very good. It was just logical because in summer, I recall, such respiratory viruses spread less and suffer less. The government had the whole summer - May, June, July, August and September - to develop an accurate plan, not... Now we are talking about the traffic lights principle, but there should have been a very detailed plan: the level of disease is limited to some services we are talking about in terms of limiting trade areas. Again, the question is whether we should have restricted ourselves at all. You know, in Sweden, the government was given the right by the Parliament to adopt measures for the community only at the beginning of this year. All of them until then were only in the form of recommendations. Do you know that Sweden can still gather up to eight people both outside events and at home? In Sweden, all shops work, and restaurants work (they recommend that up to four people can sit at a distance of meters). There people go to the shops! Is there a disaster in Sweden now? No, it's not. And look at what is right here - Estonia - is allowed! And then the question arises: why do we currently have to suffer small shops and do not allow many service providers to work? There is absolutely no reason for this ban. I would say, well, if you compare... The community is a disgusting disease that we are all fed up with, and we want to get rid of it more quickly. And I would say that our government is like a community. All of us are tired of this, and we all want to get rid of that government more quickly. The government and the community - there is a sign of equality between them. We have to put an end to the community, and we also have to put an end to this government. That is why I also call on the coalition Members to think that this government is at the end of the day. The government must go home. If the government is unable to arrange basic things for people to... so pensioners can buy boots in winter, so they don't have to walk through a wet dandruff with all the boots; so they don't have to stand at least 20 degrees on the island at the shops; so that you don't go to the ATM with a shopping basket, as if the pensioner could get their basket to be held full of money... It's a joke about people. Our government is a community. The Coby must fight, the Coby must be put to the edge, and our government must also be put to the edge and sent home. That is my view, and I also call on all the voters, Members, all - the whole of society - to put an end to this pointless government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U72	The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U73	Yeah, thank you. Returning to the draft decision, I draw attention to and really ask colleagues from the opposition to support our proposed draft decision, because it provides that... Considering that restrictions on employees and visitors of trading venues were introduced - even before the announcement of the emergency situation - with amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations of 13 October 2020. 360, but Order No. 6 November 2020 of the Cabinet of Ministers entered into force on 9 November 2020. 655 “Advertising the Emergency” which strengthened restrictions on employees and visitors of trading venues... However, on 5 February 2021, by amending the order of 6 November of the Cabinet of Ministers, it was decided to further strengthen the restrictions on trade already amended and strengthened several times, applying a set of trade security requirements, which provides for an extension of the availability of goods on the spot, and setting additional security requirements for trading venues and strengthening their control. Colleagues! Although the government has adopted ever more stringent and stringent restrictions in several documents in consultation with experts, there has been an increasing incidence of disease, such as the maintenance of disease levels or even an increase in certain periods. This means that the measures adopted were not sufficient and did not solve the situation in substance. So the next: automatically it also means that the measures introduced by the government will not solve the fundamental problem of the disease, because, unfortunately, in my opinion, its disease takes place in a completely different way and there are other focal points for the spread of its infection (let us call it). It is also obvious, therefore, that restrictions that allow only large trading companies to operate during a pandemic period significantly limit the small business segment and that human concentration is ensured instead of dispersing people to ensure that people can buy the necessary products and goods in a distributed way through shops. As has already been pointed out, the government's decision before Christmas, announcing that in the near future it will be practically... and pouring out information about the totallood, caused people to visit the stores in a mass way, and then, after two weeks, the result was massive - elevated! - disease in the population. This is only logical: the less space, the higher the concentration, the higher the risk of disease and also the more disease. Promoting unfair competition by providing only separate segment stores with the possibility to operate, does not promote people's trust in government decisions, does not build people's trust in government and coalition party recommendations and does not promote the desire to respect the constraints imposed by government. In order to be respected, the restrictions must be segmented, well thought out. There is no logic there - to allow people to shop only in large shopping centres (in addition - to shop only partially!) rather than spreading people around several small outlets, thus ensuring that epidemiological safety measures are respected when the product is marketed. Therefore, please support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U74	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U75	Courageous Prime Minister should... and the coalition and the government... If there were a bold Prime Minister, it should be recognised that the virus cannot be won by any administrative methods, anywhere it has been won. Look, the whole European Union... has been slaughtered economies, there are huge debts, and no one is even going to review the approach, but the virus is not won. And that is why the approach needs to be reviewed. If not... I have to tell you about the comedy that's in trade. It's just comedy! People have to stand in those rows at the shops. You don't have to stand on the lines if you drive with wheels. If you drive with wheels, you can enter bypassing the line. But if you get in that store, you can't buy a pan. I needed a pan last Sunday. You can't buy it when you enter the store. Well, how - can't you buy it? You can buy: you go to a shop that's open, you show that you want that pan, and then you have to call the seller who's just standing at the distance of the meter... Two meters away from you, the meters can't be. He says, “You call that number, then we will be able to sell you.” Well, I call that number, they don't even raise the phone, pull my call away. And now you can buy a pan. I'm going out with that pan now, with all those laps laughing, don't let me out of that store, because you can only leave the store alone. Everyone's standing in line. Now it's just comedy! All right, I'm going to the next one. I went to “Depo” and I need heating... the purchase of salt for the water system. To do this, I need to go... I know where it's standing, it takes me five minutes, maximum, but - no! I can pay in that ordinary box office now, according to your rules... I don't know, buy waste bags, I have to buy them in the ordinary box office. And what's everybody else doing? All people, including I put, for example, the salt of heating... And I wasn't the only one there - with that, the salt of heating... and goes to their legal entity compartment, stands in line there all. One of each other's bicho of legal entities cards so you can buy elementary things for your house. He spends twice or three times in the store because of all this madness. In small stores, of course, nothing... either may not be there. Oh, the latest thing is... where those restrictions - which goods may and may not be marketed... now the perfume shops have started trading something, I don't know, socks or... because clothes are as if allowed now... Well, somehow so that people can survive. It's a total chaos! That's because we have this manager with the wrong values and cowardly, and I don't understand anything. He's not the leader, he's put there, he doesn't understand he's a prime minister. Karin doesn't understand he's a prime minister. And the coalition does not understand that this country goes to bankruptcy in this way. But it should be bold to admit... If there were a brave head of state, with the right values, then it should be recognised that the virus cannot be won by administrative methods. No one has won it - anywhere in the world! - by administrative methods. And Europe is the best example of this (you like to refer to Europe). There's nowhere. Now spring will come, the spread of the virus will decrease by itself. And it must be understood that it will never be possible to keep people locked in barricades, and the guide will break at one moment. I understand that you are looking forward to the many money that you will still lend - not how many of those billions are there - which you will not be responsible for. But stop distorting competition, stop laughing at people, stop making pensioners stand at the store row! A pensioner already walks all the shops to buy the cheapest product in each. He's going to a single shop for several stores. It's not like these guys sitting in the Bureau, who's brought to the store by car. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U76	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U77	Hello, colleagues! I hope someone is still following our sitting, at least I have followed this debate and, in the debate on this issue, I want to reflect on a few things. First of all, Mr Feldman's words. Mr. Feldman! Perhaps we do not know anything about what is happening in the government. You said that, thanks to you, government sittings are now open. Is the new conservative party already in opposition? Because we are all well aware of the fact that it is thanks to the opposition, which managed to collect the signatures of an extraordinary sitting in a 24 hours time, which would force the government to take this decision - to decide in the future openly in its meetings on the community - and suddenly... Karin in a year - after years of fighting the community! - suddenly, this revelation of the need for open government sittings. You also made a statement that the proof that the coalition could work constructively is that 500 euros, which you promised to give children... families of children. In fact, the opposite is true. If the coalition were able to work constructively, now these EUR 500 would not be necessary for children. If you are able to work constructively and make meaningful decisions, now you should not throw such help to people who are now desperate. It was necessary to have mechanisms in place to ensure a normal, human life. You have not been able to do this. You understand that all around... whatever you decide, there is a disaster, and you are now simply trying to remove it by mentioning money that should have been given meaningfully and purposefully - giving to those who really need it. Go on. It is very good that the debate was attended by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Mr Miezaiņš, who tried to tell us here that the government was adopting data-based solutions. Mr Miezaiņš, we have submitted to you - to be more correct, Mr Kariņš - a request from Members 'On the validity of decisions taken by your government regarding the prevention of the spread of the Covid-19 disease', which is precisely the trade restrictions that you are talking about so wisely. There are concrete examples of concrete examples that we were told about rather than by us. People came and told us examples from real life, sent out their examples, and asked us to explain why such limitations exist. We transferred these questions to Mr Kariņš, Mr Kariņš sent them to the Minister for Economic Affairs, you tried to respond to them, and unfortunately its answers are simply deplorable. It's been just a check-out. Rarely, you have answered the question in substance, and that is why we have prepared this request, which was sent to you on 3 February. The end of February is coming. You have still not been able to answer, but you will have to answer for it, and we will look at it in the Request Commission, and you will have to answer questions about all these bridal cases. Why, let's say, did you allow the bread paper to be sold, but you didn't allow the foil to be sold? Why can you buy alcohol, cigarettes and all sorts of braids, but can't buy a baby's glove at the first tooth? There are a number of such questions that you will have to answer. You have now bowed down, you said, "You know, we've already changed all this." No, you will have to be accountable for what you have decided so that the whole society can follow along, how reasonable, how meaningful your decisions have been. That is why it was so important that these government meetings are open. Because, unfortunately, neither the public nor us here in Parliament, which must subsequently approve your decisions, have a clear justification for your decisions. You come here with big, scared eyes and try to tell them: everything is bad, so let's do something to be worse. That's not an argument! This is not enough, especially for a society, which then has to do all these stupid things, because if you cannot explain your decisions, it is unfortunately what they are also perceived as a fool. And you degrade not only your authority, the authority of our country, with every decision you make; you degrade, perhaps, the whole system that would be needed so that we can successfully manage the covid crisis. And the result is that really, as I have said from the beginning, you are the greatest plague, you are them - with your own decisions! This government is the main reason why we are so unsuccessful... Why don't you smell like overcoming the crisis. Unfortunately, you cannot do anything without the opposition at all. You have nothing to do with it. The sense doesn't come to you until you just get through one place. And just about these same data-based solutions... A solution based on analyses and data... Mr Kariņš concluded that his government was unable to adopt data- and analysis-based solutions. Only when the opposition questions about the legitimacy of the government's decisions were sent to him. Of these questions suddenly came a revelation to someone: Johaidi, we, too... We're on the blind in here... We're just gonna decide... We decide in the hope that something will happen. You know, this way your work very much resembles anecdotes from Soviet times. Chickens died in a colonose, and the colosians turned to the party secretary, the party leader, with a request to give them advice on what to do. And the party leader said in all seriousness: “You know, we need to put a yellow circle around each chicken, and the problem will happen.” They say, “It will happen?” - “Yes, try.” People went, they tried. “ You know, the plague continues, the chickens continue to die. What do we do?” This: “How didn’t it help?” - “No, it didn’t help.” - “Well, try now for each chicken around to wrap a red square.” They go, wrap, come back after a while and say: “Well, they didn’t work. We have all the chickens dead at all. Nothing helped.’ The leader of the party says: “I was sorry, I had so many nice, interesting ideas to try!” This is the way you are trying to deal with this crisis at the moment. There is no lower justification, no lower analysis anywhere. And here someone tried to blame again: see, the opposition takes no responsibility for anything. Yeah, because... Excuse me, the one who has not yet noticed... Latvia still, at least on paper, includes a democratic state. This means that those who have power, so the coalition... It really has this responsibility, it has the task to act, and the task of the opposition is to keep track of how all this happens, to criticise, to value it and to make it visible to the public. That is what we, the opposition, are doing. So, coalition, you should act responsibly for your part, that is your task. Our duty, in turn, is to evaluate and criticise. We are fulfilling our duty. Start your own as well, and then we will not have to deal with your criticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U78	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to review trade restrictions established during the emergency, ensuring reasonable and balanced decision-making in the long term”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 39, it's 46, it's not. No decision has been taken. The draft decision is therefore rejected. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. The draft decision ‘On the appointment of Katharina Deva as a judge of a district (city) court’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U79	Dear colleagues, At the sitting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 12 February, nine draft decisions on candidates for the position of a judge of the Economic Court were examined. In order to verify the suitability of candidates for the post, the members of the commission assessed the information received. All nominated candidates were heard. The Legal Commission of the Saeima decided that all candidates for the position of a judge meet the set criteria and are suitable for the position. At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 12 February this year, the draft decision “On the appointment of Katarina Devade as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I invite Catarina Sveikis to appoint as a judge of a district (city) court by 8 March 2021.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U80	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the appointment of Katarina Svore as a district (city) court judge”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. The draft decision ‘On the appointment of Kaspars Vecozola as a judge of a district (city) court’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U81	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 12 February, the draft decision “On the appointment of Kaspars Vecozola as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission of the Saeima, I invite Kaspars Vecozola to be a judge of a district (city) court by 8 March 2021. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the appointment of Kaspars Vecozola as a district (city) court judge! Please, let's vote! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Decision on the appointment of Mr Miķelis Zumbergs as a judge of the district (city) court. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member. At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 12 February, the draft decision ‘On the appointment of Mikelis Zumbergs as a judge of a district (city) court’ was considered. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission of the Saeima, I invite Miķelis Zumbergs to be judge of the district (city) court by 8 March 2021.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U82	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U83	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues! I will allow to quote the opinion expressed publicly by the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court in connection with the approval of judges of the Economic Court. ‘ Ten candidates for the office of a judge have been quickly selected, sent for approval to the Saeima. None of them have experience as a judge; only a few of them have worked with the judicial information system. With the exception of some assistants to judges, they do not have organisational experience in the work of the court, which will make it difficult to select the Chair of the court. If I am not mistaken, out of ten candidates, only one candidate has experience in criminal law, because she has worked in the prosecutor's office. The others were mainly related to civil law’ (in insolvency proceedings). ‘ Given that they must start working without the experience of a judge, I feel with them. Currently judges are planned to be extensively trained, but for the time being this idea is only in the stage of the project. The training project should have been ready at the moment when the idea of creating an Economic Court was brought to light. All the shortcomings in the establishment of this court result from the urgency of how this procedure is conducted. It was clear from the very beginning that this was not a six-year issue, but a one-and-a-half-a-half-a-two-year issue." It is a comment of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court on the procedure for establishing the Economic Cases Court. I do not take part in the vote on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U84	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U85	Nothing is to be added. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U86	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the appointment of Mikelis Zumbergs as a district (city) court judge! Please, let's vote! For - 79, for - no, for - 1. Decision adopted. The draft decision ‘On the appointment of Oksana Pullle-Chizova as a judge of a district (city) court’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U87	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 12 February, the draft decision “On the appointment of Oksana Pulle-Čizova as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission of the Saeima, I call on Oksana Pulli-Čižova to be a judge of a district (city) court by 8 March 2021.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U88	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the appointment of Oksana Pullle-Chizova as a judge of district (city) court”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. The draft decision ‘On the appointment of Vija Kalniņa as a judge of a district (city) court’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U89	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 12 February, the draft decision “On the appointment of Vija Kalniņa as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I invite you to appoint Vija Kalniņa as a judge of a district (city) court by 8 March 2021.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U90	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the appointment of Vija Kalniņa as a judge of district (city) court”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. The draft decision ‘On the appointment of a Dagnian Muceniece as a judge of a district (city) court’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U91	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 12 February, the draft decision “On the appointment of the Dagnija Muceniece as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission of the Saeima, I call on Denmark Mucenieki to appoint as a judge of a district (city) court by 8 March 2021.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U92	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the appointment of the Dagnija Muceniece as a judge of district (city) court! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. The draft decision ‘On the appointment of Lubova Kovaļa as a judge of a district (city) court’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U93	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 12 February, the draft decision “On the appointment of Lubova Kovaļa as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Lubov Kowala to be appointed as a judge of a district (city) court by 8 March 2021.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U94	Please call me! We will be voting on the draft decision on the appointment of Lubova Kovaļa as a district (city) court judge! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. The draft decision ‘On the appointment of Aivara Latkovska as a judge of district (city) court’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U95	At the sitting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 12 February, the draft decision “On the appointment of Aivara Latkovska as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I invite Aivars Latkovskis to appoint a judge of district (city) court by March 8, 2021.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U96	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the appointment of Aivara Latkovska as a judge of district (city) court”! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. The draft decision ‘On the appointment of Ieva Jankovska as a judge of a district (city) court’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U97	At the sitting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 12 February, the draft decision “On the appointment of Ieva Jankovska as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I am invited to appoint Ieva Jankovska as a judge of a district (city) court by 8 March 2021. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U98	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the appointment of Ieva Jankovska as a judge of district (city) court”! Please, let's vote! No, 82, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - examination of a request from Members. The request made by Members. Members Ivars Zariņš, Jānis Krišāns, Ivans Ribakovs, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Regina Ločmele, Ivans Klementjevs, Boriss Cilevičs, Jānis Tutins, Arthurs Rubiks and Igors Pimenovs have submitted a request to the Minister for Health Daniels Paviluts “On the avoidance of the Minister for Health in providing certain information in connection with the procurement of Covid-19 vaccines”. The name of Member Ivars Zarins - motivation.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U99	Yes, so the question is the purchase of these legendary vaccines. How has it come to pass that Latvia has bought exactly those vaccines from which European countries are now trying to abandon each other? We asked Mr. Pavluta about this... in the context of a service inspection carried out by him. As you know, a service test... Those who are familiar with the test materials of this service could have a reasonable number of questions. What it was at all about the test of the service, at the end of which there was nothing to discover and at all... to conclude that it is not even clear whether any decisions have been made and... Have decisions been taken at all? Even though... In fact, it would be very simple to find out how these decisions have been made, because we know specifically that one decision has been made, that concrete action has been, that a specific order has been made. And starting to split this whole thread back, you could figure out all this - how this decision has been made, which is actually responsible for it, whether someone has lobbyed it or not. However, the Minister for Health gives us simple phenomenal answers to the specific questions that we had asked him. It is clear from the investigation that this decision was taken at the meetings of 17-18 November. We asked a simple question: who led the meeting on 17 November? The answer was that there was no manager for the meetings. That is the answer about the manager. Go on. When asked what was expressed in concrete terms in the work... This sitting... The response to the opinions expressed by each individual person is that the verification of the service revealed that the meetings of the working group were not recorded and that no video and audio recording were made. It is therefore not possible to clearly identify the views expressed by each of its members at the hearing. So - no protocol, no records, no participants are asked what they have said. The question is, what has been the test of this service? It is clear that the inspection of this service has not been done to detect this possible crime, but, on the contrary, to create a cover for it. We can continue, there are simply the most colossal answers here, which I think is a very good substance for reflection on our law enforcement organs. As long as they do not have the courage to start an investigation, we will continue to investigate it. That is why we have prepared this request. For, let's say, the greatest answer when we ask for this order from Ainars Lāzberg, how it came to be... And in the course of the official examination, the Commission has not obtained any evidence that the Ministry of Health would have ordered an official or working group to take a decision on the purchase of certain doses of vaccine. And this decision was made on the basis of decisions made at meetings, even though in the course of the service investigation they were told that they had no sense at all whether the decisions had been...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U100	Thank you. Consequently, the request shall be submitted to the Requesting Commission. On the agenda - consideration of draft decisions. Draft decision “On Urgency Elimination of the Draft Law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and Proliferation” (No. (Lp872/Lp13)’. Please call me! We will vote on draft decision on urgent repeal of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and Proliferation” (No. (Lp872/Lp13)’. Please, let's vote! For - 88, for - no, for - 1. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and Proliferation” (No. (L 872/Lp13) with effect from 18 February 2021, with effect from 18 February 2021, the withdrawal of the Saeima sitting from the agenda of the Saeima sitting of 18 February 2021 until a subsequent commission order.’ Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and Proliferation” (No. the exclusion of the examination from the agenda of the Saeima sitting on 18 February 2021 until a subsequent commission order’! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The draft law is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. Dear colleagues, it is time for a break. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. Interruption until 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U101	Dear colleagues, The second remote emergency sitting shall continue on 18 February 2021. Draft law “Amendments to Law of the Republic of Latvia”, third, final, reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U102	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues. The Legal Commission of the Saeima and also the Subcommittee on Judicial Policy of the Saeima Legal Commission of the Saeima have done a great deal of work on the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Law of the Republic of Latvia”. We have now reached the third final reading. There are 12 proposals in the table before us today. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns, which provides that the participation of persons in the Commission for the Examination of Advocates shall not constitute a status of official of the State. This proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U103	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U104	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns, which technically clarifies the regulation, stating that a lawyer as a member of the institutions of the Committee of Sworn Advocates of Latvia may not take decisions, participate in decision-making or perform other actions that affect or may affect the personal or property interests of a sworn lawyer, his relatives or business partners within the meaning of the Law “On Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of State Officials”. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U105	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U106	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns, which provides that if the activity of a lawyer has been suspended due to the presence of a lawyer in the state or municipal capital company service, the lawyer is not entitled to operate in the institutions of the Latvian Committee of Sworn Advocates. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U107	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U108	4. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Mr. Janis Bordāns, which provides that if a lawyer fails to pass a qualification test within one year from the application of disciplinary punishment imposed on him, the lawyer shall be suspended from fulfilling his duties until the re-examination of the qualification has been completed. If, on the other hand, the lawyer does not pass this re-examination, he shall be excluded from the number of attorneys. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U109	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U110	5. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partially supported, included 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U111	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U112	6. - the proposal of the responsible Legal Commission, which clarifies the regulation in situations where there is an event of damages due to the activities of the lawyer, provided that the primary consideration is paid from the insurance contract of the group concluded by the Council of Sworn Advocates of Latvia. But if the lawyer has also concluded an individual insurance contract, the amount of the loss exceeding the limit laid down in the group insurance contract... or, where there is no provision for compensation for such loss, is covered by an insurance contract concluded individually by a lawyer. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U113	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U114	7. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Mr. Janis Bordāns to supplement the transitional provisions by stating that the transfer of assets and liabilities to the office of advocates registered in a commercial register should not be considered as a disposal of assets and liabilities. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U115	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U116	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which provides for a clarification of the deadline for amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers regulations, which lays down the procedure for the examination of a sworn lawyer and the fee for them. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U117	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U118	9. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partly supported, included in 10. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U119	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U120	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Legal Commission, which is of a technical nature and provides that amendments to Article 41.2 of this Law and the The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U121	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U122	11. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Is partially supported, included in 12. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U123	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U124	And finally, the last one... 12. - The proposal of the Legal Commission, which is of a technical nature and provides that amendments to Article 114 of this Law concerning insurance of professional activities of sworn advocates and their assistants shall take effect on 30 April 2021. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U125	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U126	Thank you. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I invite you to support the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Law of the Republic of Latvia” at the third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U127	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Republic of Latvia’s Bar Association” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to law on regulated professions and recognition of professional qualifications”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Ieva Krapāne. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U128	Thank you. The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs has examined and supported the third reading of the draft law “Amendments to the law on the regulated professions and recognition of professional qualifications”. No proposals have been received for the third reading. The Social and Labour Commission therefore supported the draft law and invites the Saeima to adopt it at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U129	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Regulated Occupations and Recognition of Professional Qualifications” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Territorial Development Planning”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Territorial Reform, on behalf of the Commission on Administrative Reform, Eriks Pucens. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U130	Hello, colleagues! Administratively, the Territorial Reform Commission worked with the draft law “Amendment to the Territorial Development Planning Law” before the third reading. 13 proposals have been received and have been examined by the Commission. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tomas Plešs, which intends to supplement Section 7 (1) of the Law with point 4.1 of the relevant wording, laying down criteria and procedures for the review of the detailed plan. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U131	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U132	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. I've been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U133	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U134	3. - a proposal from the Minister for the Protection of the Environment and Regional Development. However, we have received a letter from the Minister by which he withdraws this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U135	Thank you. Not put to the vote. Proposal withdrawn. Go on!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U136	4. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tomas Plšs. Partly supported and included in proposal 7.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U137	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U138	5. - the proposal of the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission, which provides for the exclusion of the second sentence of the first paragraph of Article 25. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U139	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U140	6. - the proposal of the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U141	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U142	7. - Administratively, the proposal of the Territorial Reform Commission, which also includes the withdrawn proposal... These views. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U143	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U144	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tomas Plešs, which provides for the exclusion of Article 7 of the draft law - Appendix to Section 27 of the law with Part 3.1. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U145	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U146	9. - the proposal of the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission. It is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U147	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U148	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tomas Plšs. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U149	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U150	11. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tomas Plšs. Partly supported and included 12. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U151	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U152	12. - the proposal of the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U153	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U154	13. - the proposal of the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U155	And Members also support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U156	I call on my colleagues to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U157	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Territorial Development Planning” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour, Member Evita Zālīte–Grosa. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U158	Hello, honourable Members! The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs has examined and supported the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child” (No. 908/Lp13). The aim of the draft law is to extend the concept of the Honorable Family, which was launched in 2012, which supports families of large children with special certificates, providing them with various types of facilitations, and to mark the next stage by including families caring for children with disabilities in the programme. The Society Integration Fund in cooperation with the Ministry of Welfare has drafted the draft regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, but the adoption of these regulations is closely related to the Law on the Protection of Children's Rights, in which it is necessary to make amendments included in this draft law to include – in addition to large families – families who care for children with disabilities. The first paragraph of Section 26 of that law is to be supplemented by the words ‘and a family cared for by a disabled child’. The Commission on Social and Labour Affairs calls for urgency to be given to the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U159	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Children” as urgent! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U160	Colleagues, on behalf of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs, I ask for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U161	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law has been adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U162	The deadline for submitting proposals. Please stipulate that the proposals are to be submitted by 12 noon on Monday 22 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U163	So, 22 February this year at 12:00. And consideration of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U164	And at second reading, the draft law will be discussed by the Saeima at its meeting on 25 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U165	And the sitting of the Saeima - 25 February. Thank you. Draft law “Amendment to the Invalidity Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour, Member Evita Zālīte-Grosa. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U166	The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs has examined and supported the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Invalidity” (No. 909/Lp13). This is closely linked to the previous draft law. In order to receive the Honorary Family Card, families taking care of children with disabilities also need to amend the Invalidity Law by providing in Article 3.1 for the right to process the information included in the disability information system to the Secretariat of the Society Integration Fund. The Commission on Social and Labour Affairs also asks for urgency to be given to this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U167	Thank you. Please call me! Please vote in favour of the urgent recognition of the draft law on disability law! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals. For urgency, forgive me! The urgency... The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U168	On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, please support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U169	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Inese Ixten. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U170	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima and colleagues! I would, however, like to talk a little about this honorary family card, and I am very sorry that you led this bill as a matter of urgency, because the functionality and offer of this plastic discount card for the Honorary families is quite weak and subject to discussion by the committee responsible. In my opinion, this is not exactly what families with children with disabilities really need. I can give you examples. The State discount for this card is on public transport tickets: 50 per cent - from the full price of the ticket for the adult, 40 per cent - from the subscription ticket, 90 per cent - from the full price for the student up to the age of 24, and 100 per cent - on public holidays. There is also a public tax discount... 0,5... the strengthening of ownership from the value of immovable property. There are five options that people do not even use so often. And that's the national discount basket. And then there comes a whole line of shops that offer mostly 10 percent discounts. There are also bigger, but now it's mostly. And also the fuel discount, but I must say, with Rimi or Maxima card you can get much more discounts. Children with disabilities need other services. For example, specialised children's footwear. The child's leg grows, and the state does not ensure as many pairs of shoes as necessary to specialize in... There is also a need for specialized car seats, with which... We recently had the new moms of the Theodore Juris Foundation, but the solution has not yet been found. Children with disabilities need physiotherapists, massagers, swimming pools and other health issues... experts available. These families need moments of inspiration, which can be provided by specially designed services and institutions. Mothers need a sick leave because when they go to neighbouring countries to carry out the rehabilitation necessary for the child, which is not provided in Latvia, the Latvian doctor does not write it, and the foreign doctor does not do it. Well, that's how I can go on and on. If you open the disability card and... what is being provided to people with disabilities - that is much, much more. And this honorary family card doesn't keep with you at all. In the context of an annotation of the draft law, first of all, the financial calculation was inconceivable with regard to the use of public transport. I would like to say that people with disabilities and their assistants are already provided with this service. It should be noted here that children with disabilities are transported mainly by cars and specially adapted cars. And very many cannot even use public transport. Mother Dace, who raised a child with a disability, said that the child and the wheelchair weigh about 90 kilograms, and it was very difficult to get into a train or a bus, as well as received instructions from other passengers to quieten the small and not allow him to swung on the irons, otherwise he would be laid out of public transport. Secondly, an honorary family card is awarded between 7 and 24 years of age. It would be good if all children would suddenly become healthy when they reached the age of 24. There are 4000 eternal children in Latvia. And for many, unfortunately, the state of health has been deteriorating for years. I asked two many children’s mothers what they thought about the honorary family card. Mother Ellene, who brought up three young children, told me that she could be thrown away as well because she didn't use it. The second mother, who brought up six children, said that it may not be as good a card, because Rimi or Maxima can be used for a fuel discount... discounts in stores - 10 percent - are insignificant discounts. Public transport shall not be used. Only “Jānis Roze” buys something in the bookstore. She stressed that the discounts related to health care and access to doctors would be much more important. A much greater amount of state support is needed to provide real assistance and family discounts. And it must be planned in the state budget, and it must be in accordance with state policy - family and child policy. It should be noted that the issue of family and child policy in Latvia is under any criticism, because since 2017, there have been no policy planning documents in the country that would show the priorities, goals and plans set by the country. Already in 2019, when I started working in the Saeima, I visited President Egil Levit twice to discuss the situation of children in the country. I also went to the Minister for Welfare on this matter, but nothing has happened in this area. Since the work of the Ministry is organized according to the annual work plan, which is prepared by each department, taking into account planning documents and strategies, it is not understandable what is happening in the Ministry and what work is done if such planning document is not already for four years at all. However, if there are no plans and tasks to be done, there is no need to plan money in the budget either. My call: however, we still need to take stock of this map and think about the services that are available, what those people with disabilities really need. But I am in favour of granting honorary family status to families with children with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U171	I closed the debate. For the Commission, please... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U172	Yeah. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U173	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on disability law! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals and the time of the hearing.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U174	The deadline for submitting proposals is Monday, February 22, at 12 noon. And consideration by the Saeima at second reading - 25 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U175	So the deadline for tabling proposals is 22 February at 12 noon, and the next sitting of the Saeima will be 25 February. Thank you. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Vocational Education”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Jānis Vucāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U176	Madam President, I am very respectful of you. Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Vocational Education” has been prepared at the initiative of the Ministry of Education and Science. Its aim is to further improve the regulatory framework for the implementation of the reform of the content of vocational education and training. This includes the expression of provisions of the law (on professional qualifications and types of vocational education programmes) in new versions. The proposed amendments to the law strengthen the possibility to use the implementation of a modular approach in vocational education and also the use of this approach in adult education, as it is considered as one of the means to promote compliance of vocational education programmes with the medium-term... forecasts of labour market developments. As a result, they would be more involved in vocational education institutions in providing adult education services. These amendments also offer a solution for fulfilling the task given by the legislator to the Cabinet of Ministers - to draft and submit amendments to the Law on Vocational Education to the Saeima in order to bring this law into line with several norms already introduced in the Law on Education. It should be noted that the implementation of this task has been significantly delayed, as Paragraph 80 of the Transitional Provisions of the Education Act provides that this task had to be completed by 31 December 2018, i.e. already two years ago. The amendments to the Law on Vocational Education are also related to the fact that on 5 September 2017, the previous government of Latvia gave the Ministry of Education and Science the task of ensuring the acquisition of monitoring data on the employment of graduates of vocational secondary education institutions and on their salaries by 31 December 2020. So far, however, this task has not been strengthened by appropriate legal standards. Such regulatory framework is necessary by law to ensure that the relevant statistics are legally available for inclusion in the national education information system. The amendments to the law also concern the regulation on the approval of the regulations of an educational institution, so that this process does not conflict with the relevant norms of the Education Law. The Education, Culture and Science Commission examined the draft law before the first reading and decided unanimously to invite the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading. I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U177	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Vocational Education”! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U178	The Education, Culture and Science Commission decided to ask the Saeima to set the deadline at three weeks, so the deadline would be 11 March 2021.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U179	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 11 March this year. Thank you. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Aigars Bikše. Please! ( Pause) Yeah, we're seeing you now. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U180	Yeah, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, In the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” has been prepared for examination at first reading. Please support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U181	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aigar Bikšem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U182	I'm sorry, I guess I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U183	Yeah, thank you. Then we close the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U184	Please set a deadline of two weeks.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U185	So the deadline for proposals is 4 March this year. Thank you. Draft law “Amendments to the Patent Law”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Ritvars Jansons. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U186	Hello! At its meeting of 10 February, the Commission for Education, Culture and Science has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Patent Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 773/Lp13) and supported its first reading by the Saeima. The draft law “Amendments to the Patent Law” provides for the introduction of a European patent with unitary effect, which will coexist with national patents and the classic European patent. The draft law provides for amendments related to the implementation of the Patent Administration Information System. The draft law also provides for improvement of provision of state administration services related to the administration of patents. At present, inventions in Europe can be protected by a national patent granted by the competent national authority (the Patent Office in Latvia) and limited by the national territory and by a European patent granted by the European Patent Office in accordance with the Convention of 5 October 1973 on the Granting of European Patents. However, the European patent is not automatically in force in all the Member States of the Convention on the Grant of European Patents, and the European patent applicant must choose the countries in which he wishes to protect the invention, as well as the patent granted in those States for a short period of time. Given that this process involves considerable additional costs, Regulations implementing enhanced cooperation on the creation of unitary patent protection have been adopted in the European Union and in the Council of the European Union, as well as an international agreement on the creation of a Unified Patent Court providing for the creation of a European patent with unitary effect, which will coexist with national patents and the classic European patent. Therefore, as the explanatory memorandum to the bill states, “the Patent Law needs to be supplemented by the term of a European patent with unitary effect and the term of the agreement establishing the Unified Patent Court”. It is also necessary to identify cases where disputes are settled on the basis of Article 32 (on jurisdiction) of the Unified Patent Court Agreement, taking into account Article 3 of the Unified Patent Court Agreement (on the scope of the Agreement). A European patent with unitary effect will provide for the invention of a European patent with unitary protection in those Member States of the European Union which will ratify the international agreement establishing the Unified Patent Court by providing for unitary patent litigation and by providing for the possibility of settling disputes concerning European patents, European patents with unitary effect and supplementary protection certificates before a single and centralised patent court, rather than in each Member State individually. This will allow businesses to save their litigation costs without duplication of judicial proceedings with the different courts in the Member States involved. The draft law also provides for changes related to implementation of the Information System for Patent Administration and improvement of provision of state administration services. The draft law was supported by all 11 Members present at the Commission's meeting. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U187	I thank Mr Janson for his detailed presentation of the draft law at first reading. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Patent Law! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U188	The Commission set the deadline for the submission of proposals at two weeks. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 4 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U189	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 4 March this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Cielēns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U190	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! At its meeting of 10 February, the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission examined and approved for the first reading the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” (No. 850/Lp13). This draft law is a draft package - it goes hand in hand with the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement", which is the main one, and the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is responsible. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” contains two major amendments. First. It sets out what is meant by outstanding tax liabilities and revises and expands the exclusion rules. The law provides that candidates and tenderers are to be excluded from participation in procurement. It is also foreseen that tax obligations are not fulfilled if the taxpayer has not submitted tax returns and the relevant information is publicly available, as well as if the taxpayer has a total amount of tax debts of more than EUR 150 (with the exception of taxpayers for whom the term of payment is extended, distributed within time limits, deferred or redistributed). Second. The second amendment is intended to change the fact that the State Revenue Service is obliged to update the information on the tax debt on a daily basis. Information is published on the State Revenue Service website. It is also established that this type of information is publicly available for a period not exceeding three years from the date of entry into force of the statutory tax return. The draft law was unanimously supported by the Commission. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U191	Thank you, Mr Cielen, for presenting the draft law at first reading. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U192	The time limit for the submission of tenders shall be 11 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U193	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals is 11 March this year. Next on the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Saeima Election Law”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Viktors Valainis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U194	Highly honored Head of the sitting! Colleagues! On behalf of the Commission, I am reporting on the draft law on Amendments to the Saeima Election Law. The Commission has examined the relevant draft law, which, by its very nature, provides for opportunities for the Diaspora to participate in elections abroad, choosing the area for which it will cast its vote. Now... The current procedure implies that if Latvians living abroad, our voters participate in the elections, this voice automatically goes to the Riga electoral district. Currently, these are eight to nine votes, which come directly to the Riga electoral district. This law provides for an opportunity for Latvians living abroad to choose the respective area where to give their voice. Accordingly, in the Commission, colleagues, there was a very wide-ranging discussion - with the involvement of experts! - on this matter. The debate was also wide-ranging among Members, colleagues who made proposals for both radical recasting of the electoral system and improving the current electoral system and came to their conclusions. However, before notifying the Commission's decision, I would like to state the opinion of the external experts. One of the experts was Mrs Pinto, who congratulated the Commission very much on the fact that this issue of the Diaspora was being addressed, pointed out a number of issues affecting this law and pointed out that this could create an additional burden - costs for the Central Electoral Commission and also for political parties. Overall, the draft law was not viewed as positive, but welcomed the fact that there was a wish to work. But! Mrs Pinto also stressed that there is a research-based fact that Latvians living abroad feel more of belonging to their region than Latvia as a whole. At the meeting of the Commission, the Ministry of Justice also expressed its opinion on the draft law, which acknowledged at the meeting of the Commission that in general the problem exists and the problem needs a solution. And a number of critical comments were also made to the current proposal, which should be eliminated in the future review of the draft law. The Central Electoral Commission also expressed in the Commission that this is an existing problem which would require a solution. The head of the Central Electoral Commission outlined the issue of improving the electoral register system, especially with regard to Latvians living abroad, it is still a very dependent issue on which the committee should work. Mr Eglāja, a member of the Central Electoral Commission, referred to the various practices in which this issue is being dealt with in the European Union. Let me just give you a few examples. One example was that there are countries where only in 2019 citizens living abroad were given the opportunity to participate in elections at all. But, for example, in the Czech Republic, the lottery procedure is taking off an area where these foreign voices will be added to the particular elections. On the other hand, Estonia has exactly the kind of regulation that this draft law is currently proposing. The Legal Bureau of the Saeima referred to the risks of constitutiveness that exist in this draft law and that apply precisely to this limited... Riga... the number of elected Members, which shall also be noted by the Ministry of Justice. But, as the draft law has also been pointed out by the draft law, in the course of the subsequent examination of the draft law, this norm would be excluded from the draft law; it would also be initiated by itself, and it would be excluded. It is equally important to note that the Legal Bureau of the Saeima made it clear that this draft law does not have any drawbacks that could not lead to further progress, and that it would be possible to regularise everything in future work and correct the idea contained in the draft law to start operating in real life. Colleagues! After a long debate, the Commission, having heard all the experts' views, voted and decided to support this draft law at first reading. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U195	Thank you, Mr Valaiņš, for your report. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Uldis Budric. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U196	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me say, as a Member elected from Kurzeme, this idea seems to me de facto interesting and should be "in favour" of these amendments, but... Although Mr Valaiņa very clearly and extensively highlighted the problems that were discussed at the committee meeting, it was precisely these risks of constancy as indicated by the Legal Bureau and the Ministry of Justice that placed too little emphasis on them. The parliamentary elections that this Member has drawn up... the draft law cannot be supported at first reading, because it is precisely the first amendment, Article 1 of the draft law... infringe the principle of proportionality as set out and enshrined in the Treaty. And Mr. Valaiņš himself acknowledged this and agreed to it at the commission meeting. What do I mean? If the idea of the Diaspora... Changes in electoral order seem to be supported by other Members as well, but either an alternative or a new draft law that would be without these risks of constitutiveness must be drawn up, and I would support it. It would simply be very amusing if the Saeima, at first reading, voted in favour of the draft law and norms... and also annotation is... which is against the Constitution and its substance. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for this draft law not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U197	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U198	Colleagues! On my behalf, I would just like to add... and also confirm on behalf of the applicants that the concerns expressed by the experts... and also, as the rapporteur said, referring to the Bureau of Legal Affairs... The Legal Bureau made it clear that there were no risks which could not be repaired in the future legislative process, and this was also confirmed by the rapporteurs at the commission meeting. It's a section... At the Commission's meeting, neither of the Members insisted that its title should be left in the draft law. On the contrary, it was stressed that it could be removed at second reading, because the rest of the draft law is visible and should be developed. I would like to draw attention to the need to start work on this type of amendment now so that this regulation enters into force a year before the parliamentary elections. That will not be - definitely not! - a simple task, but it can be done by involving all experts, the Central Electoral Commission, the Ministry of Justice, as well as the Ministry of the Interior to prepare this law so that it can really work and that, in the next elections, those who are outside Latvia and want to participate in elections would have this choice - for example, voting either on the constituency of Kurzeme or on the constituency of Latgale... depending on where the person is most, where he feels the person most. And not just... In addition, I think that this issue of membership could also raise the activity of political parties, addressing voters outside Latvia, as well as the wish of voters themselves to participate in elections, voting for people they know, who represent the regions from which they have left. And this draft law clearly offers... And I think these references to the risks of constancy... both at the commission meeting, where it was clearly identified and was also on the part of the applicants... this commitment was clearly heard... that it will be excluded from second reading, and now, now, in this debate, from the parliamentary troupe... to the first reading. In my opinion, this is already enough to be able to continue this debate and indeed to have this draft legislation prepared for second reading already much clearer and more intelligible... how this whole process will happen. We would not take time and could start this debate seriously right now. It is a very long time since this draft law was submitted to the Saeima, passed on to the Commission, and I think we should go further. I have a feeling: if we were to support it today at first reading, it would be a great challenge for this bill to be adopted years before the Saeima elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U199	Mr Dolgopolov, would you have four minutes? If not, we will continue the debate after a break.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U200	I'll try.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U201	Please! Mr Dolgopolov, your name.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U202	The problem outlined in this bill is understandable and clear. Emigration has increased and will increase at such a rate that in principle there is a risk that half of the elected members will come from Riga region. This problem is understandable. By the way, today there is no prediction of what the situation will be after the end of the pandemic - or there will be a decline... as it will depend on the pace of development following the pandemic and whether it will facilitate emigration or facilitate re-migration. So there is this problem. The solution that is offered is just one way. And so the first question to be answered is whether we want to change this system by October 2022, when the elections will take place. If we want to do so, then we should try to do it; if not, then all its negotiations are unnecessary. If we want to do this... Today too... I understand that the coalition rejected this bill. We also do not have any consensus as to whether or not to support this particular draft law. Another thing is open: the Saeima Election Law. Thus, amendments can be incorporated into it, but then it would be a request to the National Administration and Municipal Commission - to propose an extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals, and the support of the Saeima for this extension will indicate whether we are prepared to change something or not, because there are also very different solutions here. The single electoral register, where there are problems and (not to be heard) ... the choice of voters for what area... They feel belonging to an area. And so on, and so on. The second moment, which is very important here, is that amendments to the Constitution must be prepared at the same time. That's why I think if we're here today... Whatever the outcome of the vote... The result of the vote is that we will continue with this work. And I would call on the Commission to propose an extension of the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law that has been opened up to it, so it will also be known what and how we will do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U203	Thank you. I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, what would you add?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U204	No, there is nothing to add on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U205	Please call me! Please vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Saeima Election Law at first reading! Please, let's vote! For - 24, for - 37, for - 27. Draft act at first reading was rejected. Dear colleagues, It's time for a break. There has been a record of the presence of Members. Abort until 17:45 a.m. Please return to work accurately at 17:45. Thank you. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U206	Dear colleagues, We will continue our second remote emergency session on February 18th. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Museum of Occupation of Latvia”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Evija Papule.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U207	Good evening, Madam President. Currently we are working with the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Occupation Museum of Latvia” (No. 575/Lp13), second reading. I would remind you that the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Occupation Museum” is related to the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Construction” (No. 574/72Lp13) and changes planned therein regarding the competence of the building board. The planned changes harmonise these requirements in both laws and do not change the current competence of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development regarding the project of construction of memorial complex of the victims of Soviet occupation. In accordance with Rule 95 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, no proposals were tabled for second reading, and we therefore say that the draft law for second reading was supported by the Education, Culture and Science Commission and we call on you to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U208	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Occupation of the Museum of Latvia” at second reading! Please, let's vote! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U209	Thank you. On behalf of the Commission, I call for the deadline for the third reading to be set on 31 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U210	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 31 March this year. Dear colleagues, And now on the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxation in Free Ports and Special Economic Zones” (No. 681/Lp13), first reading. It was submitted by Members Ilze Indricsone, Ramona Petraviča, Jānis Iesalnieks, Uldis Budriķis, Gatis Eglitis, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Romanas Naudiņš and Edmunds Teirumnieks. and the alternative draft law ‘Amendments to the law on the taxation of ports and special economic zones’ (No. 931/Lp13), first reading. It was submitted by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Ilze Indricksone.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U211	Good evening, colleagues! In its meetings of 3 February and 9 February of this year, the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission looked at the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Tax Application in Free Ports and Special Economic Zones” submitted by the Group of Members (No. 681/Lp13). This draft law was submitted to the Saeima for a very long time - in May 2020, and the nature of the draft law and the desire of the applicants to change this law were related to the application of additional tax incentives to the Liepaja Special Economic Zone, which... provides for additional tax relief on investments in the workforce. Since this draft law was submitted already in May last year and then the Saeima amended the law “On taxation in free ports and special economic zones”, where the same, equivalent, tax incentives were granted to Latgale Special Economic Zone and Rezekne Special Economic Zone, then part, much, of the regulations and points of this draft law were included in the law already last year by decision of the Saeima. Therefore, when assessing the substance of this draft law, the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission supported it at its first meeting, where it looked at and decided to prepare an alternative draft law, without altering the nature and application of the ideas of the draft law, but with the exception of the obsolete regulations already in force in the law. In so far as I call for support to be given to the draft alternative laws drawn up by the Commission on behalf of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes) and on behalf of the Commission, I call on the group of Members not to support the draft laws tabled, to reject them.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U212	Thank you. Colleagues, the debate is possible on both draft laws together. No Member has applied for this debate. So we will vote. Let us first vote in favour of the draft law tabled by Members, on behalf of which the rapporteur calls on the Commission to reject. Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Application of Taxation in Free Ports and Special Economic Zones” (No. 681/Lp13) at first reading! Please, let's vote! For - 3, for - 81, for - 3. Draft law has been rejected. Let us now vote in favour of the alternative draft law tabled by the commission responsible and called on by the committee rapporteur to support it. Please call me! Vote on Alternative Draft Law Amendments to the Law on Taxation in Free Ports and Special Economic Zones (No. 931/Lp13) at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has therefore been approved. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U213	The deadline for submitting proposals is two weeks, that is, 4 March of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2196-U214	Thank you. Consequently, proposals may be submitted by 4 March of this year. Colleagues! We have therefore examined the agenda of the sitting. Questions put forward by Members. Members Stepanenko, Švecova, Sprūde, Kazinovskis and Tavars presented the question “On the use of personal protective products and facial masks in educational institutions”, which we hand over to the Minister of Health for their response. And Members Stepanenko, Sprūde, Tavars, Gobzems and Švecova put the question “On falsely provided information by the Minister at the Parliamentary Questions Commission meeting on 17 February this year”, which we submit to the Minister for Education and Science for reply. Time for notifications. Dear colleagues, The Presidium of the Saeima has received information that the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has finished work on the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection” (No. 934/Lp13) and invite the Saeima Bureau to convene a meeting of the Saeima to discuss the draft law at second reading. So the Saeima Presidium plans to convene the Saeima sitting today. After about 15 minutes, let us begin the Saeima sitting to consider this bill. There's also a record of Members. Registration has taken place. Thank you. As a result, I closed the second remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 18 February this year. See you in 15 minutes.
