ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U1	Colleagues! We are continuing this evening with the agenda of the Saeima's remote emergency session of 2 December 2021. We continue the debate on the draft law “The Law of the Holy Peter”. So we stayed with the debate... to 4. - Member Pimenova's proposal. Name in the debate for Member Janis Butan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U2	I am sorry, I have not applied in the debate. It was left over from the previous time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U3	Thank you. So the floor in the debate for Member Sandis Riekstins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U4	I refused.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U5	He also refused. The floor in the debate for Member Ritvars Jansons. Please! For the second time in the debate, please have the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U6	Hello! The Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments states: “The preservation, maintenance, repair and restoration of the cultural monument shall be carried out by the owner (holder) of the cultural monument at his own expense.” Until now, the municipality of Riga has invested only a small amount in the church of Peter, and I do not see a plan how the municipality of Riga will finance the reconstruction of the church. The Duma coalition has not yet agreed on the budget for next year, and where there is a guarantee that it will agree on a loan to the church if there was a very small majority of Members' votes to claim the City Council for Peter's church. Whether the coalition of the Council will be ready for a loan of €35 million, knowing perfectly that it will take money, not from revenue, but from borrowing, and that it will be necessary to give up many of the social needs of the city's citizens. 35 million as the necessary amount for the reconstruction of the architectural monument of national importance has been estimated by the National Cultural Heritage Office. There are doubts as to the receipt of such a loan. With the restoration of independence in Latvia it is an age when real estate belongs to the state. The State and municipalities must retain only the assets necessary for the performance of the functions of the State and the municipality. It should be noted that even outstanding cultural and historical values – churches, manors and castles – are in private property in Europe's cultural space. I call for my Member's proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U7	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr Asheraden, or what will you comment on?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U8	Hello, dear colleagues! The Commission for Education, Culture and Science has not supported Member Pimenov's proposal that the Holy Peter Church is transferred to Riga City Municipality.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U9	Thank you. So let's vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. – Member Pimenova's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 27, for - 27, for - 27, for - 13. However, the proposal has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U10	Thank you, that's... Yes, the proposal is not... Yes, thank you. 5. - Member Pimenova's proposal. It is not possible to vote in this case.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U11	But there is a debate, but Members have not applied in the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U12	Yeah, okay, thank you. 6. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. About... It is Section 4 of the Law on the Legal Independence of the Holy Peter Church of Riga. And with this article, the Commission for Education, Culture and Science determines that the Holy Peter Church of Riga is transferred to the foundation of the Holy Peter Church of Riga, consisting of the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Latvia and the Holy Peter Church of the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U13	Thank you. We are opening a debate. In the debate I shall give the floor in writing to the Member who has been tabled. And that's Member Igor Pimenov. Please have your first word in the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U14	Good evening, colleagues! Good evening, honourable chair of the sitting! I ask you to unite the times.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U15	Your times are united. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U16	Thank you. Colleagues, let us bear in mind that the purpose of the law is to ensure the preservation and protection of the Holy Peter Church of Riga and its cultural and historical value. Accordingly, the task of the law is to establish property rights to Peter's church to ensure financial maintenance, management, restoration and especially restoration of a cultural monument of special importance in the country. However, the members of the Committee on Education, Culture and Science have, in a large majority, raised its religious character as a mantra by repeating the same words that the church should belong to the Church, although after the adoption of the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Return of Property to Religious Organisations in 1992 there was no day when Peter’s church would have been taken away from the Church and when it would not have been possible to hold church services. If the church is church, then let's get Peter's church back in the position it was in before the end of World War II. Let's take away everything that Peter's church had equipped with in the 1970s, carrying out reconstruction works with the aim of creating a cultural centre that would be related to the promotion of Riga's urban and architectural development to institutions and concert activities. In addition, the tourist center as a source of revenue - the church is equipped with a elevator to view the platform in the tower. This feature was equipped with an auxiliary room, a ladder, and a tour of the building. Let's get it out of here, but let's start with the elevator. Have you ever had a lift in the church in Peter? Never. However, when preparing the bill in the committee for the second reading, it turned out that the Church also needs all the equipment that ensures the functioning of the tourist center. So the church needs a tourism centre, not a church, so when the authors of the bill... and then for the second reading, the Saeima Commission determined the elevator as an organic fragment of the church, an indistinguishable part of property, the bill “Law of the Holy Peter Church” immediately became the bill of the elevator and not the church. We're now looking at the draft elevator law. The second question. Will the lift be sufficient to carry out the restoration of Peter’s church, in particular restoration, rather than the maintenance of owners’ financial standing alone. Of course not. In order to carry out this mission, the applicant must prove on his property that he has the funds to carry out the maintenance and restoration of Peter’s church. What should be the document so that it can be perceived as proof of funding? The best evidence would be a long-term deposit account extract. Another option is an audited annual report, which would point to a stable financial situation in the balance sheet, i.e. sound assets and small external debts. That could also be a guarantee. Did the Commission have such documents at its disposal? No one showed them to the members of the Commission. The Head of the Commission named to the Members of the Saeima a letter signed by the German Bundestag, which refers to EUR 33 million. What is it about funding? The letter is accompanied by an annex entitled ‘materials for the meeting of the Budget Committee of the Bundestag’. These are the material of the sitting, not the guarantee. If the material of the sitting is a decryption of the German Government's budget, then the amount to which the Holy Peter Church of Riga can claim is not clearly read out of it. It is also unclear what figures the above 33 million come from. My question to Members of the Saeima, former Latvian ministers and ministers - would you sign an order on the basis of such materials to transfer an object of national importance to a private person? However, the very polite letter to which the material of the meeting of the Budget Committee of the Bundestag has been added is also important, since the letter mentions the conditions that must be fulfilled under the German Federal Budget Law so that Germany can finance the reconstruction of the church. Other information: ‘The German Bundestag has committed EUR 33 million to cover the costs of the reconstruction project when a specific reconstruction project is prepared.’ ( End quoted) Did the Saeima Commission receive or at least have seen a reconstruction project? No, no. Another quote: “The development of the project should involve an experienced architecture office and highly qualified civil engineering specialists.” ( End quoted) Has the foundation already involved this level of architecture office and ordered a service? There was no word for it in committee meetings. Whether Germany is ready to finance the reconstruction of the Riga Holy Peter Church, the German Ambassador diplomat did not actually answer. The German Bundestag Member who signed the letter is no longer a Member. On the basis of the parliamentary roll of order, I submitted to the Bureau a proposal to refer the draft law back to the commission responsible in order to obtain additional financial documents on the financial situation of a potential applicant for whom the commission responsible proposes to establish property rights to the Riga Holy Peter Church, as well as proof of the ability to attract the necessary funding for the restoration and maintenance of the church. Meanwhile, I conclude that the foundation has no funds to maintain and restore the church. The foundation cannot be entrusted with the taking over of Riga’s Holy Peter’s Church. I call for the 'no' vote on proposal 6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U17	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Aigar Bikšem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U18	Good evening, honourable chair of the sitting! Dear colleagues, Yes, I will also call for the 'no' vote on this proposal. The Holy Peter Church of Riga is an important cultural heritage for society. It is also a space for religious ceremonys. However, I think that, given the number of fellow practitioners in the congregation, the church is often too big for the foundation’s religious ceremony. In my opinion, using the slogan “church” we need to understand that in the case of Peter’s Church it may not be entirely true. In the contemporary society of Latvia, the object of such volume cannot be restored, maintained as a means of... corresponds to the “church”. These will certainly be public resources. Whether it is German or Latvian taxpayers' money, we do not know at the moment, but certainly it will be public money, for which the building will be restored and maintained. And, as Mr Feldman said earlier in the debate, the coming years... after 10-20 years - how the foundation will be able to host and where to attract money... If we realize that the building is too big for the foundation and for the needs of the congregation and for the restoration of the building... will need public funding for this restoration and maintenance, then the question is: Why hand over St. Peter's Church - a huge, invaluable symbol of Riga - to foundation? Has such a foundation restored an equivalent object with which resources, projects, the foundation has worked so far? In any competition, by choosing a manager who would be best able to work with such a huge, important object - an important thing for the city, important for the country - we would like to choose the most serious and most capable candidate. Yeah, maybe I'll let you... Yeah, I'd say... you would call me crazy if, for example, I offered to hand over the history of friends to the “Shobenbral Order” Riga Castle, because it was built as a military object, and if I said “military military”, it would also sound probably right. Why do we talk about the foundation in the case of the Holy Peter Church of Riga, and this seems adequate to us: this offer? By rejecting the transfer of St. Peter's Church to the city of Riga, we will now vote for the transfer of an invaluable symbol of Riga to the foundation. Unfortunately, I cannot support this decision; I will ask for a 'no' vote. I hope that in future, in future, the city and foundation of Riga will be able to agree, negotiate and agree on a common solution and cooperation, and I will be very happy to see such offers and to support such offers in the third amendments. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U19	Name to Member Ivar Pug. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U20	Good evening! Welcome. Ladies and gentlemen! Colleagues! Perhaps it will be a bit to repeat the previous speaker, but, colleagues, the desire to clean up things and to hand them over to a decent, careful, knowledgeful owner must, of course, be welcomed and very current at the moment, but here these good feelings end, because with the vote on the bill “The Law of the Holy Peter of Riga” we will probably give free of charge to a private foundation a national cultural monument, over the centuries of the symbols of Riga, a building that is on the UNESCO Heritage List and so on, and so on. And it would also be normal if the board did not have one representative of the Latvian congregation and four representatives of the Riga Holy Peter Church, which was founded in October of this year and consists of German and Latvian Lutheran churches, if there were no six representatives of German and two representatives of Latvia. That's the proportion. We do our own conclusions. Moreover, one of the members of the governing board of a foundation representing a German party has the right to represent the foundation and to dispose of possible funding from the German Bundestag. Go on. The founder informed the commission that in 2020 he had a well-designed church conceptual reconstruction project with concrete amounts carried out by German and Latvian specialists. The project was presented in the Bundestag and the amount reserved for the reconstruction of the church. In the Commission, such a well-designed preliminary draft has not been seen, as the head of the commission has already mentioned. It is also not certain that the reserved 30 million will be allocated and, if it is, whether it is sufficient or not, because, referring to the words of the Latvian Ambassador to Germany, Mrs Skujiņa, following the negotiations with the German Foreign Minister at the beginning of this year, the Bundestag would be ready to participate in up to 50 percent of the funding - and regardless of which law we grant property. It is also unclear how this cultural monument of national importance from the foundation will be maintained after the restoration, when millions will be spent. I would like to remind you that there are only a few dozen members in the German congregation. Of course, the word “tower” was revealed in the mind. There you go. Questions are; answers are not convincing, and such a strong sense of insecurity. What would create a sense of security? Well, probably, the model proposed by the President - the state-city church - which has not reached the ears of hearing either... Either in this situation it is necessary to join the option, where the LELB and the city still find a common language. It would be a good and wise solution, and everyone would benefit – and first of all the Holy Peter Church itself. And I do not support the current legal model of belonging. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U21	Name to Member Ritvar Janson. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U22	Why do I support the decision to transfer property to the foundation? The will of the Saeima members has for many years shown that the church should belong to the Church. When deciding on ownership, account should be taken of the historical succession that the German Holy Peter congregation was the last owner of the church. In favour of the transfer of ownership to the foundation, the action plan it has drawn up, which was demonstrated by the Commission, and the perseverance in the fight to have the plan accepted in order to raise funds from the German State. The conviction of Riga City Council about the claim to the property came at the last moment, and this is not surprising, as the municipality of Riga has not acted properly as the owner of the property. The alarm about Peter’s church came from the memorial guards, not from the municipality, who thought that everything was fine. In Latvia, as in almost all European countries, the owner of a cultural monument, not the state, maintains a cultural monument. The State grants financial support to churches as cultural monuments according to the possibilities and on the basis of the law on the financing of the preservation of the Sacred Heritage Law. The average funding is €500,000 a year. It should be noted that the Riga Holy Peter Church is not the only unique sacral heritage monument in Latvia. If the State were to undertake the financing of the maintenance and renovation of the buildings of all churches of national importance cultural monuments, then the budget expenditure under this heading should be increased at least 50 to 100 times - to EUR 50 million per year, which is not realistic. This would be a new burden for taxpayers. By transferring Peter’s church to a foundation consisting of a German congregation, it remains hoped that, by the end of this year’s second reading, the new German Bundestag will also respect the funds of the previous parliamentary composition – EUR 33 million 88 000 – reserved for the Riga Holy Peter Church in the budget column “International Activities of Society Groups and German Diaspora Cultural Institutions in Germany and abroad”. I do not believe that if the foundation of the acquirer did not consist of a German church or if the municipality was the beneficiary, the Holy Peter Church of Riga could qualify for these funds. In view of Germany's difficult history, the diplomatic phrase "We are Open to All" is understandable, but I look again at the budget line of the Bundestag, where the "international activities of the German Diaspora cultural institutions" are clearly and lightly written, just as we support our Diaspora by the Diaspora law, this money in this section of the Bundestag budget is not intended for churches in Berlin or Munich, but is specifically for objects abroad. Longer can no longer be expected, weighed and measured, because the building, as we found in the Saeima Commission, is in a critical state: permeable cracks in the building base area, local damage to brick and binder structure, division of stone components, because there is no rainwater discharge system, breaking arches, dangerous fire protection in the tower and so on. We can no longer wait longer for pragmatic reasons if we want the German Parliament to invest money directly in the Holy Peter Church of Riga. I call for support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U23	The name to Member Eva Marty. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U24	Colleagues! For its reflection on this draft article of the law, the title of "Glass pearls in exchange for Aboriginal gold" is redundant because the draft law raises a number of questions. What is the present congregation of the so - called German Holy Peter, who preachs himself as an heir to the prewar German congregation? Second. What will happen to the current Latvian church, which for years has maintained the services of the church in Peter's Church? And the last one. What is the foundation of the Holy Peter Church of Riga? The documents show the following: Lutheran services in German were renewed in Riga as early as the Soviet era, when the Germans of Volga began to enter Latvia during the so-called Hruščov's recurrence, and since 1966 there has been the German Jesus Evangelical Lutheran Church in Jesus' Church in Riga. So the German congregation is there, but the story continues. Date of designation referred to On one day, two new congregations are registered in one address in Riga, on Elias Street, which is the address of the church of Jesus: the Church of St Peter in Germany and the Church of St James in Germany. Why immediately two new congregations? And why did they not join the existing German congregation of Jesus? The German congregation Riga-2 was founded in 2001 and was renamed the German Church of Saint Peter in 2017 and the German Church of LELB in 2018. The German congregation, which has only a name, is currently trying to give the church with the hands of individual members of the Saeima, but the former church of the Holy Peter of Riga, although a small, about 20 people, receives nothing. In 2019, the Latvian Journalism Centre indicated in the study that in its attempts to transfer the church building to the LELB German Holy Peter Church, there is a visible scheme to transfer financially profitable real estate to a quick and, in fact, private organization with unclear origin, management and equally unclear goals of the Riga Holy Peter Church. Before adopting an article on the church manager, I would remind you of the very similar digital gheit scheme - an enterprise is created on behalf of the State of Latvia, which does not start... collects... performance of tasks, but involves an intermediary, a foreigner and immediately receives a promise of an ambitious amount of more than USD 53 million. The contract shall be concluded by means of trust and by misleading the ministries and trustees of the sector concerned. Investigating this transaction reveals fraud, which also involves political and business representatives. A very dangerous similarity with the team of five founding members of the object and dream money currently being discussed, unfortunately supported by a number of politicians. Is this dream money worth so much to give its historical symbol to Riga? And I ask why this Saeima Commission has not held any meetings and official discussions with Germany? Second. There are no official documents, at least at the level of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There is no participation of the Ministry of Culture, potential German budgetary documents do not even mention Latvia. And can the commission present a certificate from the Register of Enterprises about the former economic activity of the persons involved in the foundation... for which there are virtually no doubt as far as persons with a reputation that is very questionable. What do mystical German favors mean? Let's remember Ilf's and Petrov's novel "Twelfing Chairs" - the classics of literature about unique cheats. They have left a great saying: “First money, then there will be chairs.” That is why I do not believe that Germany or any other country will give money from blue air to something that some non-legal person has asked for. And so I can say that this event looks like such a farm - let's save the country of Latvia, because, as Ritvars Jansons said, it is a cultural monument, so the country has to maintain it, it's such a property, that is, it's... It's all give, state, money! But what about the church?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U25	Time. Mrs. Mārtage...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U26	I ask you to unite the times.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U27	Yes, please, your time is combined. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U28	And what has still changed since February 24, 1922, when several Latvian Lutheran congregations, inspired by equality and freedom established in the country, founded the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church as a democratic, synodial episcopal organization, as an association of congregations that would only represent the churches and not manage them. Members of the churches did not give up their power or property to the Latvian Church, only the rights of the clergy were left to bishops. Today, Luther’s church has changed its rules. Does the Latvian Lutheran Church want to return to the 19th century intolerance policy and do not want to cooperate with either Riga or the state? Maybe about the return of the Holy Peter Church in Riga in your Lutherans. You guys, but - will they take part in maintaining it? However, if the church remains in Riga and Latvia, it will delight all Latvians. No doubt, I stress that Riga is the most stable partner, because it is able to provide a sustainable financing model, and blind reliance on the promise of external financing cannot be the basis of the decision on strengthening ownership, as also the Presidential Chancellery pointed out in the Commission. And finally a small personal post scriptum. Yesterday... thanks to a member, Mr Kirchenstein, for his extensive knowledge in the history of Latvian writing...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U29	Thank you, Mrs. Marty. Time. Thank you. The name of Member Linda Medne. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U30	Hello, colleagues! In the Commission I did not support, and can not support, the central proposal of this draft law, by which one of the most unique historical values of Latvia and Riga is returned to the Riga German Community established in 2001. If this German church, which was founded for the purpose of acquiring Riga’s Holy Peter’s Church, has probably been strong enough to convince certain German Bundestag members of the need to budget EUR 35 million for the restoration of Riga’s Holy Peter’s Church, it is not, and cannot be, the price at which we trade our cultural and historical values, and it is also a foundation where power under the Law on Society and Foundations and the Statute of this Foundation will be the chairman of its Board Mr Meisner. What will be the next object - the value of Latvia that we will place on the free market? Is it really that one person from the side of the country, without testing his true motivation, his business experience and reputation in Germany, is able to be a more respectful and important candidate to the historical interest of Riga than the capital of Latvia itself in Riga? It is a disrespect for itself, it is an international demonstration of smallness. Why did the Commission not conduct serious negotiations with the LELB and Riga City Council, which would be recorded, where possible scenarios of the cooperation model would be taken seriously? It is said that the commission has been looking for options to do with the Holy Peter Church of Riga for years. Then I have the question: what has been so difficult for years, forgive me, to embarrass this subject? Is it not the case that the legislators themselves have not been able to find the most advantageous option to market the church in return for political dividends? Is it not the case that the management of the LELB has become the victims of re-shaping of Members? Why does the Riga City Council have the capacity to offer a correct form of administration of the Holy Peter Church of Riga, sharing responsibilities and rights between the foundation and between the thought? Couldn't it really be possible to invite the Riga City Council to participate in the commission's working group, where lawyers would have been looking together and probably long ago found solutions, so that the largest part of society would be satisfied with the national decision, so that Archbishop Vanags and the Mayor of Riga Mārtiņš Staķis could force each other and say: "Yes, this is a model in which we can cooperate and in which the church will take care of the sacral life and Riga - about the cultural process." Is it really the plan of Riga City Council to create, for the third reading, a strong and strong model of cooperation between the Council and the LELB by establishing the foundation so unique and brilliant that many competent lawyers of the Saeima’s Education, Culture and Science Commission will be surprised to see it? We need to understand that society is waiting for a national decision from us, and we have the opportunity to give it right now. I would like to thank the Archbishop of the Latvian Lutheran Church Janis Vanags and the Deputy Mayor of Riga City Council Linda Ozola for their search for constructive cooperation during last week's meeting. That is why we also wanted the draft law to be postponed for a week. I wish the negotiations to continue and in the near future the Riga City Council and the LELB agree on the joint management of the Holy Peter Church in Riga. And will not allow the political market and the marginal understanding of the political process to destroy the good relations between the capital of Latvia and LELB. I call for this proposal not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U31	The floor in the debate for Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U32	Thank you. In this case, I would like to pay less attention to emotional things, historical research... from financial matters... I would, however, like to touch on legal matters. I said at the outset that it would be important for the Legal Commission to also deal with this draft law. But the first question that arises here is what is the new foundation that is meant to own this country's important property? It is a body governed by private law (as one of the speakers has already mentioned today) is it another? Because here, when it was talking... Let's say, when the law on the Dome Church was passed, and the other side was the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church, whose activities are governed by the relevant special law... In this case... What is the nature of this foundation - whether it is a derived public person or some other status, because it also leads to future relationships, responsibilities, rights, responsibilities and everything else. It seems to me that in this case it is important to discuss all these things, but what is offered is above all incomplete and semi-finished. It does not involve different models, because I think the President's recommendation to set up a three-party cooperation body, namely the Ministry of National Culture... Riga Municipality and as the first and most important Latvian Lutheran Church... It is worth considering in more detail and thinking that there would be, on the one hand, a state guarantee to maintain this property, on the other hand, a commitment from the church to ensure that religious functions are carried out here as well. Therefore, it seems to me that this proposal, which has been made by the Commission, is not acceptable. There are other options that need to be considered here, and I would also like to support what Mr Pimenova said, that it is high time to bring this draft law back to the committee responsible for the re-examination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U33	Name to Member Edgar Kucin. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U34	Good evening, colleagues! You can't go to church... an institution of a municipality, just as it cannot be the property of a church building in a municipality, because even by law the church is separated from the state. And, colleagues, all those who believe that the church is a church, and even all those who live with God in the heart, I call for the church to be given to those who believe in God. And, colleagues, I would like to remind you that the main aim of the draft law is to find the best solution for restoring and preserving the unique historical and cultural monument for future generations. If I had no doubt, then the bill walked through the Saeima corridors, not the first term. Six names, as Mrs. Ribena said. Colleagues, 24 years old! And no one - either the municipality or the state - needed a church. And it is only to be welcomed that there were people who were willing to take responsibility for the future of the church. I call on you to support the Commission's proposal 6 and to pass on the church to the foundation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U35	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U36	Good evening, colleagues! I would like to talk more about the legal specificities of this proposal that are relevant to the foundation in question. And in this case, I would like to draw attention precisely to the statutes of this foundation. In this debate, it was quite rightly stated that the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church is a serious organisation that could take care of such an object as well, but unfortunately this proposal does not provide for it, because when it comes to the foundation that this proposal is about and which, apparently knowing that such a proposal might arise in the commission, was established a few months before the commission decided accordingly... practically empty foundation, virtual. Well, if we turn to the statutes of this foundation, we see a very striking picture. And that's what I have to say: it's my rating as a person with some experience in the private sector and also in the preparation of various documents of the commercial register, as well as in the preparation of the articles of association. Well, you see, no one can doubt that the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church is a massive organization in Latvia, but here, for example, if we value the proportion of the board, then only one of five members of the board can be elected on the board of the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church, while in the German community it is intended to be able to elect four members of the board, so in fact, the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church is made a marginal organisation in the very context of this foundation, which I like as a Latvian... Well, I think it would be very difficult for me to agree to this. Similarly, if we are talking about the supervisory body of the board, which is the council in this foundation, then, as has already been called up in this debate before, there is also a similar special feature that, therefore, this massive Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church is intended for only two council members from eight, and six are intended for the German congregation. And there's still one... And then the question is, if someone likes to talk about the fact that the church must belong to the Church, where in normal conditions, if it were not the church, whose maintenance or repairs... We must talk about many tens of millions of euros, which would not be a cultural monument of Latvia, and which should objectively ensure that the state is obliged to invest in this cultural monument as well... Well then, in this case, the question is why it is so marginal that the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church has agreed to it. And there's one nuance here. So, in fact, we can say that the church will not belong to this church on the basis of this proposal. It will belong, first, to the foundation, second, to the church as one of the churches in Latvia (not to the church, but to the church)... there will only be maybe 20 percent determination over this object. Please combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U37	The times of your debate are united. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U38	Yeah, thank you. So... And even more interesting is the fact that after the information I have at my disposal... and I don't know if it's also dealt with in the Commission, but we also discussed it when we met Mr Vanaga in the Group... This congregation, which seems to have 80 percent in this foundation, has entered the Evangelical Lutheran Church. So actually works under the church roof. But the church will not belong to this Evangelical Lutheran Church as a legal organisation, but will largely belong to this separate church. And it's also in the context of the fact that the German Lutheran Church has also reacted to it, because, as we know, the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church is considered to be a relatively conservative organization. Well, there's a very weird scheme. First, so the congregation joins... The German congregation joins the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church this summer, as I understand. Next, despite this, creates a foundation, not just a fairy tale - in reality, the Evangelical Lutheran Church wants to be the owners... but form a foundation where the umbrella organization has 20 percent, but the congregation has 80 percent. Well, you have to admit that it is an interesting, mildly, interesting structure to structure this property. And, well-known, I have also heard this information about the need to co-finance the Latvian side in any case, perhaps not in the amount of 50 percent, but similar. What is in doubt is that, in any case, this foundation will have such funds without attracting taxpayers' money. I just don't understand this deal in this light... this meaning of structuring property rights in this way, unfortunately, I cannot support this proposal because I am a patriot of the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U39	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U40	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Dear colleagues, It is extremely interesting to watch this debate on the law of the Holy Peter of Riga. It is very interesting to compare with how many colleagues did not debate when it was... when the national budget for next year was debated over several days, when it was a question of how €12 billion of taxpayers' money would be spent, many felt that nothing was debated or interesting compared to this issue. But to all those colleagues who call on the Holy Peter Church of Riga to hand over to the municipality of Riga, saying that here, the Riga City Council will be able to find a way or find the means to invest in the reconstruction of the church, I would like to remind you of your decisions a year ago and very recently - a few months ago, when you decided to re-allocate this income from personal income tax in the amount of five per cent of the municipal budgets to the state budget, without any clear justification, of course, with the exception of the justifications that are money. This was about a redistribution of almost EUR 100 million. I'm not going to tell you exactly how much in Riga, but they are definitely at least the same 30 plus... millions of euros needed to restore the Holy Peter Church of Riga. So you, dear colleagues, practically all of those who have now spoken and talked so eagerly about transferring the church to the municipality, you are exactly and precisely the ones who took those 30 plus... millions of euro per year, where from one year it would be enough to invest in the restoration of the Holy Peter Church in Riga. And when very recently - when the proposals were put forward for next year's draft budget - you are exactly you, all those who... Well, well, with some... All those coalitions... Except... Members who speak on both this proposal and on other proposals - all of you voted against returning five per cent of personal income tax to municipalities, including Riga. Colleagues, let us ask the question: will the Riga City Council be able to renovate or invest, or manage the Holy Peter Church sufficiently adequately? Look at this. If you're in Riga, go out... on the streets - Riga City Council is not able to deal with even street cleaning, where it is also possible to talk about church administration. I therefore call, colleagues, on us to look realistically at the world, at our own decisions and to make realistic decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U41	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U42	It's short. Indeed, the smell of foreign money cuts their heads, but it is not a reason to make a quick decision. Nobody here talks about what can or cannot be done, needs or does not be handed over to the Church, it is about the need (and it is a sacred task of the legislator) to look for the best optimal, legally correct and correct solution. In addition, this solution is aimed not at the next day, but at the next decades, perhaps also at hundreds of years. I therefore call for this proposal to be rejected as unwise and unfounded and for another one to be sought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U43	Name to Member Long Schuplinsk. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U44	Good evening, colleagues! Everyone today has a desire to name their speech under a heading. I will also say that my speech will have the title of "three yes", one big question and how myths come up". Three ‘yes’. Yes, it is the law of the lift, but it is precisely because the fact that the holder of the reports of the State Audit Office has not yet been identified and it is not clear to what extent and where this funding has actually been placed. The other thing. Would I, too, assume my responsibility as former Minister to hand over certain functions to the private? Yes, Mr. Pimenov, because at this point... when the community, the Internet connection problem, no computer problem, no “Your Class” problem state cannot solve. And if we went in the usual style... Mr Dolgopolov just said very nicely... hastened issue... During six convocations... With the three models proposed by this Saeima, and to be honest, there is still a longer-term solution. And the third ‘yes’. Yes, for this particular proposal, that is, no matter what you like, the church is really part of the Church and it is separated from the state. Some stuff. So the foundation requirement was the model offered by the Saeima... first and second readings. Neither the congregation nor the LELB came with such an initiative, the Saeima chose this model, which was defended at first reading, and it was the request of the Saeima. The specific version of the Statutes. Archbishop Vanag explained at several meetings of the Committee on Education, Culture and Science that he was absolutely in agreement with this proportion and that he was not concerned there. Moreover, the law includes another council, which includes very professional people, both national and national, for the protection of cultural monuments. And most importantly, one of those reasons why the LELB doesn't mean more... There are two reasons for it. First of all, it is not a German but a German-white congregation. The German Government is always, among other things, taking care of those citizens, of their history, which has also existed in other territories, and not at this time in the territory of Germany. Secondly, the LELB is simply absolutely economic, realising that many churches that need to be maintained will not be as strong as this German community, which is a foundation with the LELB, which was required by the Saeima to direct the examination of these laws in general, because the German community really has claims and reasons, must also be given the argument to obtain this funding in Germany. And again, the huge question. Thank you, Mrs. Mārtuja, who described very precisely the figures that happened to the Holy Peter congregation at the time. I want us to be just as accurate... see how Peter's church entry appeared in the Riga City Council's Landbook in 2002. We cannot find this explanation, let us be grateful if the next speakers explain it, because what happened to the congregation is seen in clear notes. What happened with this record of the landbook is that nobody - neither lawyers, archivors, nor association of cultural monuments - can explain. And for rhetoric. So there is no word in this law that is gifted, placed on the market, released from Riga, Riga will lose its symbol. On the contrary. This law states that within three years after the expert expert examination, the restoration and restoration of the church is determined, and if it does not take place within three years, the State intervenes in this particular activity and in principle requires responsibility from the foundation. This means that these three years are linked to a very precise journey to the restoration of Peter's Church and indeed to the symbol of Riga not only proper, but, I must say, absolutely adequate and for the future... the fulfillment of the vision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U45	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U46	Dear colleagues, I absolutely agree with the words of Sergey Dolgopolova that the legislator should assess the best course of action, with a very careful weighing of all in favour and against. And, colleagues, what is the question here? The question is: Who will be a caring host to the Holy Peter Church in Riga? Will it be the Church or the Riga City Council? Who has the motivation, and who has the funds to invest in the restoration of the Holy Peter Church in Riga? Is it Riga City Council? Colleagues, if I saw another Riga thought, I might consider the idea that the Riga City Council is the caring host to the Holy Peter Church of Riga, but when I see that the Riga City Council has no means to repair even the streets and clean the streets from snow, I have no doubt that the Riga City Council will have no means, attention or care for the Holy Peter Church of Riga. Consequently, in such a case, that conclusion is quite simple, colleagues. It is clear that any investment is linked to ownership. Was any of you who ever rented an apartment - were you prepared to invest your money in an apartment that you don't own? It is absolutely clear here that these are related issues. Who is a caring host? That was the main question that we all need to give ourselves an answer... and must be put to the vote accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U47	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U48	Dear President, Good evening, honourable Members! I listened so carefully. Awesomely, both the wicked atheists and the old Communists have fallen into one hand, and they cannot really understand what they are fighting for. Listening to this debate, it could be understood that the church is being taken to Germany or that the Evangelical Lutheran Church remains outside at all. It's still there. But the formation is common. It's not that the church is returned somewhere to Germany. Evangelical representatives of the Lutheran Church will be on this council, and there will also be representatives of Riga City Council. So there's no... Accordingly, there is no doubt about this and there is no problem. Now sit down in detail, who will actually have it, and who will put more money there... That's right to say that, apparently, the elevator could do something... bring a lot and that the fight is about the elevator, not about the church. I will remind you once again of what I said yesterday: the elevator is built in 1974, it is, in fact, no longer valid; it needs to be made again. But then the question is: if 26 years have passed during the PPP and 31 years have already passed during the period of independence (total 57 years), and the elevator could bring a million a year, it is true that the rubles, which could have done just as much about the euro, where are these 57 million? If they have been wasted and eviscerated, why is there such a naive idea that there will be a new elevator, some new million and that they will be used in the restoration or maintenance of this church, or somewhere else? We're not gonna live in illusions! I heard here because of the fear that this church is due to the Latvian Lutheran... and so on. Here it should be recalled once again that this is a cultural monument of Northern Europe, this church symbolises the victory of the reform in the Northern European space, then there was no Latvia. This church represents the work of representatives of Western European culture. There were both German architects, Latvian builders and Gotland rocks. And yet... by the way, interesting thing - why is this church so beautiful? Because it has a baroque tower that has been restored, but the architect who made it was Rupert Bindenšu, born in 1645 in Strasbourg, an architect who came to Riga. He was the one who rebuilt the old tower from 1688 to 1690. He introduced these baroque forms. And he didn't build just this church, he also rebuilt... He built Jesus ’ Evangelical Lutheran Church, which was of wood. He designed Dannenstern's house in Riga, he designed Reitern's house, according to his drawing, a church in Limbaži was built, as well as a church in Matīši. Why am I saying that? Because the church returns to the environment that fits it. You see - architects from all over Europe, builders, Latvians, at that time also bays, Lutheran and German churches, two churches there were there, and at the end of the reformation, which crowned them all. And now we are telling you that there will be only a Riga City Council, that it is something unique and that it cannot return to any other cultural space. It simply returns to its natural environment as it was. Therefore, I call on you to support its return, not to mention that the Evangelical Lutheran Latvian Church is disappearing somewhere. As I said, it remains in this administration, and there are also strong guarantees. There were also doubts here: there will be no big money, what will then be? The law states precisely: then it will come back under the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, and then it will be able to see what to do next. So there's no problem. But I think this administration is the most optimal. In the end, what could I wish to my Member, Marty. If she was a poet, Martuzeva, I think we shouldn't listen to that stupid thing. However, I invite you to give back to this new foundation and not to worry that the church is returning to the cultural space of Western Europe, it will not suffer from Latvianism, Latvian Lutherans, nor Latvia's state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U49	Dear colleagues, In the debate, we try not to touch each other personally. We are continuing the debate. The name to the Member Atm Lejny. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U50	Very respectful head of the Saeima sitting! Colleagues! I would be asked not to restore the crusade with the Germans, but to look realistically at today's situation and remember that the land reform in Latvia in the 20th century after acquiring independence solved all problems with German manorry. Those who fought against Latvia's independence lost manors with the whole land free of charge; those on our side, on the Latvian side, could keep manor centres. The other thing I want to say was that there were also Belarusians fighting on our side in the war of independence... sometimes in very critical moments... When our army in Riga, two jewelry, passed over to the red side. Just like that. And now for exile. I want to remind those who have such an emotional need, such anti-collection, could almost say... I don't want to insult anyone, of course... Augusts Lēbers, the senator of Latvia, and his son Dietrih Lēbers, the Baltics of Latvia, were the main pillars of our exile. Ditrih Leber was an expert in international law, his name being weighty. That is what our President can confirm, that is what our former President, Vaira Vike-Freiberga, can say. He also continued to support us when we regained our independence. Books have been published about him and his contribution to international knowledge, law, restoration of independence of Latvia. By the way, he also made sure that the house of Mencendorf was restored. And that's a small note. But there are very many German students in Riga. Have you noticed that young people speak German on the streets? Hundreds. They are already participating in this German congregation. And I do not need to emphasise that Germany is and will always be our biggest strategic partner in Europe. I would like to say one more thing that I almost forgot. Organs... There is one former NATO German general who has invested enormous time and resources to rebuild the organ in Peter's Church. None of us can do that. This has already been discussed. But these are experts in Germany, and they are already all, as they say, consciously. Yeah. Therefore, we will be modern Latvians! Let us be modern Latvians! I call you not to be afraid! Don't be afraid. Don't be afraid... and give the church back to the Church. Don't worry that we Latvians will lose some influence or something. Let's get the church back! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U51	Name to Member Aigar Bikšem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U52	Thank you. I would like to say that I very much respect German culture and the German people. What we are talking about and what I am talking about is not at all directed against the German people or against the people who form this foundation, which I think... I've also met the Foundation Manager, I think they're very nice people who work with the purest senses... I guess so. But it's about another thing, it's like it's still... how I can say once again - the Holy Peter Church of Riga is a huge brand, a huge visual symbol of Latvian culture. And if it were, for example... How do you... compare... Ilon Mask, whom I very much respect... If he wanted to take over St. Peter's church, I would say no... Riga City Council in cooperation with Ilona Mask. And not because I don't like this man, I think he's very great, wise and probably a good person, but because I think that the largest building in Riga, the largest tower, a historical object, is very important from a semantic point of view. That is why these considerations lead me. And that's why I remind - and I also reminded you earlier in the discussion - of these aspects, which will certainly be at some point... Maybe you're having a discussion. So thank you very much. Thank you to the German community for their participation and active interest in support, for their efforts to arrange this building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U53	Name to Member Arvil Asheraden. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U54	Thank you. On my own behalf and on behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that the Commission has worked very hard on this issue, has assessed it very carefully, and therefore all these three scenarios were defined - both the President, the Riga City Council and, let us say, the German Holy Peter Church and Lutheran... The LELB scenario. Looking realistically... As regards the President of Latvia scenario, neither the state nor the municipality of Riga showed any interest in the creation of such a scenario, and unfortunately it was postponed aside. There are two scenarios left, actually three. There was a choice between the LELB and the Holy Peter Church of Germany, and the Riga City Council. Then the LELB and St. Peter's congregation joined forces when the Riga St. Peter's Church joined the LELB and formed a united... becoming members of the LELB and establishing this foundation. Also the Riga City Council. When assessing both of these organizations... If we look at the issue of the foundation of the Holy Peter Church in Riga, then in the previous Saeima, it was the Education, Culture and Science Commission that drew attention to this congregation of the Holy Peter in Riga and the chairman of the committee, then the leader, Mrs. Viņķele, who asked them to find a solution to the resources that this congregation had done when turning to the German Bundestag. We had no doubt at any time that the German Bundestag had made such a decision - to support it. We were convinced of this, both by meeting with a group of Members, by talking to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and by convincing different officials and different state institutions - this is the allocation, and therefore is expected to be made to the decision of the state of Latvia. And in addition to what would apply here to the German congregation, there was also a discussion... the question as to whether the Holy Peter congregation can serve in the church. Mr Dolgopolova, I can tell you clearly and clearly that they are not allowed to serve in the church, but despite many years when the church was not able to get into this church, the churches have collected money for the restoration of the church and have created a really wonderful altar for the church, which is very valuable, this is a gift to the church, and it delights all the Rigans who have been there. Just as there has been a candy, the money is being collected and the organ project is being carried out. Believe me, this is a huge and unique organ project worth many millions, and these are the individuals who donate to it. I would like to say that its special pain and the desire to do so and to settle it are something that also motivated me and the members of the Commission to take a supportive decision for this LELB and this common... for the foundation of the German congregation. And the last thing I want to say, LELB... Of course, I also call for the evangelical Lutheran aspect of the LELB... Please, please, respect the tradition - until 1940 it was an Evangelical Lutheran Church, for more than 500 years, and I fear that no one else, including the municipality of Riga, has really had anything to do with it. If we were talking about Riga City Council, then this was something that was very important. Of course, Riga has maintained and cared for this church. And then we try to understand what happens to the administration of this church. It was a great surprise when we received an assessment from the State Cultural Monuments Administration that the church was in a dramatic state and that reconstruction works, or rescue works, had to be started urgently. In fact, everything is in a state of emergency - everything: a tower, a elevator, a roof, blankets, columns, foundations and so on. And it was a huge surprise that these funds... Yes, we asked the State Audit Office to carry out an examination and analysis of this. And it was a huge surprise that these funds, well, at least in recent years... it is difficult to understand where they remain – they have been credited to various accounts, including various other monuments, but at least one million euros have gone to the needs of Riga municipality and spent on quite unclear things that have nothing to do with Peter's church or other cultural monuments belonging to Riga. It shows that...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U55	Mr Asheraden, I propose bringing your time together.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U56	Yes, please! It's the last one.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U57	Your times are united. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U58	Yeah, well, here's this finding. And the last one. Of course, we were looking forward to changing... the new power of Riga... telling you that the new municipality of Riga will return the money that has disappeared. This has not been the case at all, contrary to the fact (we saw that there was an urgent need to rescue fire-fighting systems in order to preserve their monument) - nor was the decision to allocate 40 thousand people, although 300 thousand employees were, of course, granted salaries. And the last one. I had just gone to church, and there, to say so, tried to understand... before making a decision to watch, and at the moment when a great jeep came at the entrance and told me, “Know what, go away, this is my parking place!” , I realized that the city of Riga has such a very practical, mercantile aspect - this is one house that carries money, and everything else is quite of interest to us. So that I call for the 'yes' vote this time on this carefully drafted Commission proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U59	The name of Member Evita Hall-Gross. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U60	Thank you. I think about what we can learn. I will see about how this vote ends, and I just want to draw conclusions from it, because all that we have heard today is the result that we are in fact unable to cooperate and take responsibility for the cultural and historical heritage, for our land, for our people and for the children entrusted to us, because here we are each of us... We're all politicians... Why didn't LELB take responsibility for their church, why? Because there's just no people there. There are no people there who can donate money and maintain the church. There are already more churches than congregations. And that is the result of some policy. This policy has not landed from space; it has historically been created by us. And now what I hear in this term is what? Churches - Germans, children - Americans, business - Lithuanians, land - have more money, most often they are not Latvians. Then the question is, What is ours? And then... It's good to have this foundation. I hope that this will not be such an Ostap Bender scenario after all. Let the host Germans, so that we may go there to pray, and let him encourage us to finally take responsibility for their land, because what I hear is one constant “We cannot, everything is destroyed, everything is bad. Please do something!” I think we need to learn to work together - Riga Dome and LELB, with the Riga Dome, all together to make this land flourish, not to give and delegate all the responsibilities that lie with us, our political leaders, to others. I hope that day will come and we will not give up something because it is ours! - task so we can live here for another time. And then, perhaps, God would bless us too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U61	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U62	Yes, I heard the words “the symbol of Latvia” here, and then I began to think... and extremely interesting - I remembered one thing that I think Members should know. Is the Constitution a symbol of Latvia? No one will doubt this, everyone will say yes. Do you know, honourable colleagues, that the most important proposal to the Latvian Constitution was written by the German-speaking lawyer Pauls Šimanis? More than a hundred! Most of this Constitution we use has been written by him. Thank you to Mr Leiens: he has mentioned the struggles for Freedom a little so, but let us be precise. In his book “The War of Independence of Latvia” (General Penic), a penicipant states precisely that when the anti-attack against the army and Communists of Stučka started on March 6, 1919, what were those 7800 who believed in Latvia and are they a symbol of Latvia, these 7800 men? Then I will name them: the Germans - 1800, the German troops who had come to help, the Iron Division and the 3rd Corps - 5200 and 600 Latvians, even though (not heard.) ... Why so few Latvians? Where were they? Because 50 thousand were in the Soviet Latvian army. Of these 50 thousand in Kurzeme there were 12 thousand - three Latvian strife divisions. And what were they fighting for? What symbol? They fought for a sickle and a hammer. I should remember it and I should remember it. Symbols should be careful. Bindenšu is a symbol, just like Shimani is a symbol, a whole line of other young Latvians, which are symbols. They are people of different nationalities, just as the armies are (not heard.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U63	I closed the debate. Mr Asheraden, on behalf of the Commission, please strengthen... conclusion.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U64	The Commission has, by a large majority, supported 6. - a proposal from the Commission on Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U65	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - The proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please, let's vote! For - 47, for - 14, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U66	Thank you. We shall continue to see the draft law. 7. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Defines the obligations of the foundation. And they are as follows: to ensure the preservation, restoration, in particular restoration of immovable property as a cultural monument of public interest, in accordance with the requirements set by the State, and to ensure its public access and use in accordance with the provisions of Article 6 of this Law. In the future, a number of obligations are also laid down requiring the foundation to develop the concept of the conservation, restoration and use of immovable property. It must be coordinated with the Ministry of Culture. And obliges the foundation to submit to the Ministry of Culture once a year a report on the maintenance, restoration and use of immovable property. That would be all. The Commission has supported the proposal. I call on you to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U67	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Linda Medne. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U68	Good afternoon, colleagues! I cannot support this proposal because, first of all, this proposal does not mention Riga as a capital in any capacity. To support this proposal in this wording would be, in my opinion, a clear disrespect for the capital. The proposal should include common forms of cooperation between LELB and Riga, as pointed out by President Egils Levits in his letter to the Commission. In a letter from the Saeima dated 6 April 2021, Mr Levite indicated (please quote): “I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Supreme Council is deciding on the return of property to religious organisations (see The Law of 12 May 1992 on the Return of Property to Religious Organisations specifically stated that this Law does not apply to the Riga Dome Church and the Holy Peter Church of Riga (see the box below). Para 3 of the decision of the Supreme Council of 12 May 1992 on the procedure for entry into force of the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Return of Property to Religious Organisations). Given that both churches are cultural monuments of special importance to the state, the Supreme Council provided that the legislator should decide on these churches by a separate law. The main purpose of such a separate law is not and cannot be simple renewal of property rights, since in that case a separate law would not be necessary and could be done in accordance with the general rules laid down in the Law on the Return of Property to Religious Organisations. The necessity of a separate law means that the legislator should carefully assess the possibilities for the preservation, restoration and maintenance of cultural monuments of special importance to the State, their financing, as well as the functions to be ensured by the churches concerned in the common interest of society as a whole.” I would also like to point out that the 7th proposal... The second part provides that the foundation carries out all necessary research works, develops the concept of conservation, restoration, use of real estate, documentation of reconstruction projects, ensures the performance of restoration works. And the concept should also include a real estate use plan. Then I have a question if we can imagine that we would transfer any other object... State or any financial institution... without a concept, without a financial plan, without an alternative plan, what will happen if no funding from Germany is received? We did not receive an answer to that question within the Commission. I would like to say that there is no plan A in fact, and there is no plan B in fact, so I do not understand why this concept and this plan still do not exist, if this issue has been addressed for years. And the question is, who will cover maintenance costs? And what will be the co-financing? These questions, too, were not answered by the Commission. I therefore call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U69	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U70	This proposal, by its very nature, is in my view... it can't really be voted on because it's clear - if there's a foundation, then some rights, some responsibilities... In this case, there should probably be more responsibilities. It's as if it's logical. But it's just reading... Yes, and no one can vote against the fact that the foundation should have responsibilities, it's completely logical... but, reading this Commission article 5, for example... I may not be reading to the end, but for example, it is intended that the foundation should develop the concept of the preservation, restoration and use of this property and that it should be reconciled (be surprised - nothing to do with the municipality where the property is located) with the Ministry of Culture, which today, by the way, is actively trying to jump... Get away from responsibility for this cultural monument of national importance... and the fact that it must be 15 years... the plan must be renewed every three years, but at the earliest time the first development of this concept is necessary, e.g. this is not reflected in the third paragraph of this Article. Of course, it is not reflected in the fact that at least to some extent the municipality of Riga should be involved in the preparation of the plan. Let us be realistic, as so far, as real estate management in the city of Riga has taken place, of course, also at the renovation of churches and at the financing of various events, and I can also say this as a former member of the Riga City Council, that Riga City Council has always participated or otherwise and has provided its financial support. All of the activities that may have to be carried out by the church or foundation as a legal entity in the city, of course, depend directly on the municipality of Riga. Even the harmonisation of construction projects. The reconstruction will definitely require a construction project, and it will definitely have to be coordinated with the institutions of Riga municipality. But there is no word in this law... this article does not provide with any word that Riga Municipality answers... take responsibility for this object and would therefore be interested in doing so as soon as possible. It's not here. Perhaps Mr Asheraden can apply in the debate and point me to a point... first, how quickly it is necessary to develop this concept for the first time, second, why the municipality of Riga is not mentioned, on which the institutions will depend directly on any work to be carried out. And then we can think further. And one more thing. In the debate, it was also said earlier that so the Riga City Council has not been active enough, and of course this issue, I understand, has been seen for years - since... I don't know, 8. The Saeima... As they say, different sources report different... and, of course, in the previous Saeima. Here, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to remind me that for some reason the previous Riga City Council, where... well, it is not an active Riga City Council... and where the State Audit Office is everything... researched what all kinds of bad things happened there... It was dismissed because it was not economic. There was a waste of money in all possible “fronts” - in capital companies or through the budget - so it was released. And now you say - yes, but Riga City Council didn't come and offer anything, didn't want to get involved, there wasn't enough money... I am sorry, we voted for the dismissal of the Council, there were extraordinary elections only in the autumn of 2020, and that was because its money really - also objectively - disappeared in the city of Riga. It's gone! And, of course, before that, there was an interim administration, which, of course, provided only basic functions so that the city actually had to sign documents at the time when the Council did not meet, so the Council Members with the appropriate powers. Please combine the times.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U71	Your times are united. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U72	Thank you. So I can't blame the temporary administration for... Well, objectively there were three people who signed the documents. Of course, there are nuances, and all the works can be done better... and so on. I agree with all this. I can't blame this Riga City Council, this term, which has been elected in an extraordinary election, because it only started working at the end of last year... I would remind you that the deadline for submitting proposals for this draft law expired earlier than this... at least how I looked at the record keeping system... I hope that I have not reviewed this, and Mr Asheraden can also comment. And logically, now... What does the Riga City Council do? I am trying to draw attention to the fact that the involvement of this public administration will in any case be necessary. And that's because this council is responsible, it's trying to behave responsibly, not as the Ministry of Culture, which has done nothing but now everything will have to be reconciled. This one is now jumping... try to get on a driving train, catch a train that already goes, because these are people who care about culture, care about good management of Riga's property and things like this. This is a special feature of this Soviet term. That wasn't the case before. And indeed - blame what you released, their previous council, but do not blame this council, which is fighting for the preservation of Latvia's national cultural and historical treasures. I call this... it shall not be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U73	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U74	Thank you. I believe it is very positive that this section of the draft law also appears - the new owner's responsibilities. One point. Two points. Indeed, it is a controversial question - whether there is an accurate and complete description of all that is due to be done, or whether it is possible to supplement, modify and so on. This is the subject of discussions and can be further improved for the third reading. There is, however, one issue that really concerns me very much: there is little talk here about the need to have a public account of the use of money that will be certain, and that money will be donating money or investment money from the state or municipality. This is one of the most important moments, because maintaining this property without this type of help and support - it is, by the way, impossible, as well as the experience and practice of the Dome church. Thus, it is one of the most important moments, as important as aligning restoration plans with all institutions, ministries, restaurants and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U75	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr Asheraden... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U76	Yeah, thank you. As regards some of the comments made. I would like to say that the foundation has such an obligation - to report - with the fourth part of this proposal, which requires that every year the government (in the name of the Ministry of Culture) should submit both for... All of these... preservation, restoration and use... as well as an overview of revenue and expenditure made during the previous year. Since the State is entitled to a full account of any revenue arising from the development and operation of this real estate. The Commission has supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U77	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - The proposal submitted by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please, let's vote! For - 58, for - no, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U78	Dear colleagues, 8. - the proposal of Members Muižniece and Ozola, which states that religious activity in the Riga Holy Peter Church is based on ecumenism. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U79	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Linda Medne. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U80	Colleagues! The Commission has argued that ecumenum has not been explained in the laws and regulations of the Republic of Latvia. I would like to point out that this argument does not stand criticism. Ecumenum is also mentioned in the international agreement - the agreement between the Republic of Latvia and the Holy See. At the same time... The proposal contains the terms "religiousness" and "political maturity"; it does not contain any precise definition and, from a legal point of view, it is not correct to include such terms in this law. In our view, the state must be neutral and equal to all Christian denominations operating according to the laws of the Republic of Latvia, without prioritising anyone; this is also the basis for this proposal. Although this proposal was not supported by the Commission, I ask you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U81	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr Asheraden... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U82	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U83	Members have not asked for a vote, but because of the opinion - please... Yes, the vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - To the Ozola and Muižniece Members' proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 16, for - 45, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U84	Dear colleagues, 9. - Member Pimenova's proposal. It has been partly supported and included 11. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U85	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U86	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal from Member Lībiņa-Egnere. It has been partly supported and included 11. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U87	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U88	11. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. In my opinion, this is the central proposal in this case. It lays down the obligation to use the Holy Peter Church of Riga. So, the very foundation! - this proposal states that the Holy Peter Church of Riga is a church used to carry out religious activities. And then, so to say, defined secondary functions... in addition. The first is as a place of exploration, conservation and promotion of the cultural heritage of the Germans. The second is the location of concerts and exhibitions of art, history (including urban development and architecture), as well as other cultural events. The third is where educational events take place. Fourth - as a tourist object (including church view tower). These are the functions of this cultural and historical monument, which will therefore have to be observed by the future owner, to be guaranteed that they are going on there, and therefore to be accountable to the State every year for whether it is being done.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U89	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - The proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please, let's vote! For - 70, for - no, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U90	Thank you... Thank you. 12. - Member Pimenov's proposal that the Riga Holy Peter Church can be used by traditional Christian religions and their organizations, promoting ecumenical cooperation and integration of Christian faith into society. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U91	Members have not applied for a debate, but they have been asked to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - Member Pimenova's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 4, for - 49, for - 11. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U92	13. - the proposal of Member Muižniece and Member Ozola, which provides that the State of Latvia and the municipality of Riga would be granted the right to use the Holy See Church of Riga as a place of celebrations and events devoted to events of importance to the State of Latvia and the city of Riga free of charge. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U93	Let's start a debate. The name to Member Eva Marty. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U94	Colleagues! Peter’s church has served, of course, religious purposes in the history of its existence, with the exception of the Soviets; the services could not be done in the Nazi era, because the church was destroyed, but Peter’s Lutheran Church continued to exist both during World War II and until the 1960s, bringing together the Church of England. The first documentary evidence of Peter’s church as a church building is, as I said, since 1209. And it was a particularly important place, of course, for the beginning of the reform in Riga. It is symbolicly reminded of the square before the church, which was named after the Reformation in 2017. Peter’s church in 1521, influenced by the idea of reform, preached Andreas Knopken, and one year later he and the representatives of the Riga Route took part in the debate, defending the ideas of reformation. There's his tombstone in the church of Peter. Peter’s church has formally been a Lutheran church since 1524. So for 300 years Catholics, then Lutherans... As was inevitable at that time, political and religious aspects were mixed up. After taking Riga in 1621, King Gustav Adolf of Sweden took part in the appreciation service at St. Peter’s Church. Today, various religious organizations are interested in Peter’s church as a place for religious events. At the end of 2016, it was one of those places in Riga where the Ecumenical Thesis movement event took place - the European Youth Meeting. In 2017, the Roman Catholic Church said that it sees the future of the church as a common place of prayer not only with the Lutherans, but all and in particular - and in particular! - major measures at national level. The Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church has also held services in the church of Peter. Today, both secular and religious functions coexist well in Peter’s church. It continues to exist as a place of worship, concerts and exhibitions. It would be a place to meet freely at the biggest national festival, an independent place where ecumenical church services would take place, where no other country's senior officials should be present. It should be a city and state church. Of course, it will not be easy for the legislator to decide, because these functions can potentially be performed by both a secular owner - a state or a municipality - and, in today's circumstances, by a very large issue-marking religious organisation, which is as infinitely poor as the LELB, which sells all of its properties to the right and to the left. Taking into account the interest of several applicants, it is essential that this church continues to exist and is even more open as a cultural space and an important event for the state... a free meeting place, as it was at the very beginning when the church was built as a merchant church and at the same time as the house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U95	Name to Member Janis Butan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U96	I am reading this proposal and I cannot understand why it has not been supported by the Commission, because in fact, as we can see, it is a purely logical proposal that requires the state of Latvia and Riga City Municipality to use the church for important events – free of charge. I don't know what has been the situation so far, but the fact is that this church, which is important for both Latvia and the city of Riga... It would be only normal if, at important moments, on important dates such as, for example, November 18 or Christmas, or Riga City Festival, or May 4, the church was reserved for the celebration and celebration of national and city-level festivals - whether it was a service or a concert or some other event. I would really like it to be able to keep up and to use these spaces for these activities. As far as I know, various concerts and cultural events could take place in the church so far. As a result, it is not very clear to me, as an unscrupulous person who has not participated in the commission, why this proposal is not supported and what the arguments are, and whether this will not prevent me from taking advantage of all these opportunities that I am talking about. Please, if possible, one of the commission... someone who took part, voted and did not support the proposal... Please tell us about the arguments. Thank you, it's all for me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U97	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U98	Yeah... Well, there must probably be a focus... for those who may not have a legislative proposal table for second reading... Well, how did this proposal, the 13th, come from the Members? This, of course, emerged as a reaction to the first reading... Self-directed by the commission... the text voted on at first reading by the draft law... for the fourth part of the relevant section, which stipulated that only Riga City Municipality has the right to use this church free of charge for important events, including events of holiday periods dedicated to the city. We know that in Latvia traditionally... that events at national level are traditionally marked with worship. Responding to this first reading... It is quite logical that the ladies of Members noticed that there is no talk at all about the state of Latvia in this part of this article, it is only about events important to the municipality of Riga. But, of course, for the state of Latvia... and especially taking into account the importance of the object... as a national culture monument... Of course, it would be only logical for the state of Latvia - meaning any institutions that would be responsible for organising any events of national importance or celebration or other events that would require worship or, as it has been written here, holidays - to have the opportunity to hold them. And, of course, the Members made their first reading... for the fourth part of the commission itself... put on basically two places this... The state of Latvia, although the state of Latvia - the relevant public administrations - would have such an opportunity. In response to this, the Commission has therefore not only failed to take into account the interests of the Latvian State, which has been indicated in this proposal, 13, but has created another proposal - 14 and has deleted this Article 4... the fourth paragraph of Article 4 of the draft law, which is a little confusing to me, because the idea, for example, of governance... that it could be a foundation or... For example, as was the wording of the first reading... that ownership of the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church (LELB), which... by the way, so the first reading version and... which seems even more logical than this idea of foundation. So this version of the 13th proposal responded, but as a result, something happened during the second reading, apparently appearing in the foundation of this German congregation or what... where apparently there have been loud protests or how... And so it's not just... So, Riga... Therefore, the interests of the Latvian state are not taken into account, but also, of course, the interests of Riga City Municipality, which was already... very first reading... it has been deleted altogether in the next proposal. Well, that only raises questions to me. However, I call for support for proposal 13 and do not support proposal 14. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U99	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U100	Thank you. This proposal is really good enough - and not only good enough, but also well thought out. It seems to me that nothing has been lost: despite the rejection by the Commission, it can still be incorporated into the proposals for the third reading because there is a place here and there is a need to anticipate it... Maybe salt in a different way... in the Annex, point (a) is replaced by the following: I call for this proposal to be supported this time and also for the third reading to be considered... the most optimal version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U101	Name to Member Janis Butan for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U102	I would just like to add that I understand the church as a public space that everyone has the opportunity to visit, see the values of the church or attend an event there. And the entrance usually... Well, as far as I've had to be in church, the entrance is for donations, and if there's nothing to donate, no one will also prevent us from visiting in the same way and you can do so. On the other hand, if this proposal is not supported and there is a further proposal to delete that it is possible to use the possibility to organise events of importance free of charge... to use these premises free of charge, so I have a question: is the church then planned to be used for commercial purposes or not? Because if we transfer the church to become a business object and no longer available to a large part of society... I do not understand how such a draft law can be supported! Now, such an important object, an object of Latvian importance, and now we will turn it into a commercial object, where the entrance to most of the society will be closed because they will not be able to pay? Is that it? I understand that. Maybe I'm wrong, I don't know, but for now, if no one can explain how it's meant there, I personally look like this from the side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U103	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U104	Good evening, colleagues... Good evening, colleagues! I really regret that this is the usual practice in the Saeima - that those Members of the relevant political groups who work on the committees have not explained to their colleagues the progress of all the discussions that were around this very complex draft law and the solutions - why the solutions that the committee offers are precisely that we now need to talk again, at the Saeima sitting, about all these details that have already been discussed at the committee sitting. When it comes to this particular proposal, which perhaps really looks strange to many, the context is already that there are obvious things in society... and, if the managers of the Holy Peter Church are asked or will be offered to organize an event of national importance or importance to Riga, then... Representatives of this foundation confirmed to us at the meeting of the commission that, of course, they would feel honored for every such offer and that it would be an honor to the church - to receive such... And in this context, we realized that there are things that need to be written in the law, and there are things that are self-evident, and that there is no need to try at any cost as printing the leg door, thinking its worst thoughts, those worst options, the worst scenarios. This was one of the obvious things that led us to decide, at the commission meeting in general, that such a point, which was previously incorporated, should simply be taken out of the bill, meaning that in a civilised society, in a democratic society, there are things that happen in themselves. Therefore, there is no such point supported by the commission here, so the next point is 14. - Commission proposal. I call on you to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U105	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U106	I fully agree that there are things that should not be written in the law, but here I should also call on Mr Vucanas to explain why, for example, this case or, for example, this proposal that the Latvian state should also have certain rights is so irrelevant... or the fact that Riga City Municipality would have certain rights is so irrelevant that it should be completely removed from the draft law, but for example, a relatively free interpretation of... with such references or references, or memories of the history of religious matters, have found a whole article in this bill that we discussed yesterday, in my opinion. Well, then I would call for some consistency. If this draft law does not speak for the same reason... on certain self-evident things that the Parliament may not need to decide on, then keep this consistency in the whole law, not only when it comes to the city municipality of Riga or the state of Latvia... then delete it, or let us say not, as this proposal has not been supported, for example. That would be my wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U107	Name to Member Arvil Asheraden. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U108	Thank you for this discussion. It was indeed a difficult debate for the Commission. And a few things I want to say right now. We, too, yesterday... as it said - about accessibility. Currently, the entrance to the Riga Holy Peter Church costs nine euros. Nine euros! It's a ticket that needs to be bought so that you can get to this church. That's the first thing. In turn, in order to solve this problem of accessibility in relation to the Riga Holy Peter Church, the legislator has in particular stressed in paragraph 5 - the real... That is, the owner of the cultural monument must ensure its public access and use in accordance with Article 6 of this Law. We have already talked about these functions and this has been voted on. And more. This unavailability is therefore the basis... That's what we're going to talk about, too... on the basis of that... If the new owner does not provide access, the State shall have a right of return in respect of this church. So that's the foundation that's placed inside. So here we do not see any possibility that the new owner could do so or let anyone let go of it. The second thing. I would like to talk about what Mr Wuzan said about whether everything really needs to be written in the law. We talked to LELB here... and LELB practice in Dome Church and other churches. Never has the State and any municipality been prevented from conducting their services. Now let's try to trust! Try to trust and do not legally impose an obligation to organize... or to say in particular that in that case it should be done free of charge. So I would like to say that this is a free agreement between the Church and the state, and a local government rather than a legislator. We considered this to be more meaningful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U109	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U110	The terminology could have been agreed. Accessibility and the organisation of events are different things. Here the substance of the proposal is a salty one. And here... if it were not about the foundation, but it was about the fact that it belongs to the Church, the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Latvia, then there would be no question, but here is a question - the relationship with the foundation, which, I say again, is very... such a non-expressing legal entity. I therefore call on us to support this proposal today and to work on its main point of view for the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U111	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U112	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Dear colleagues, I am interested in listening to this discussion and the questions that have been asked, and although I have not participated in the work of the committee responsible, because I am not a member of the committee responsible, I can try to explain to some colleagues what is likely to happen here - especially to those with extensive experience working in the private sector. Colleagues, imagine that you are an investor who comes to you from a country or city, or as representatives, and says: “Here is a building that is not in good condition; this building needs repairs, renovations, and we can not afford it. This repair could cost more than EUR 30 million. Would you not be prepared to invest in the renovation of this building?” So what's your answer? Well, of course, you're not ready to invest your money in building renovation if you don't... If this building... if you do not have ownership of this building. Well then probably you say, "OK, I'm ready to invest this money, but then my demand is that I have... that the ownership of this building is transferred to me.” Logical, isn't it? This is usually the case. Usually... I have not heard of an investor who would invest in the renovation of a building that he does not own. And then imagine that you, as an investor, agree to invest this money. And then these people who offered it to you say, “You know, in that contract, in the sales contract, we want to record such a point that we... in general, we want to come to that building at all when we want to, and use it as we want, or on the dates we think it matters, and so on." Colleagues, this, of course, is very... such a simplified example. But it is interesting to see that, on the one hand, the same people, our fellow Members, ask questions as to whether it will actually be the money of the German Bundestag, it is really available, and on the other hand, it proposes to incorporate into the law such points as the Bundestag could also consider. And then it would be quite interesting that the law would be passed, but it would be with such points and conditions as this proposal, for example, that the German Bundestag would say: you know, with such burdens, we are not really prepared to invest these more than 30 million in the renovation of the church. I hope, colleagues, that this example is a salient explanation of what is happening. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U113	Debate... The name of Member Evia Hallie-Gross. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U114	Yeah, I'm sorry, I'm pretty... I don't think that the German Bundestag considers it a burden or a risk that there will be people in the church because... Well, we understand that the only reason why the church was created is that there should be people in the church. I mean, not just church - church, but church - people. And, Mr. Wuzan said, I calmed down a little... after the vote on ecumenism, because I understand that this paragraph is not included for exactly the same reasons, because it is a self-evident matter. I would like to remind you that Pope Francisco, visiting Latvia, admitted that Latvia is known for his way - respect, cooperation and friendship between the various Christian churches that have managed to create unity, preserving the wealth and uniqueness of each and that living ecumenity is one of Latvia's characteristics. I am absolutely sure that just because it is self-evident, ecumenism is not recorded in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U115	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr Asheraden... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U116	The Commission has not supported proposal 13.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2344-U117	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - the proposal tabled by Members Muižniece and Ozola! Please, let's vote! For - 20, for - 47, for - 5. The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, I would like to present to you the application received from the Saeima Bureau, signed by Members Pūce, Bauman, Zamur, Stein and Liepkalns. These Members are asking the Saeima to declare a break from 19.00 today to 9 a.m. on December 16 of this year in the course of its remote emergency session on 2 December. We must vote on this proposal. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the motion put forward by Members of the Parliament in the form of a request to declare the parliamentary session of 2 December this year's remote extraordinary sitting interruption from 19.00 to 16 December this year! Please, let's vote! For - 71, for - 6 and for - 1. So the decision has been made. This sitting was suspended until 16 December this year. Before we finish tonight's work, please allow me to present Members' questions to the Saeima Bureau. Members Švecova, Stepanenko, Možvillo, Sprūde and Girgens have submitted a question to the Minister for Health Daniels Pavļuts “On ManaBalss.lv’s initiative “For a full hearing, especially for children with hearing impairment””. Members Stepanenko, Petraviča, Možvello, Švecova and Sprūde have submitted a question to Prime Minister Kariņš “On statements concerning the departure from the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights”. Members Zarins, Agešins, Clementjevs, Rubiks and Lochmele have submitted a question to the Minister for Health Daniel Pavlutas “On additional information to be provided in relation to Covid-19 statistics”. The fourth is the question of MEPs Papule, Ģirgens, Pucens, Dombrovskis and Petravičs to the Minister for Welfare Gatis Eglitis about the provision of unemployment benefit for unvaccinated persons. The fifth – question to the Member Armands Krauze, Viktors Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Raimonds Bergmanis and Edgars Taukars, Minister of Economics Janis Vitenbergs, about the sale of electricity produced by Latvenergo to local consumers in Latvia. Members' questions shall be referred to the Ministers and the Prime Minister. The registration of Members' presence is over. So it's a sitting break. Thank you for your work. Good evening! ( Interruption)
