ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2243-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! Let us begin the second extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on May 6, this year. Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin this with changes to the agenda of the sitting announced by the Saeima Bureau. Members Golubeva, Latkovsky, Benhena-Beken, Asheraden and Kalniņš ask for changes to the announced agenda of the sitting to be removed from item 3 (under the heading ‘Harmonous proposals’): draft decision on the ‘Declaration of Armenian genocide’ submitted by Members. One Member can speak about this, one against and one against. Mr. Yusch, you're going to speak...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2243-U2	Good morning, colleagues! I will, of course, say 'no' to the exclusion of this item on the agenda, because...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2243-U3	Thank you. Thus, Member Juris Jušas will speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2243-U4	Welcome again, colleagues. I am, of course, aroused some confusion as to why this item on the agenda, which was on the agenda of this sitting, was included, given that Members had decided last week that this issue should be seen on the agenda of the Saeima's next sitting... and I do not know the circumstances that are now laying the foundations for this question... That, to say, the will of the majority of Members expressed at the previous sitting of the Saeima is ignored and this issue is not being addressed right now. I call on my colleagues to vote so that we can continue to look at this issue and adopt this draft declaration.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2243-U5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Once again - Members Golubeva, Latkovsky, Benhena-Beken, Asheraden and Kalniņš have requested that the draft decision on the agenda for today's sitting, Declaration on Armenian genocide, be excluded - be submitted by Members from the draft decision on the agenda for the sitting under the heading on "Review of own motions". We will be voting in favour of excluding the draft decision. Please call me! Vote on the draft decision on "Declaration of Armenian genocide" (No. (631/Lm13) exclusion from the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, a decision on exclusion has been taken, this own-initiative proposal is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. We will continue to discuss the agenda of the sitting. On the agenda - reports by the Saeima Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. The Foreign Affairs Commission of the Saeima has submitted a draft decision ‘Declaration of the Armenian genocide conducted during the Osman Empire’. To find out if Members have... The procedure section is turned on. Do Members have objections to this... Colleagues, please make sure that the procedure section is turned on! Are Members opposed to the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this sitting? Member Jušas has reservations regarding the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this sitting. Please turn on the microphone for the Member of the House.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2243-U6	Colleagues, my only objection right now is... So - look at this particular question in this sitting, given that...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2243-U7	Thank you. So there are objections. Members have reservations. We must therefore vote in favour of including this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the Saeima's next sitting. One Member can speak 'for', one for 'no'. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Richard Kohl.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2243-U8	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I am truly sorry from the depths of the previous vote... I tried to apply for a debate to argue for exclusion, but... That is also the vote on the draft parliamentary declaration drawn up by the Foreign Affairs Commission. So... You know, it's been a couple months... The Foreign Commission held discussions on the Armenian genocide. At the start of this topic, there was no immediate support for the development and promotion of a draft parliamentary declaration: Members of the Commission really wanted to continue to look at this issue in depth. We heard all the interested parties - diplomats, historians and academics from both Turkey and Armenia. However, there is a draft statement on the Armenian genocide on the agenda of the Saeima - despite the fact that representatives of all political groups were aware of this issue and participated in the work of the Foreign Affairs Commission. This is not a simple question, and it needs to be done with due care. As the draft communication mentioned last week... the authors of the initiative, who have been working on the submitted version for two years, but it seems to have been prepared at the last moment. Undoubtedly, dubious numbers show that the Osman Empire has implemented genocide when it ceased to exist. It seems ironically that the text makes reference to the need to condemn genocide, but there is no condemnation itself. The wording of the communication does not make it clear whether Parliament really recognises the Armenian genocide or just agrees that there are certain facts. When the Foreign Affairs Commission yesterday invited the members of the Commission that signed the draft statement... colleagues to give reasons for the choice of these years and the specific wordings, instead of replying, we have heard such remarks as - well, it now has support... that the Foreign Affairs Commission was already able to join and correct errors and that it should not be turned into a political competition at all. Colleagues! The parliamentary roll of order clearly defines the procedure - how parliamentary work is going and what can or cannot be done in certain situations. The Foreign Affairs Commission could not join and correct anything - this was also explained very kindly by the Legal Bureau of the Saeima at the meeting of the Commission. However, no argument changed the need for the applicants to compete and to be the first. This was not changed by the arguments I and my colleagues have made about the fact that there is no room for offensive, superficial and provocative rhetoric on such sensitive issues. I will not speculate personally, but I will call you, my fellow Members, to think about the reasons why, suddenly, ignoring the normal work of Parliament, it was so insistious to try to pass through a project of questionable quality - the draft announcement by the Saeima. A couple of months of in-depth knowledge and understanding of the Armenian genocide issue - it was more than enough to allow the members of the Commission to notice the gross negligence of the draft statement and quickly prepare, examine and direct the draft alternative declaration. The draft declaration prepared by the Foreign Affairs Commission refers to the United Nations Convention on the Inadmissibility and Punishment of a Genocide, to the European Parliament resolution recognising the Armenian genocide, to the condemnation and condemnation of the Armenian genocide that was carried out during the Osman Empire, and to all its victims. If the majority of the Saeima believes that it is time for Parliament to make public its political position in recognition of the Armenian genocide, please, my fellow Members, let us do so properly and respect the victims of these crimes! Let us decide on a statement which is appropriate and correct, which is self-confident and which will not come later to be ashamed or to explain at international level, because if someone else seems to be not interested in what we accept here - that we accept it so... it is not, and it would be time to count on it. I invite you to support the inclusion of the draft parliamentary declaration drawn up by the Foreign Affairs Commission on the agenda of the next ordinary sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2243-U9	“Pret” has applied to speak to Romanas Nadiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2243-U10	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I will not repeat what I said at the previous sitting of the Saeima on the previous draft decision. I still do not see that the draft decision would really be analysed from a historical point of view. The Commission on Foreign Affairs does not invite historians on the one hand and on the other, so that we can examine this issue carefully, go into it and really assess what happened during that period. At present, I cannot vote in favour of the words included - such as the genocide, the tragedy. Yes, cruel events, tragic events - yes. But the fact that I could insult one of the parties involved in genocide at that time - I cannot do this at the moment if I do not have such facts and the Foreign Affairs Commission has not carefully analysed it - has gone into this matter. This draft decision, too, is prepared quickly without examining the issue. I would, however, call on the Commission to return to this issue, to call on the historians to analyse... and, if we really want to use the word genocide, to include in these drafts the Kurds, the Turks, the Azerbaijani, the Jews - those people who were killed during that period and who... was also made from the national side mentioned in this declaration... So that - please let us get to know all the facts of history, analyse them and then prepare a high-quality, good parliamentary statement condemning all violence against humanity, so that such events will never happen again in the future. The request to refer the matter back to the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2243-U11	Thank you, colleagues. One Member has spoken 'for', one Member has spoken 'no'. We will have to decide on the inclusion of this draft decision, the own-initiative proposal, on the agenda of the Saeima's next sitting. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of this own-initiative proposal - the draft decision on "Declaration of the Armenian genocide implemented during the Osman Empire" - to be put on the agenda of the Saeima's next sitting! Please, let's vote! On - 64, against - 4, refrain from - 7. The decision on inclusion was adopted - the draft decision is on the agenda of the next sitting of the Saeima. On the agenda, under the heading ‘Conclusion of the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust’. Date of Birth: a) 1 January 1966 b) 1 January 1966 c) 1 January 1966 c) 1 January 1966 d) 1 January 1966 d) 1 January 1966 d) 1 January 1966 d) 1 January 1966 d) 1 January 1966 d) 1 January 1966 d) 1 January 1966 d) 1 January 1966 d) 1 January 1966 d) 1 January 1966 d) 1 On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2243-U12	Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 5 May, the draft decision “On approval of May Āboliņš as a member of the State Audit Council” was reviewed. According to Section 27(1) of the State Audit Office Law, the members of the Council of the State Audit Office shall be approved by the Saeima for a period of four years on the recommendation of the Auditor General. Currently, the Council of the State Audit Office has one vacant post, as on 19 February 2021 the term of office expired in Inga Vārava. On the other hand, the second term of office of member Ilze Greenhof will expire on 19 May 2021. In order to select candidates for these posts, it was decided, on the initiative of the Auditor General, to organise a competition. The selection of tenderers took place in rounds. During the first round, the competition commission assessed the applicants’ compliance with the requirements and submitted written visions on the priorities of the work of the State Audit Office in the next four years. During the second round, the nominated applicants presented their vision of the work priorities of the State Audit Office in the next four years, explained their motivation to work in the position and answered the questions of the Commission. In accordance with the decision of the Commission, the third round was also organised, which evaluated in addition the competence and reputation of the applicants in management matters. The work experience of Maya Āboliņa between June 2006 and July 2020 is related to her work at the Bank of Latvia, where she has held various positions. He was Deputy Head of the Legal Administration between August 2012 and July 2020. The duties of Maya Āboliņa in the Bank of Latvia are related to the provision of internal legal service and the management of the legal administration team in cooperation with the Head of the Legal Administration, as well as the provision of extensive legal support for the institution's internal processes and development, offering possible solutions. May Āboliņa provided representation in expert working groups at national and Eurosystem level. Maija Āboliņa is the author of the legal framework for the implementation of Eurosystem monetary policy operations, has negotiated financial asset management agreements with international partners, has been the leading legal adviser on credit institutions' crisis issues, a member of the Working Group of Eurosystem Financial Law Experts, co-author of the draft law of the Bank of Latvia, as well as co-author of the opinions of the Bank of Latvia given to the Constitutional Court. From March 2019 Maija Āboliņa is a guest lecturer at Riga Law University, where she has created a bachelor and master programme in banking and financial market law. From September 2020, Maija Āboliņa is an external adviser to the Minister of Justice on European Union law, public administration and public procurement. Members of the Legal Commission of the Saeima have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Maya Āboliņš to be a member of the Council of the State Audit Office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2243-U13	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2243-U14	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, colleagues! The State Audit Office is an important institution in the public administration of Latvia, it is the only independent institution recorded in the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. And for the last 30 years since the restoration of our independence, which we celebrated yesterday, the State Audit Office has grown with the state of Latvia if it could say so. The State Audit Office has become an indispensable partner in the discovery and prevention of various shortcomings and insignificances of the financial auditor, who has counted the figures (in the same beginning it was undoubtedly a very important role). And more than financial audits... we have recently learned about audits of the efficiency of the State Audit Office. Those arguments that you, colleagues, here in the Saeima, have used to debate, for example, about the reform of municipalities and about those school buses that are travelling with children throughout the parish hours before bringing them to schools are the result of the work of the State Audit Office. Pools where a full visit cannot be ensured... And there is a great waste, also a waste of Riga City Council... All these questions have come on our public agenda... from the work of the State Audit Office. Issues and other issues of the port and southern bridge of Riga come not only into the attention of the State Audit Office, but also - after the control work - into the attention of law enforcement institutions. And the State Audit Office does not stop at this. Just... The most brightest audit this year... its conclusion... was concerned with the work of the law enforcement authorities and the need to improve it. Since the State Audit Office, when asking its questions, can look into the work of the institution... that rarely any researcher from the edge could say... It is a very important helper. However, talks about the State Audit Office as only a frightening institution that is bureaucratising, fading, demanding documents and cancellations have not finished, and the work of the State Audit Office needs to be further improved; relations with audited entities need to be further improved, as the State Audit Office says. In this respect, today we are looking at the Maya Āboliņš candidacy, which, according to the law, was announced by the Parliamentary Auditor General. However, for the first time we are looking at the candidacy of the member of the Council of the State, which was selected in an open competition. It was promised by the current Ombudsman, Rolands Irkis, when he was a candidate for the post of Auditor, and he has fulfilled his promise. I had the opportunity to meet and listen to candidates in both the political group and the Legal Commission. And addressed her qualification, her work in public administration and her desire to continue to contribute directly to the public sector. And she also addressed her view of the State Audit Office as a partner for the public sector. Maija Āboliņa spoke specifically about performance audits, which should be further developed and expanded. And it will also support us, as the Saeima, in carrying out the duties of parliamentary scrutiny. The competition, or rather, the selection, which took place, as we heard from Mr Irkle, in three rounds, gives the public an additional assurance that the best candidates were selected. It also gives the candidate himself the assurance of his/her eligibility for the post... and will provide such an independent opportunity to still fulfil its duties within the State Audit Council. Maija Āboliņa will be a good addition to the Council of the State Audit Office, so please support her candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2243-U15	Thank you. I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, what should be added?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2243-U16	Nothing is to be added. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2243-U17	Thank you. So let's vote. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on approval of May Āboliņš as a member of the Council of the State Audit Office! Please, let's vote! For - 76, for - no, for - 1. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting has been examined. I would like to inform you that the Foreign Affairs Commission has requested that an extraordinary sitting of the Saeima be convened after this sitting, with the draft decision on the 'Declaration of the Armenian genocide conducted during the Osman Empire' on the agenda. Preliminaryly, the draft decision excluded from this sitting - the draft decision on the Armenian genocide submitted by Members - as well as the request submitted by several Members to the Minister for Health "On the actions of Latvian officials and the real ones responsible for the procurement of vaccines" would also come to the next sitting. The Bureau will decide immediately after this meeting on the agenda for the next meeting and its announcement. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. So the next meeting would be at 10.30 a.m. You will be informed about its start by texting. I'm closing the sitting. Thank you.
