ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U1	Dear colleagues, On 28 January 2021, the Saeima opened its second remote emergency session. On the agenda - consideration of the draft decision. The draft decision “On the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 19 January 2021 No. 36, Order No 21 January 2021 Orders Nos 38 and 26 January 2021 51 amending Order of 6 November 2020 No. 655 ‘Proclaiming an emergency’. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U2	Good evening, colleagues! In its meeting of 27 January 2021, the Commission of Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention discussed three orders already mentioned by the head of the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers amending the order “On Promulgation of the Emergency situation”. As usual, I will refer only to the most significant amendments. As you know, the declared emergency situation is extended until 7 February 2021. This means that all pre-set limits are extended until this date, including that on weekends this sitting was scheduled, which would last from 22.00 a.m. until 5 a.m. These directives also provide for some exceptions, which I will mention here. In particular, exceptions are provided for in respect of restrictions on the on-the-spot training of nurses, on practical and clinical and vocational examinations and on-the-spot examinations for the renewal of registration of a medical person, on-the-spot examinations of certification of a medical person - in accordance with the requirements of epidemiological safety, of course. Similarly, training may be provided if the institution provides practical and clinical training at the same time for members of a group of a single educational establishment, subject to the epidemiological safety requirements - two-metre distance and the use of the oral and nasal cover - during the training process. As you know, it is intended that Class 1-4 will continue to learn remotely. There are exceptions to the practical part of individual vocational education programmes, which is necessary for the acquisition of professional skills or qualifications in the first half of 2021 and which cannot be carried out remotely, and... it is possible to comply with the epidemiological safety requirements - the two-metre distance already mentioned and the use of the oral and nasal cover. There are exceptions to the international test authority’s foreign language test, given that not more than five persons in one group are present in the same room. Of course, during and outside the course of the inspection, compliance with epidemiological safety requirements is required. Conditions for the operation of long-term social care centres and social rehabilitation centres have been strengthened. Provision is made for the possibility of a premium to be paid to officials of the institutions of the Ministry of the Interior who are in contact with Covid-19 infection management in their work, meaning that they are in contact with infected or potentially infected persons or are in contact with those who are subject to quarantine or self-insulation, or are involved in the testing process, or are participating in activities related to the provision of public order and the control of the restrictions imposed. The allowances shall be set at 50 per cent of the hourly salary rate, taking into account the time of engagement or contact of the official. The Commission, having heard representatives of the ministries, institutions, Infectologists, legal experts, government amendments to the Ordinance and the extension of the declared emergency situation until 7 February 2021, was found to be justified, proportionate and necessary in the specific situation, and therefore calls for support to be given to the draft decision prepared by the Commission. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U3	Thank you, Mr. Rancan. Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U4	Dear colleagues, Firstly, I wanted to point out that we will, as we can see, approve these three draft decisions at the same time, which I think... which I think is wrong, given that all these draft decisions talk about different things. If, for example, I did not want to support the draft decision on the extension of the emergency situation, I would be happy to support the draft decision on the premium for the staff of the home system. Thus, I will have no choice but to vote against, because two draft decisions are not favourable to the Latvian economy and citizens. Go on. I would also like to say that... Recall once again that these draft decisions have come late again, and certainly we, honourable colleagues, will soon have to agree with you on how we strengthen Parliament's role in dealing with this emergency, which is very long lasting. Once again, I remind you of the European Parliament resolution which sets out and recommends that Member States pay very serious attention to the way in which they are now... What is the state of democracy in the Member States at present, particularly when it comes to Parliament's role and the long-standing powers that are currently enjoyed by executive rather than by the decision-making power. So I... Of course, very soon we and our colleagues will also encourage changes to the emergency law, and we very much hope that you will listen to what the European Parliament resolution says, and pay attention to the fact that we cannot approve such decisions, which have long since entered into force - nothing changes from our approval, nothing happens. I would also like to add a few words about this so-called sitting. There is insufficient clear information, sufficient awareness of the times and days of this sitting. Until the beginning of the first sitting, society as a whole was well informed that there would be now, not a home sitting, but a commanding hour (let's call it the true name!) But after the next and next weeks, it was forgotten by many people because there were no big messages, it wasn't again... Mr Kariņš had forgotten that he had to take a sad speech in Panorama. So many people got into a situation, say, where they... forgot that they should not be out after 8 p.m. This is really a problem, and many people will have received penalties only for the fact that they have not been a shepherd carefully and have not noted the calendar that, behold, these days they should not go out. I understand that this commandant hour has saved thousands, thousands and thousands of people from being infected, just like the ban on purchasing plasticine, the colour of Guasha and everything else. I understand that you are trying very hard to save us from this infection with such goals... with such means, but obviously it is clear that you will have to change this strategy, because, as you see, nothing happens - nothing works out of what you are currently offering. And I would also like to add that we have also been contacted by students - medical students - who are very concerned about such strange forms of questionnaires that are distributed among them. They are invited to complete the forms - write their name and answer the question: Do you agree or do not agree to vaccination to continue... to resume on-site activities? And if you don't want to get vaccinated, you should also indicate why you don't want to. We have already received an answer from Mr Pavļuta that the opt-out from doctors will not involve sanctions, but students will probably have to prepare a separate question, because this is very important. People need to know their rights, they need to know if they're going to have an impact on their training, because they're going to choose... He will make his own personal choice as to whether he will. This is very important. I call on you not to support this draft decision, which is put together in one... I call on you to really review all the emergency regulation. This is a very long Brazilian series. I call for no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U5	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U6	Can you unite me in time, please?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U7	The times of your debate are united. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U8	Okay. Thank you. I just got a text message from an entrepreneur, a big entrepreneur, about everything you're doing. I quote: “Anarchy, bravure, and persecutiveness are upon us wherever you go. Laws are increasingly drastic for the people, while the brevure of power is ever higher, and for all intelligent things... “ There is one harsh word, but I will not say it. ‘ The presentation is ready, so we are saved." The same person wrote to me some time ago... It was about last week... He wrote that his wife and her daughter had gone for school to buy some blocks to study. Blocks can be bought, pens can not be bought. Pens can never be bought! That's funny, isn't it? That's how you protect us! So you're imposing penalties. If you drive two people in the car, you're fined EUR 500, but if you're a full bus, public transport, it's all right - then the virus doesn't come. These are the restrictions that you have imposed. People go to Estonia to buy... Today one businessman, by the way, sent pictures... travels to Estonia to buy books, because in Latvia only snippets can buy. Books, we have to go to Estonia. Go across the border from Valga... I mean, from Valka to Valga, buy books because they can because they keep books... there's no community at the books, it's not as dangerous as... We're very dangerous -- it's all on the books... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'm not going to talk about everything else, we all know that. I think... For them, the coalition, it seems that they will be able to continue with it for life and that people will accept it and accept it. I am telling you, the coalition, today, you will never forgive it... what you have done! You - with your encrypted heads (we all understand) and manic nails (we all understand)! We understand what happens now when you ban hairdressers, manicure, all the other people to work. Lone moms... The national association with the entire Debtor and Raivi Dzintar, who kept on their demographics... Lone mothers who bring up two children, who cannot be sent to school now, and who cannot work... They have to keep... And they can't get a benefit. Because if you ask for that benefit, then you will be sent the State Revenue Service with machines right away, you will have some audit. I met people here recently... People are talking to me, they say: “We did not claim those benefits, because as soon as we asked, it will be the big ones right away... you don't know any tests, we're gonna have to put on the bald. We calculated that it is more advantageous for us not to ask anything, because it is quite clear that in Latvia we just want to dress up the bald. Make the naked and the poor.’ Such a poor nation, but with a crystal clear reputation... I wonder that some crystal - clear reputation board has not yet been set up. As with the vaccination bureau. Office has no vaccines. By the way, there are no offices in Lithuania with five thousand euros of wages, where all homes have already been barred. You'll put it in the press, how it's going to happen to them! We have a Prime Minister, an American. I'm talking about this today... Prime Minister is an American. Well, let's go to Baden and talk about everything... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. They're all there from that Wilmington... He lived there together. Chomie. Why don't you talk about vaccines or anything... Is that so? What then do we need such a premiere, American, if there's no benefit for the country from it? Just so he can make those offshore transactions himself - on Skolas Street or on Tērbatas Street, or where? There are also all other restrictions. You can't play sports! On the mountain, you can't. Now is winter - beautiful winter. You can't be in the fresh air... All doctors say, everyone in a row says, that in the fresh air the viruses have the least danger, but the government says: “No, you cannot go there, you have to sit at home, become timid, because you cannot go to the mountain.” Because entrepreneurs can't earn already, so let's make it harder for them, because the support will be sometime... I don't know, in a hundred years. Oh, now you offer those 500 euros or how... 500 euros... as long as you pay five thousand to the vaccination office, otherwise no one from the private sector will go to the vaccination office to work. Well, you can tell the ducks. Now it's people who think about you. It's about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U9	Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U10	Dear President, Dear colleagues, We clearly understand that this virus exists, that people who did not have to die of it still die of this virus. We are hearing more and more that doctors who have been infected while saving others are also dying of this virus. They did not have to die of this virus either. We understand that certain restrictions, logical and weighed restrictions, should have been, but alongside weighed and logical restrictions, there should also be clear and logical support mechanisms. We have to understand that by approving such an order... project, the government confirms that it has not received any lessons. The state of emergency has been in place since 12 March last year. It's about to be a year. And what can we read today? The Minister for Health declares that there is a vaccination plan... Let me quote what the Minister for Health said: “We have a plan!Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The vaccination plan approved today by the government is detailed, digital and flexible. Uncertainty is the only certainty of this time; now we will be ready to deal with different situations. Both in the event of a delay in the supply of vaccines and in the event of a large number of vaccines." In other words, let us not vaccinate people when vaccines are available, let us not vaccinate people when vaccines are not available. Well, colleagues! What are we talking about?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This is actually not even funny anymore. If someone thought it was funny, for a while we could laugh at the new names or about the creation, but now we are playing with human lives. I do not even want to talk today about the economic chapter or about supporting entrepreneurs. I do not even want to talk about the actions of officials of the State Revenue Service who are now addressing people... even for pensioners, 13 years old, which they themselves had previously withdrawn, seek to recover the irrecoverable from them by imposing a fine in the amount of their pension. I do not even want to talk today about what we were talking about last time - the school learning process, grades 1 to 4. There are not only parents and young students, but also educators, because they have parallel... In the MS Teams environment, for class hours, where they are trying to bring all their young children together on the screen, they must also implement a new learning methodology based on competences. Well, this barrack... That's crazy! We hear that there is a shortage of vaccines in social centres, that is to say, they do not have vaccines, that there is a very high incidence of disease. But when these people are vaccinated, there is no clarity. When vaccines are given, will they actually receive, those people who are at risk? There is no explanation. When will seniors over 70 be given? There is no explanation. All we can hear about vaccination is that there's a plan to... at least to today a clear plan with realistic dates, with delivery dates... At least the opposition of the Saeima has not seen. And people don't have the answers to their questions. There are different new, mystical restrictions that change every week. Well, colleagues, that's not serious, and we can really count on a big emigration when this "measure" slowly... whether it will be this year or next year... It's over. Those people who have lost their jobs now want clarity. Also, parents who are currently forced to sit at home and serve as teachers' assistants and have lost part of their job, want to know when they will be able to return to work... those who still have that job. Therefore, colleagues, the Group of the Greens/Earths Union has decided to abstain today, without in any way voting in favour of these amendments by the Cabinet of Ministers, because these amendments are not aimed at a common understanding, so that we all understand why there are such restrictions and what support mechanisms are. All this in no way contributes to the well-being of our people and to the viability of our society (in terms of both direct and portable viability), so the Group of the Greens/Farmers Union will not vote today in favour of this order... the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U11	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U12	Colleagues! What I would like to add is - unfortunately, this low-quality series is going on because our Head of Government is not able or has not wanted to come here any time in these recent months and tell us what he himself is ready to present to us with regard to his vision, which he was supposed to have in terms of how we can get out of this crisis in a healthy way and - with at least some of the entrepreneurs who will remain here... At least some, at least some, of whom Reir does not claim his three euro, which he may wrongly have transferred, and then all bailiffs come knocking. Colleagues! We are already in a situation where children's right to education is violated, because not all children, not all first-class students... Children in grades 1-4 have access to computers. We still see that you ignore both teachers - both interest teachers and sports teachers - and all businessmen who are already knocking at your door every day. Every day the merchants knock: “Please don’t let us die! We can’t just pull it off!” The small rural shops that now have to look at whether blades and rakes or peat can be traded or not... And our government leader has no vision! He's just watching if the socks can now be sold or can't be sold. That is our level, colleagues, and it is simply a shame. You know what the new task of the vaccination office is? Make up groups who will be vaccinated and who will be privileged! They can go to the hockey championship. That's the level! We're gonna separate people now! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U13	Thank you. The name of Member Regina Lochmele. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U14	Hello, colleagues! In addition to what the opposition has already said, I would like to emphasise a number of things. What I will say should, of course, be heard by at least one of the representatives of the government. The fact that the Saeima has a role to play in making major decisions in the process of limiting the pandemic shows that today, now that we have to formally vote on already adopted and valid government orders, none (you can check) of the ministers and none of the parliamentary secretaries of the ministries are present. Nobody! I very much hope that they will be able to learn this perhaps through the media or any of the Members present from the ruling coalition, but they will be sending this message. So, point one. First. We, WELCOMES, demand that the Ministry of Education and Science urgently conducts an audit of absolutely all students on one question - whether they have a computer or some other device through which they can learn at a distance. The information that we have received at the moment is really very, very sad, that computers are lacking not only for those students who have so far learned in the remote process, but also for many primary school students... Class 1-4 students do not have such computers. I got news from a number of mums of many children. For example, in the family of six children, two students learn from their mother’s phone... and this phone doesn't exist. Other news is that - even more so! - schools that have been informed that children don't have these computers... they are not counted for being present at the class. This is absolutely unacceptable, and we demand that the Ministry of Education and Science require the Cabinet of Ministers to make funds available for unforeseen events... no matter where... or from your budget and provide each of Latvian students with an opportunity to learn at a distance. That's the first. Second. We demand that the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development urgently turn to Riga City Council, the Head of Riga Municipality, in order to stop the absolutely unacceptable practice in Riga public transport. What is happening there at the moment - it is beyond any borders! No distance absolutely is respected. All these orders, which limit people's ability to move, to be somewhere, to gather together and so on, end in reality when a person enters one of the buses, trolleybuses or trams of Riga. Perhaps, though, someone from the government in the morning or in the second half of the day, when people leave for work, will board a public transport vehicle and maybe look at it, perhaps take a police officer with them? And what are we going to punish about everything - people who do not respect distance, or yet Riga Municipality's leadership, who allows this situation? These are two screaming factors that do not allow us, Members of the Group, to vote in favour of all these orders today, despite the fact that there are some good things there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U15	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U16	Highly honored Head of the sitting! Colleagues! Good evening, everybody! On this order of the Cabinet of Ministers. Colleagues, I still think... Only today's discussion with representatives of the trade sector about lifting restrictions shows just how wrong we are getting on this issue. People in regions are growing... if you need goods that you need every day... Unfortunately, it is a contemporary reality that not only in the learning process, but also in everyday life... A number of citizens do not have the opportunity to drive somewhere, to order some goods in the e-environment, so that they can get to them what they need in everyday life. We also see that these restrictions are in some way inexplicable to the public... The more stupid they are, the less public takes them and the less serious they treat other restrictions that are really important and necessary. At present, it is the area of trade that raises the most questions. If a shop can be open, but half of the range can be taken, the other half can not be taken, this, in my opinion, is rather silly. And this is even the case in those shops (there are a number of shops) which only contain first-needed goods. I think that's not understandable. This is inconceivable to me and to the rest of society. On schools. There are also exceptional circumstances here, and I think the Ministry of Education and Science is doing absolutely enough in these exceptional circumstances to provide these learning conditions... make available to all children of Latvia. And now also in the field of education, dialogue with municipalities, with teachers is absolutely counterproductive. This is unacceptable in this crisis. And this order does not improve this situation, but continues to make this crisis even greater in the education system. The exit strategy approved today is a vaccination plan. The vaccination plan provides that both the population will apply for it and the employer will apply for it and the local authorities will collect and shape it... row registers, - under circumstances where it is not clear to anyone how they will then actually control their rows and how they will understand who is then who is not poet. In my opinion, colleagues, until vaccines are available and the most important thing is the delivery of vaccines in Latvia, we have managed to set up a vaccination office that deals with writing plans. Of course, plans can be written. While we are writing plans, vaccination is already very, very active in our neighbourhood in Lithuania. And as you can understand from the information in the public space, there are already social care home customers vaccinated. There's the first round... the first stage is already over while we are drawing plans and thinking about where to get these vaccines and when they will be available to us. Colleagues, in my opinion, this is the biggest crime that this government has committed against Latvian society, against the most vulnerable people of Latvia - those who need help from other people. It is this issue of non-supply of vaccines... It's... It was the biggest responsibility of the whole government to make them, because we all understand that this is the only way out. At present, there is an excellent e-environment plan, an electronic plan that can be repaired, but unfortunately there is no point in that plan until the vaccine itself is available. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U17	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U18	Hello, colleagues! In response to a little bit of questions about the education sector, I would like to dispel some specific myths or concerns. First. Knowing the situation with the availability of computers and discussing it with the Latvian Municipal Union, it is necessary to say that there is still a need to ensure, say, the basic level of... Some 2,500 computers are still missing at the moment. The Ministry of Education and Science is currently looking for money, but... I have to say, the ISM over the year... Since spring, he has organized and made the largest procurement... In Latvia's history, the largest purchases - the purchase of computers, smart devices - and provided local governments and schools, supported children, especially children's families, with the largest number of computers purchased in Latvia's history - 11 500 smart devices per year. It should also, of course, look at how the municipalities have resisted, how effectively they have used and distributed these devices. The State Audit Office report already shows that Ventspils Municipality, for example, has not effectively released these smart devices and part of the smart devices somewhere... does not know where they are now. It is certainly a question that should be looked at. The second key issue is Class 1-4. We're not recommending these kids... It is not recommended to spend online hours all day. Instead... From tomorrow we start to show... starts the second season of the world’s recognized solution “Your Class”. In the first wave of the crisis, it was recognised as one of the world's best solutions for learning during the crisis, and now we continue to broadcast it to cover this... Class 1-4 mostly... Necessity. And the third big thing. How we support the municipalities from ISM - we cooperate with all the big mobile data operators, and this cooperation will result in increased capacity in the next two months... Internet capacity for 300 Latvian schools. There are schools that have already received this capacity increase, and several hundred more schools will be able to increase this capacity, the Internet capacity. In addition to this, the Ministry of Education and Science has created an opportunity from its resources to compensate schools for internet expenditure for the next nine months. So that will be another support - to this all. Of course, let us continue to seek further support... different, if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U19	The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U20	Good evening, colleagues! Personally, I would like to say a great deal of thanks first to the doctors and, most of all, to myself, if there were a chance, to vote for no tax to be charged on their salaries and also on these bonuses that they are now earning. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, at present, there should also be solidarity with police and border guards. The police and border guards are currently working on the streets and there is a risk of infection, and the conditions are very difficult. They also feel emotional tension. The police are attacking the street, and they are also causing personal injury. Therefore, I believe that it is important to be united, joint and several now, in this emergency situation. Once again, I would like to stress the fact that police and border guards are not second-class workers, and they also depend on the epidemiological situation in our country. Medical and family doctors currently have 100 per cent premium, but the Ministry of the Interior, the home system employees are currently provided with only 50 per cent bonus in the second wave. And the same things are, so to speak, granted with great prayer. It should be borne in mind that in the home system many are at pre-retirement age and will retire at any time. Many have come from a community or from contact. Internal security is in a heavy position, and now... Over a seven-year period, the Ministry of the Interior is only expected to support 188 million, which is one third of the annual budget for defence. At the moment, wages are low. Premiums could provide incentives to work and help to overcome the crisis more quickly. Without the work of home workers, there is no point in the work of doctors. That's, like, the connected dishes. That is why I am calling for further... also the partners... consider the Ministry of the Interior as one of the most important ministries at present, in this extraordinary period. Personally, I'll give you... I can also share this information on how we then share money in this emergency situation. Each of you can safely get acquainted with these materials at the meeting of the Public Expenditure and Audit Commission of the Parliament on Tuesday - where we have spent more than two billion euros then. Looking at these indicators, we each... It would even be difficult for us to say that this is, let us say, a health crisis, because the Ministry of Transport receives the most - 403 billion. Similarly, the sharing of money between the same Ministry of Culture is incomprehensible so that we can film nine million films. At the same time, we see that only 2.1 million are allocated to the Ministry of the Interior. At the same time... I can also mention the Ministry of Health, which, with the money it receives - 83 million - ranks only in the fifth place. I would therefore call on all those present, as well as those who are hearing this speech, to assess, however, what our priorities are. At the moment, I see that the priority is road repair and traffic, not people who should pay extra benefits. And should also inform entrepreneurs when they could resume their activities. I would like to thank you very much for listening. Good day! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U21	Name to Member Edgar Tavar for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U22	Once again, colleagues, thank you. A little bit from... In fact, in response to what the coalition's representatives said, so that education for small... especially for small classes... Why am I talking about the little ones now... The first classes? Because at the moment, government representatives do not know where to marry our country. But for little children - for those who are currently studying in grades 1 or 4, at primary school... They will be the people who will have to lead this country after twenty or thirty years. Let us not deprive them of the opportunity to receive good education. In this respect, I would like to point out that it is not appropriate to experiment with a training programme during an emergency. The computer alone doesn't help. You need to be trained educator in return, motivated educator in return. Not only a computer, but also a good Internet connection. Are we checking this? When working with class remotely, is all this quality enough for children to also get visual material? And what Mr. Girgen said - I think it's very glamorous. For these money expenditures during an emergency. Perhaps it is also a certain response to why we are extending this state of emergency so often - we are extending without any discussion. The discussion in the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - was it a discussion? Well, it wasn't, colleagues, discussion! All we heard clearly there was what the representative of the Ministry of Education and Science said: that everything is bad... and that's why we're where we are. And there is absolutely no clarity. Finally, I would like to ask the question again, to call the coalition partners: say clearly and clearly what the criteria are: where will the emergency situation end? Are these criteria the number of sick people, the number of hospitalised people, the number of deaths or the number of healthy people? Tell them to know when it will be possible to return to the normal rhythm of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U23	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U24	Colleagues! I understand it is a late night, but I would like to say three things. The first thing is that, according to the logic we have when examining the orders taken by the Cabinet of Ministers, we can delay all this with a light mind and a light hand until the end of the epidemic and then take the whole chup! - and be approved in a single decision. In principle, every order by the Cabinet of Ministers relating to measures to prevent the spread of the virus should be subject to an appropriate decision by the Saeima. It is a logic that follows from the law, and it is a logical thinking, because it is not possible to combine all orders in one chup and make one decision - to support it all. It's losing meaning, it's turning into a farce. The other thing. We are talking about vaccination, we have long been talking that vaccination is a question of number one. Yesterday, the Prime Minister, speaking in “Mortal Panorama” said very interestingly that, behold, he and the members of the government are indignation at the fact that someone unknown has given up the vaccine. That indignation, I think, is the general trend that spread across society... indignation... This is the point two I wanted to say today. But there can be indignation in a separate person, it cannot be the head of government, because it means that public administration does not work in a crisis situation - not work badly, but does not work at all. And here's the vaccination plan without a vaccine, very flexible - one that can be changed every hour and moment. That is why what we are dealing with is an absurd theatre. And the third. I think, however, that it should be put an end once to all the misunderstandings that happen to us because - either the government takes full responsibility for the action, or the Saeima should be excluded from taking part in this farce. I think that, under conditions such as those existing today, to support or not support the relevant draft decision - that is empty action. I call on my colleagues who think equally not to take part in the vote on this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U25	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U26	Good evening, honourable colleagues! It's a very late night. We are still working, we have actually only dealt with the third issue. I would like to mention that the Cabinet is starting to work more quickly. In the past, we expected to bring orders from the Cabinet of Ministers, two, even three weeks. Now... Whereas, after eight days... The orders were already in the Saeima. The Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission works very quickly, fast already, but yet... What we expected today is that there will be an action plan for which we have a special office. We still do not see that action plan. Well, if there's no action plan... Whether it is the former Minister for Health or the existing Minister... but - it's one party. One party is responsible for this, and that office is also under their responsibility. But I just want to say this: Do you remember the second wave of the pandemic in Riga? It started from... There was a celebration on Tērbatas Street in July, August - from there began. And who was the organizer of the entire festival or entertainment program? The same as today's head office. Well, a very good coincidence! Whatever, it's just a coincidence, but we need to find where that dog is buried. And we want to pull that cat all the time behind the tail... towed, towed: well, dawg! Slow down, slow down... Now it doesn't work like that, slow down. This is very expensive for us. If we want to prevent that pandemic, then let us take action at once! Let's close the line right away, let's cut off the street tourism so that people sit at home, and that's it! Also, shops are not working. Where are the people going? Is he going to work? Well, yeah, today we're as public as if we're with masks, and then we're not masks behind the corner. And people are also entertaining somewhere for time - well, these are the traditions they are. Let us be honest: unfortunately, the community was also spreading in hospitals. How did it spread there? Why do those undergoing surgery become ill after being an operation with the community and die? There are many such cases too. Why when they call on eighty-year-olds, if they have a temperature of 40 degrees Fahrenheit [40 ° C]... The ambulance arrives and states: “Well yes, there is a temperature of 40 degrees Fahrenheit [40 ° C]. Keep sleeping here.” But why didn't they take their express analysis, check whether they had a community or not? Well, you don't have a mind or what? Do we want to save? Do we think that because they are 80 years old, we can do nothing to help? I have an incomprehensible situation. For computer security. In summer we heard that story, the successful story, that the Ministry of Education and Science delivered one computer to Valka. Well, Valka... The Riga Council adopted a budget, where as if one and a half million were intended for computer hardware, but for hundreds of thousands of Rigans, students, it is perhaps not too much. But in our country, there are 70,000 civil servants, each with one computer, maybe some have two as well. What are we doing with those old computers when we change computer technology? Let's go back to clean up those computers, and let's give them kids to work, to study, not to sit the whole family with one computer! We can't yet win the second wave... Although the schedule goes down, but slowly... Today goes down, tomorrow goes up... But French epidemiologists already warn that they, at least in France, are waiting for a third wave in March. Are we ready for the third wave? Now let's think about it, the respected ruling coalition! As you said today, the police cannot effectively control everyone because they are under attack. Well, please invite the Ministry of Defence to help the Ministry of the Interior because it is a problem for us, Latvia, all of us! It needs to be dealt with - the sooner, the better. Good luck to you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U27	The name of Member Regina Lochmele for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U28	I'll keep it. In principle, what is currently happening could be referred to as a public administration disaster. There are several examples that show that it is a disaster. About the situation in social care centres. The Prime Minister assigned it to the State Audit Office. The national control report on this issue will be ready... you know that? In March. March! We had a meeting of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government on this matter this Wednesday, and several dozens... heads of social care centres and representatives of municipalities. Of course, the ministries tried to get straight, but... I'll just tell you what I told you about Inese Lībere, head of the healthcare and social care centre in Lubāna County. She said that in December, when the care center's clients began mass illness, she tried to call out five times for emergency assistance, but the sick don't take all the symptoms. They said, “We won’t take it.” That means we leave these old people there just to die. There wasn't oxygen... All those people who were locked in social care centres... Everything is hard, people sit in prisons. There is no oxygen, no oxymeter, no care workers - they were sick, there were contacts. They were forced to ask the Ministry of Defence. Only I can't hear a report on whether or not it has happened. And a service test for refusing to buy an 800,000 Pfizer vaccine - that's something at all! The Head of the Cabinet of Ministers must request that a service check be carried out to find out who has taken this decision. There is indeed a public administration disaster, because the Prime Minister does not manage...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U29	Your debate is over. Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything else to be explained on behalf of the Commission, please? Mr. Rancan, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U30	Yes, thank you, colleagues, as usual, for the magnificent debate. Today we have had a very long debate, and I will just say very briefly that in the Commission we had Mr Perevosčikov, we had a very detailed presentation of what is happening now with the rates of disease. We have a very fragile stabilisation, and the rates of disease are now declining, indicating that these restrictions are working. It also presented what is happening in the economy. We have the understanding that these restrictions should continue for a while. But, of course, the Ministry of Economics is working accordingly to minimise the damage to the economy. And, of course, everything happens dynamically, the whole situation develops. The Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission will follow how all this develops, will definitely involve and listen to the government in the future. But at this point, I am calling for support for this decision, however, and for us to ensure that improvements are made and that the pandemic goes on a small scale. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U31	Please call me! Colleagues, please vote on the draft decision “On the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 19 January 2021 No. 36, Order No 21 January 2021 Orders Nos 38 and 26 January 2021 51 amending Order of 6 November 2020 No. 655 “Advertising the Emergency”! Please, let's vote! For - 53, for - 4, for - 21. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, The second section of the agenda is entitled ‘Handling Members’ requests’. Members Lubova Švecova, Didzis Šmits, Jūlija Stepanenko, Aldis Gobzems, Karina Sprūde, Edgars Tavars, Viktors Valainis, Evija Papule, Armands Krauze and Jānis Vucāns have submitted a request to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš “On the Prime Minister’s inability to provide strategic leadership in a crisis situation”. The word for motivation - Member Lubova Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U32	Yes, good evening, colleagues! I want to start my speech with a congratulations. Yes, I congratulate us on the fact that we finally have a vaccination plan, but we do not have a vaccine. I congratulate us on having a vaccination office, but we do not have a vaccine for the poor, we do not have vaccinated people in homes and social homes. We see that the government is building one institution after the other. At present, a vaccination office has been set up, and a further body dealing with psychologically-pedagogic assistance and child health care will also be created. I'm very... questions arise why the Prime Minister demands the resignation of a minister from time to time, but does not take responsibility for this? I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Saeima, as an example of parliamentary democracy, is an institution that can, and can reasonably, assess, decide and also accept the action of the government, the executive. I believe that all responsibility for the dead would be, for unprepared and unthinking action by starting training remotely... be responsible not only to certain ministers, but above all to the head of the government, as he is the head of the government, which ensures the communication of the respective restaurants, horizontal cooperation and also timely pro-active action. Unfortunately, already on 8 April 2020, opposition members during the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit pointed to the need to develop effective cooperation models between ministries, to ensure quality and effective work and to respond proactively to the pandemic challenge. The opposition members provided for the need to prepare mutual information exchange channels in the respective ministries as well as cooperation, to ensure the purchase of disinfectants for the needs of the low-income, poor, people with disabilities, and urged the Prime Minister to carry out the necessary preparatory work together with the responsible ministries. Unfortunately, the work has not been done in good time. Only in October appeared strategy, and only now appeared plan. Yes, we have a plan, but we don't have a vaccine. We have ministers, but there is no prime minister, who is responsible for killing people in nursing homes, for not being able to provide computers to their children for training at a distance. The Prime Minister should take full responsibility for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U33	Thank you. In accordance with the law, the request is to be submitted to the Request Commission. Thank you. Dear colleagues, The third item on the agenda is the Bureau reports. Members Lubova Švecova, Karina Sprūde, Jūlija Stepanenko, Uldis Augulis, Jānis Dūklavs, Janīna Jalinska, Edgars Tavars, Evija Papule, Aldis Gobzems and Viktors Valainis have submitted their own proposal – the draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to ensure continuity of children and youth sports classes”. On behalf of the applicants... Is that so? Do Members have reservations that we are looking at this issue at this sitting? Please apply if someone has objections. Does Member Lubova Švecova object?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U34	No, I do not object, I have applied for a debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U35	Yeah, thank you. So if there is no objection, we start to look at this item on the agenda. Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U36	Yes, thank you, colleagues. The restrictions introduced by the government, partly limiting the education of interests since 14 October 2020, were subsequently reinforced on 8 November by introducing an emergency situation in the country. Remote schooling has been a little stopover since last spring. The restrictions introduced significantly restricted and continued to restrict the ability of children and young people to communicate, socialise, including to play sports in comfort conditions at the meeting. In the public space, worrying statements by psychological and psycho-emotional experts from children and young people about the increase in stress and stress are increasingly emerging. The Ministry of Health has also created an opportunity to increase the funding of the Teens Resources Centre up to this year within the framework of the existing funding. The demand for this service has increased due to mood disorders caused by the Covid-19 pandemic in adolescents (from 11 to 18 years of age) – mild to moderate, depressed – and anxiety, which may lead to suicide or even increased risk of suicide over time. Information received from the Ministry of Health. Taking into account the epidemiological situation in the country and the need to comply with epidemiological safety measures, it is also necessary to assess, at the same time, the experience of Estonia and Finland, taking into account the model of implementation of regional restrictions, which assess the epidemiological situation in each municipality and, in principle, focus on reinforced protection measures specifically for risk groups and not for the general public. At the same time, it is not possible without proactive and horizontal cooperation between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education and Science to prepare in a timely and secure manner for the restoration of children and young people’s sports activities. It is important to be aware that early and competent action by officials depends not only on the physical health of our children and young people but also, perhaps, on life. Instead of supporting children's and young people's interests in education, it is not permissible for the government to renovate in good time the activities that can be done from the state of health - the Ministry of Health has set up a vaccination office, but the Centre for the Coordination of Peresors hopes to set up a pedagogical psychological support service. Do the ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Welfare and the services under their supervision, and their officials, not really understand that, instead of providing children and young people with the opportunity to do sports, new officials are being created? Colleagues, I ask you to support the draft decision because an alternative to children's and young people's sports activities is an increase in dependence, stress, psychological stress, which in the future will result in a need for treatment in social rehabilitation centres, or even possibly a loss of children. Let's not let that happen! And certainly it should not be possible to create a new structure for officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U37	On behalf of the applicants, Ms. Lubova Švecova spoke. Let's start a debate. The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U38	Dear colleagues, It is very important to understand that sport really helps to remove both psychosocial stress and, at this time too, to maintain good health for both children and adults. The Ministry of Education and Science has repeatedly indicated in various negotiations both in the operational activity group and in the Cabinet that controlled sport is definitely better and more supportive than it should be, say, somewhere in the underground, as it happens regularly. Or as it is now - many children are forced to do sport practically without or to do it at a very cold time, as we saw a few weeks ago. Thus, I cannot disagree with the Minister of Justice, Janis Bordans, who called on the government to become more open and to address these issues openly. And then it would also be very clear how the Ministry of Education and Science in the entrenched times... and the Minister has also pointed out in government sittings that sport for children should in particular be allowed. This should, of course, be allowed subject to all epidemiological rules: if necessary, masks, if necessary with a large number of square metres per individual; but physical activity must be present during this period. Sport certainly also reduces the psychological stress that is inevitably increasing. That is what we have seen. Consequently, in the light of all these arguments, I would like to say on behalf of the Young Conservatives that we will support this draft decision, or task. Hopefully, the coalition partners will join. Others have also made public comments that it is a low - moving lifestyle that has an amplifying effect in the case of the community’s disease. I therefore call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U39	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U40	Two meters, fresh air - these are one of the main things both the Prime Minister and other officials often mention when we talk about how best to protect ourselves and to help out directly of the code crisis. This prepared draft decision is specifically about children and young people, how they can participate in sports activities. They have now been discontinued and, in our opinion, the time period since the sporting activities has not taken place is already very critical. Thank you, Mr. Znotins. You mentioned that you are in government about this, but it is even more incomprehensible why the government then has such issues that are so important... Many experts in the field have pointed out how important it is to move. And not just from this... not just from the comma's point of view. If we also look at the most important need for movement from a person, a child and a young person at all... If we limit this right now, we are entering much more serious problems in the future, including - then it will be very difficult to cure those children. Illnesses may also occur. This, in my opinion, is very, very incomprehensible, and this is one of the greatest folly of this common restriction. If this is the way we can force our colleagues in the government to change the strategy of restrictions, then I really call for support for such an approach, such a task, even though the members of the government understand what the situation is, or to clarify it, or to provide any alternatives. Now, as has already been mentioned in the debate today, Mr. Girgens is spending on where the community's money is... Budgetary spending is a mirror of politics. And we can see that in those places where the most need is... Today we hear that the Ministry is fighting for money to buy computers for children. The same applies in this case. I think these are the places where you should not look... On the contrary, these are the places where we, the whole Saeima, could vote unanimously for the need for money, not as when we invested in airBaltic, on the “Latvian Railway”. The budget and financial (tax) commission with closed eyes, without seeing a business plan or seeing only small, small fragments of it, invested tens of million without any concept in certain areas without any justification, serious justifications that could be considered as some kind of justification for this type of investment. But where children need computers, where they need computers... In this regard too, children have limited on-site sports classes. Well, then we're looking for ways to make it work differently! How to ensure this in a wider space using the same masks, whatever, but under strict supervision. If it costs more, we give it money! But, colleagues, these unthinkable decisions will also be played in the future, and I do not want this to happen. I call for support for this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U41	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U42	First of all, colleagues, I would like to thank the New Conservative Group and Mr Znotiņš for supporting this draft decision today. We are very pleased that this could be an example that we could continue to follow. And this example is parliamentary involvement, really more active involvement in the work of the government, for which we already have in the European Union... The European Parliament has tried to point out. We really should be more active, and this can be the first example of cooperation between us all together. What I would like to add is what I think is still important and something to be done. This remains a long-standing problem with private interest education providers. I think it's an unfair situation in which they're two weeks... from 14 October to 9 November, when an emergency occurred - this period has not been covered by them. It is also a question of how private operators of interest education can deal with the rent of premises at the moment, because they often have to change... not often, but they need to move to children's remote training. Not all parents agree to remote training, and if this training is to be dealt with in specialised premises (depending on the type of sport), it is obviously clear that the decrease in children – customers, of course, immediately beat the organizers of the pocket. However, I would also like to add, as regards children's sport, that it is true that the health protocol, such as the model document also offered by sports coaches for this strict epidemiological surveillance, would, in my opinion, be a very good, very good map for the resumption of sports activities under this draft decision of the Saeima, because the coaches will be very well able to follow epidemiological safety measures, they have already expressed their readiness, they have expressed their willingness to resume the classes under certain conditions. And there should not be any doubt that it will be followed by how the child has washed his or her hands, how far he is from the other child and what requirements are further met, because we know that discipline in sport is always in the first place. Again, of course, these restrictions, which have so far hindered normal sports activities, were indeed not proportionate, because, as we know, tennis hall, for example, are very large, in which, let us say, the possibility of infecting one another at a distance is practically impossible, but we are now also prevented from doing so. The same applies to hockey classes, as well as outdoor classes, where these children could be attracted a little more than ten. Therefore, yes, honourable colleagues, we have a great pleasure and a great hope that the other colleagues in the coalition will support this draft decision and we will finally be able to help children out of this difficult situation, the communion crisis, because, as Mrs Svekova has already said, there is a very difficult situation for the mental health of young people, and, as the experts have pointed out, practically the only way out of this situation right now, when we have those restrictions to contact, to go to villages and to events, is to move. Even though teachers are trying to treat this movement in every way through a computer screen... various sports teachers and even ordinary teachers, Latvian language teachers, math teachers... they do, of course, make five-minute gymnastics breaks and make the kids move, but that's too little... if we are also talking about children who are serious in sport and who are very much in need. So thank you very much once again, colleagues. I am pleased and very much hopeful of the support of all other colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U43	Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U44	Good evening, colleagues! And it really is... It is also a great pleasure to hear from members of the coalition how many Latvian children and youth sports - especially children and youth sport! - it is important for us that we understand that there is not only a whole spirit in the healthy body, but that we understand that the physical activities of children and young people are also focused on the future growth of their personality. We are very often - at least many of us are also following professional athletes - happy about the international success of our athletes. Whether it's basketball or it's some other sport, but we understand that there's not only a goal but also a hard job at the bottom. Work, work and work again. In order to achieve results, children cannot afford to spend a half-year or a year of their professional (at least in the initial phase) activities in sport, and they must find a way out. And that is why it is really very important for us that children and young people can resume normal sports activities as soon as possible, including indoors, while respecting all the necessary safety requirements, as is the case here with this health safety protocol, which has been developed with the support of professionals, where perhaps there is still something else to stick with the epidemiologists, so that we really do not have any additional disease. But these children's sports classes are very important. Let us not hide the fact that many young people, young children, are already looking for different opportunities to train. Let us also not hide that we know that there are now a variety of illegal possibilities, no matter how ridiculous it may sound, training opportunities for young people. Many parents sign up to it just to keep their children alive, to the extent that they maintain (not even talking about improvement) their physical and sporting skills. And in such cases, we are not talking about absolutely no epidemiological restrictions or controls, because this is illegal. Therefore, it is really important for normal work to resume... children and young people... actually interest education, vocational sports schools, training either in sports halls or in other sports infrastructures to improve children's skills. Because we are looking at different age groups - whether they are smaller groups or are already U14, U16 - that every year, every month or... we even have talked to athletes in the circles - almost every workout gives a certain result. If we want to expect our young people to be healthy, sporty, to... often sport also provides them with a really good international education... We will not hide these examples; we are well aware of how many examples are there when we people have good international education in Europe or in the United States, thanks to their sporting performance, they are admitted to colleges or universities. It is very important for us to understand that... that we in this group, these of our future talents, do not abandon that... we see these sports trainings abroad, where the community is raging, but under various epidemiological conditions young athletes train, train them and improve them professionally to be a result. We can also expect medals and good international results in five, 10 or 20 years' time, but let us give them an opportunity to do so. Therefore, indeed, my fellow Members, please support this proposal actually tabled by the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U45	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U46	Good evening! First of all, I have to say that it is quite crazy that children should not play sports. If you can do this right here in the neighbouring countries and... You will agree that the virus is not so cunning that it knows that in Latvia it is children's sports that are very sticky, but in other countries children's sport as if it's not getting into it. And probably it's not right that even... those restrictions that are certain that if you want children now in winter, when it's beautiful winter, take them to the mountain to learn, say, ski or ride with a son, you have to log in there, I don't know some mystical lines because of these restrictions. And then we all wonder that Members... Look at me, now there's even a double kerb right now... And I'm going to cry to all the Members once again: how you get to the Saeima, it's like a piglets right away! Well, if you do something else when you're sitting away at home and you can't do sport, you can't train your children, teach them something cool... Life cannot be a source of joy. And then you, position, wonder that the whole nation and opposition are furious for you. How can we avoid allowing people to live their lives? It's such an ironic introductory part, but in essence. You always justify everything as science-based, you always say, “Trust in science!” And here I have to say, listening over the last year... Especially in recent months, when this trend “Trust in Science!” is being expressed very massively, with PR campaigns and so on, I have not heard any SPPC or any epidemiologist, or in some way in evidence, studies, statistical arguments that would indicate that children's sport is the most dangerous or in any way dangerous place, and that it is the place that should be banned. Children already have no schools - real schools. Another ban on physical activity that creates, perfects... We know that a child with a stable emotional nervous system is a full - time child who is fully employed and can develop fully. And the parents worry about it. It is only normal that we would allow children and young people sports classes. The more developed it will be... Our children will be more comprehensively developed, the better our future will be... We shoot ourselves in the foot of our country. The time of crisis is, of course, not easy, the time of crisis is difficult, but the time of crisis is also an opportunity, and I think it is total, absolute, absolute! - error to prohibit children's sports, to prohibit children from studying in person. We are just driving our country's competitiveness - driving! - Down. It's total, absolutely absolute! - It's stupid, it's just not stupid. Countries that are becoming increasingly competitive and rich have long been aware that education is the most important thing to invest in. Not only education by distance learning when there is a computer, but also education that is linked to a healthy lifestyle. And sport is a healthy lifestyle, especially for children and young people. We actually put them in a less healthy way by banning them. And, position, I would ask you to apply for a debate and to debate this issue. You were very active today (over ten people) about reading long speeches about foreign policy and criticising other countries, but this is the time we should criticise our government, your position in that Cabinet or where. And it would be very good if you were as active as in this discussion about children, about children's sport. Some of you have children, some do not, some do not understand, but those who have children - then, Members of the Saeima, parents of children, do you not see what is done to children with this all? We're not gonna save... Human lives will not be saved by prohibiting our children from being children, or by preventing our children from improving and improving fully. Sport, by the way, is also what points to competitiveness, to the will force that points to achievements. For nothing, some athletes become successful entrepreneurs after completing their career. It has a direct connection - not to be afraid of taking the initiative, not to be afraid of making decisions, fighting to the end, fighting, winning. Sport is the one who teaches it. It's not just a stoning ball or choking, or playing tennis, or swimming. And I call all of those televisions and all of them, well, I'd like to say, non-leans who hand over people who go swimming. No wonder they made lists to be sent during Soviet times. Not strangers did it, they did it by the same traitors, stukachi, as Latvian says, by the way. Do not give people, fellow humans who want to do something in life, let them live. It's been a year of suffering people. Year! And children, in particular. That is our future, our country's future. And we adults are responsible for the next generation - not they will be responsible for us, but we are responsible for them. We need to do everything in order to have a better life than a worse life. And solutions need to be sought, not by banning something, but by looking for solutions in a different way. Well, set different distances and something else, but let people move. Otherwise, we will be an uneducated, obese, sick, weak nation. We don't want to. It's not a position game, an opposition game or something else... it does not pay you anything from the budget. You don't have to spend any of your savings. Well yes, the position, every day parents write about this issue, about children, about children's sports, about children's education - every day. Very, very, very many parents. As a position, I want you also to understand that those people who watch parliament live see where it leads, and if you really think nothing will change if you continue to restrict all people, then it is not true. I'm just sorry that our new generation is compared to other countries... we simply make him unable to compete in all ways. We make him healthier, not educated in all areas. And what are you... We, me, you... Who will pay us its pensions if we have less educated society, when we are old and when those young people will say: “But you are there twenty years ago, you are... You didn't care about us! Why should we take care of you? We do the same.” It's already a company that we're helping each other. In fact, it is the work of politicians. The work of politicians is not to restrict, but to help, to support. All policy is business - let's call it so - to help people. That is why we are in Parliament. There's no other reason. We don't have to be in Parliament to play with each other. All of us in Parliament have the task of helping. Let's help! Once again, Members of the position, maybe one of you can apply for a debate and explain why you are not debating these issues? Why do you not have a 15 - minute talk on these questions? And also, Mr. Girgen... I know why Mr. Girgen spoke and started talking about the police and so on, but this is not a question of the police. This question is that we are already very close to totalitarianism. In fact, we are already in totalitarianism, all the signs of it... We punish people for standing at the Freedom Monument that they meet for all kinds of absolute folly. And at the same time, we say that we will have some kind of vaccine. I don't know, right now. Well, then we... then we have a plan, but if not now, then let us change the plan or something like that. You can't do that. It can for a short time, but not for a year, two or more. It's not gonna be that thing forever. And I know that many Members of the position do not like how I speak, as I speak in Parliament's debate, because I speak quite directly, and someone may be insulted or even insulted there. But isn't even one word from what I say true? You are already creating more and more ratings and opportunities for your competitors, your political competitors. Although, in fact, the crisis was that, that moment (and the spring proved it), when, as you say, you would have done everything for society, you would just... all ratings would rise to the sky. Nobody's... The opposition could not do anything from the point of view of such popularity or anything else. All of you would love to solve problems. And that is a rational approach. Now it's the opposite. The public can already see that you will not solve anything. This is the time when sweet speeches from the leaves about less important issues will not be helped, because now every family - every family of Latvia! - feel very uncomfortable when it comes to the decisions that have been made so far. These decisions are very often not understandable, because they can be easily compared with any other country - Lithuania, Estonia, Finland, Sweden, Germany, no matter. Support your children, please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U47	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision presented by Mr. Lubova Švekova, Ms. Karina Sprūde, Ms. Julia Stepanenko, Mr. Ulda Augulis, Mr. Janis Dūklava, Ms. Janina Jalinska, Mr. Edgars Tatars, Ms. Evija Papule, Ms. Alda Gobzems and Mr. Viktors Valaiņš! Please, let's vote! For - 93, for - no, for - 1. Decision adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined the agenda of the second remote emergency session on 28 January. I'll just read... I will present to you the questions that have been put to you by Members. Members Ivars Zariņš, Arturs Rubiks, Valerijus Agešins, Jānis Tutins and Ivans Klementjevs have submitted a question to the Minister of Transport To Tāliaitis “On the necessity and reasonableness of the creation of a four-band high-speed motorway”. The reason for the question is given to the Member Ivars Zarins. Please! Please apply for the debate, Mr Zarins. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U48	Yes, when we hear that we have major road infrastructure works, we want to find out in good time whether the Ministry of Transport is really aware of its priorities, understand what is really necessary at the moment for our road infrastructure, or indeed, let us say, make a four-band high-speed road parallel to Rail Baltica railway. Then there is a valid question, knowing our demographic trends in Latvia, how reasonable it will be to spend money on creating such a path. Perhaps, however, it is better to take care of Latvia's existing infrastructure in order? And what orders have already been invented? How will all of this be implemented? To make sure that this is done in the public interest, not to chart an ongoing procurement project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-28-PT13-2186-U49	Thank you. Your question will be referred to the Minister for Transport to Far Linkait. Members Edgars Tavars, Raimonds Bergmanis, Janīna Jalinska, Jānis Vucāns and Armands Krauze have submitted a question to the Minister of Finance Janis Reirs “On State Revenue Service (SRS) activities during COVER-19”. The Bureau shall refer the matter to the Minister for a reply. Dear colleagues, We're done today. Just registration. This has happened. Thank you for your work. Good evening!
