ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U1	Dear Members, Honourable Members! The agenda of the third remote extraordinary session of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 28 October 2021 is open. On the agenda: consideration of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U2	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! As you know, at the meeting of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, we discussed today the amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection. Let me tell you about the most important things that are being amended by this law. I think that the current morbidity and mortality rates, as well as the spread of infection, do not require additional comments. The main points of the draft law will concern the relationship between employers and workers and the compensation that a person can receive if the Covid-19 vaccine produces side effects, resulting in damage to health or even life. I'll tell you a little about... plus minus five minutes – and then the clarity will be greater. Thus, a new chapter on epidemiological safety in the working environment is added to the draft law. This Chapter provides that the employer shall organise the work in compliance with the epidemiological security measures laid down by the Cabinet of Ministers, subject to the requirements laid down in the relevant regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, including the requirements of an interoperable certificate confirming the fact of vaccination or congestion, the need for certain groups of professions to perform their duties or duties. The new chapter also provides that it is the employer who determines the categories or positions of employees under his management for which an interoperable certificate would be required. In turn, an employee is obliged to present such an interoperable certificate if the employer has determined that this is necessary for the further performance of his duties. The department shall also provide for the rights and actions of the employer in the event that the employee does not present or refuse to present such an interoperable certificate. It then follows that, under that law, there are sufficient grounds to believe that a staff member does not fulfil the relevant post for which he is required to present such a certificate. Go on. Where a staff member fails to present or refuse to present a certificate, the employer shall assess what to do with him in such a situation and assess whether he may be transferred to a post where such a certificate would not be necessary. However, if there are no such posts and objective circumstances, for reasons they cannot be transferred, the employer may decide to suspend the employee from performing his duties or transferring him or her away without paying his or her salary or salary for the period during which the person is not working or is absent. Private sector employers will be able to decide if they consider it necessary if they stop or send such a staff member.... that they could pay the salary. They will be able to do so, but it will never be possible for public administration to do so... i.e. public administration workers – the only option – to stand, i.e. not to retain their monthly salary. Go on. Detachment will be able to last for up to three months – such detachment and departure. In turn, after three months, if the employee has still not obtained the necessary interoperable certificate, the employer will be able to terminate the employment or service relationship with him without delay. I'll just say a little bit. So here is the phrase (also included in the law) – if the employee has not obtained this certificate without good reason. Let me just give you a reason... The draft law also states that the Cabinet of Ministers will issue regulations... or exceptions, in which cases a person, because of a medical condition (likely to know it will be with a doctor's consilium opinion), this certificate or... vaccination may not be carried out for an extensible reason. Thus, if there is no valid reason and the certificate is not obtained, the employer will be able to terminate immediately the service or employment relationship with such an employee by paying a monthly severance grant or, if there is a fixed salary, a monthly average return. On the other hand, a staff member will have the right if he does not hold this certificate and he does not want to obtain it and is prepared to leave the job, to apply for a contract of employment. He will be able to do so without complying with the deadline set in Section 100 of the Labour Law. If you're talking about public administration and public officials, then the employer... the official will be able to terminate his service immediately if he does not even intend to obtain this certificate... as soon as she is asked to do so. Of course, there are also exceptions here, when an employer will not be able to suspend or terminate an employment relationship on this basis – therefore, with a pregnant woman or a woman in the postpartum period for up to one year. If a woman is breast-feeding – throughout the period of breast-feeding, but not longer than two years of age. In such a case, the employer will have to offer the pregnant or breastfeeding woman a leave and maintain her previous average earnings. Thus, the draft law also provides that the Cabinet of Ministers will determine exceptions when an interoperable certificate may not be required. As I have already mentioned, the draft law also provides for a specific regulation on compensation in case vaccination against Covid-19 will have caused side effects which in turn will have caused serious damage to the health or life of the patient. Payment of compensations will be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers in accordance with the principles of reimbursement of medical risk fund. It will be further regulated there. The draft law also provides for an extended range of state institutions which, according to their competence, will be able to review administrative infringement cases regarding violations of epidemiological security measures, namely administrative inspections of municipalities, municipal police, state service of education quality, Consumer Rights Protection Centre, Food and Veterinary Service, State Labour Inspectorate, State Revenue Service, State Police, State Border Guard, State Fire and Rescue Service, as well as Health Inspectorate. Article 50 has been clarified a little... A little more precise, and it is also foreseen that it will be possible to impose not only a fine as previously imposed, but also a warning. The draft law provides that the law shall enter into force on the day following its publication. In the Commission, hearing the authors of the bill, which is the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Health... Also the Ministry of Defence... The Ombudsman's Office and, of course, the Legal Bureau... We understand that for the second reading there will be such technical things, but conceptually the draft law is supported by the Commission, as the Commission also supports urgency, understanding what is happening now in terms of morbidity, in terms of the number of dead people and in terms of hospital congestion. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the urgency of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U3	Thank you. First of all, we must vote in favour of declaring the draft law urgent. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on communicable Management” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! For - 47, for - 8, for - 8, for - 8. Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U4	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U5	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U6	Good afternoon, everybody again! The rapporteur explained in a rather detailed way what this draft law provides for in relation to all restrictions on unvaccinated ones, but not at all why it almost touched on what applies to all vaccinees... may relate, in particular, to the possible harm to be caused by these vaccines... in the case of compensation. I do not understand why this regulation applies a different regulation to other health damage in terms of possible vaccination damage... in other cases. I mean, with this bill... Those who drive this draft law offer that only serious damage, serious damage to their health or life will be compensated, and not any damage as required by the principles of the treatment risk fund. Then I have a question: why is such a specific regulation in relation to vaccination damage? Why did I ask? Because, in my opinion, this is one obvious example of how this government, this power, which has once failed a thorough vaccination process with its failed communication, once again provides an opportunity for all kinds of speculation. In particular, this power is aware that vaccination will be harmful. This is how such amendments can now be used to present that this vaccination is harmful to human health. Power itself is aware of this and therefore starts to limit it in time so that it is not necessary to pay for this possible damage... Only if obviously... someone dies or is going to be bad, and only if someone else proves it... I would therefore like to see the rapporteur... If you have been supported by the Commission, then one of the Commissions should apply and explain why this specific regulation applies to this vaccination: compensation for possible health damage. Otherwise, if there is no clarity here, you will once again, as I said, give an extra opportunity to torpedo the vaccination process by saying that this power is not prepared to take responsibility for the possible side effects that may arise from vaccination. My proposal, which I had already tabled in the previous bill, which stuck in the summer, is that we take the word "heavy" out and leave the same principle as... refers to any other possible adverse reactions from other non-cooperative medical procedures... all have the same principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U7	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U8	Colleagues, you are forcing people to vaccinate so that they can keep their jobs. Otherwise, it cannot be called. You propose criminal responsibility for people trying to bypass this law, and at the same time you say that in no way will you, in fact, see from these proposals and these amendments, really be held responsible for having some consequences after vaccination. We see this in living applications, we see it in people who are currently complaining about being ignored by all the authorities after vaccination and side effects. I have no doubt that exactly the same will happen to those people when this law is passed. This strange construction that these principles will be similar to those of the Medical Risk Fund suggests that in fact the intentions are not the most realistic, because you probably do not have enough resources to be able to compensate for the adverse reactions that may have occurred to someone, because your contract with these suppliers probably does not allow this possibility to be realised at all. If we are talking about the first part of this draft law, then yes, we see again the draft law of August that you did not set up because you were afraid because you thought the law would create very great public anger. This draft law is still perceived in society in a mixed and even very negative way. The fact that you have forced a large part of the people who did not want it to be vaccinated only so that they can keep their work in a service or in a private firm or public institution does not mean that they are currently in agreement with this draft law. Therefore, my fellow Members, this draft law, which attempts to circumvent the labour law with which we try to circumvent Article 6 of the Labour Law, will not be neglected by all the necessary institutions. We will do everything in our power to challenge this draft law in every possible way. If our opposition is no longer so strong and will not be able to collect 34 signatures to stop this bill, we know how to do it differently. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call on you not to simply abstain, as some have done here today with regard to urgency, but to really decide on which side you are on - whether you are talking to those people who write to you and complain that they are currently being completely denied the opportunity to work, whether you are trying to look at something and to shout with a possible future government or... for the future government. I think that time has come when it is still necessary to decide which side you are on. We will remain on the side of those people who stand for voluntary, just for voluntary, that... We can see that there are great changes in other countries on behalf of freedom. We see that France has voted against compulsory vaccination. We see that changes are taking place in Italy, too. So, colleagues, this system you create will collapse, it will collapse - and quite soon it will collapse. The fact that you are now trying, for fear, to criminalise the counterfeiting of certificates, that you are trying to fully push those people who will leave work after 15 November, denying them any social guarantees at all... This will, of course, in no way help you to be a respected politician, and you will in no way leave you in the memory of the people and in the history of the people who have managed to resolve the crisis, because what you are doing at the moment - you are exaggerating the Minister for Health (absolutely the Minister for Health!) responsibility for people's shoulders, for people working in service stations, for people working in the police, for people working in museums, zoos, schools... Everywhere people work - in public, municipal and private institutions, in factories - they are faced with this problem that you have created for them. And you believe that those people who have paid taxes so far so that you can pay for your fuel vouchers, Mr Latkovsky, must now be responsible for what your government has done wrong and for the fact that your government has once again spent all money on various advertising campaigns, offices and absolutely unnecessary expenditures?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And we are at where we are - at the siege, at the inability to deal with the crisis that you were able to anticipate and which you had to foresee. I will therefore call on those colleagues in the opposition who could vote against to do so... and would also call for this bill to be suspended and put to the vote, to the vote of the people. The fact that you really want to cover your fears with the fact that you will now prevent some Members of the Saeima from continuing to work, yes, you will definitely do so. Perhaps you will be very afraid to move forward on this draft law. This alone shows that you have reached complete despair. This will not help you to wash your people out of what you are creating at the moment, because if you do not allow some Members of the Saeima to continue their honest work, you will also remain betrayers to the people. I therefore call for the 'no' vote on this draft law and for an opportunity to stop this draft law in the middle of the opposition and offer the public how we really want to live - in two different groups or yet in one... in a united Latvian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U9	We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U10	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, The Government's current amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection are limited to unlawful restriction of rights and discrimination. The draft law explicitly and unjustly prioritises the base of coalition voters, placing all those who think differently below. I would also like to point out some problems in the draft law and related government decisions. First. It must be clear that restricting the availability of goods and services on the basis of the vaccination status is a clear discrimination. The unvaccinated person is forced to give up his free choice to decide on his body in order to ensure a living, save the work... maintaining a free choice to waive the right to be employed and to be equal with other members of society. As the vaccination process is irreversible, i.e. it does not create a free possibility to opt out of it in the future (like religious beliefs, skin colour, etc.), restricting the rights on the basis of it is as discriminatory as, for example, against a person of another religion. In addition to what has been said in society, there is, of course, fear of side effects, the risk of long-term health problems. All of this is considered legitimate reasons to choose not to receive vaccination. Since the government has not been able to answer these reasons with anything more than a denial, it must respect people's views. Secondly. For the authorisation of employers to use the vaccination status as a reason for leaving workers. This draft law undermines the equal right to work and the principles of the protection of these rights. Being aware of the coalition’s inability to show empathy to the more severely affected, a useful example. The unvaccinated person is not prepared to expose himself to an unknown health risk that would be abandoned, but will not be able to receive any support under Article 7.3 of this Covid-19 infectious law. And in such a situation, it is forced to stay without income, without access to services or without the right of choice. And this is a definition of almost discrimination. And thirdly. I would like to remind you that the task of the government is to introduce proportionate and as limited as possible measures to combat infection. The same two-metre distance, carrying masks, restricting assembly - these are the mechanisms that should be used. And they are not discriminatory to a particular group of society. The European Parliament resolution on the impact of Covid-19 prevention measures on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights states that "exceptional measures must not be discriminatory and governments must not use emergency legislation to achieve restrictions on fundamental rights", which is now taking place, "governments must also take a number of steps to mitigate the negative impact of such measures on citizens' lives". The Treaty also lays down rights. ‘ The State shall recognise and protect the fundamental human rights in accordance with this Constitution, laws and international treaties binding on Latvia.” “All people in Latvia are equal before the law and the court. Human rights shall be exercised without discrimination." “Everyone’s right to life is protected by law.” ‘Everyone has the right to liberty and to personal integrity.’ And it says: “The state protects the dignity and dignity of a person. Torture, other cruel or respectful treatment of a person shall be prohibited.’ But this really is torture and cruel treatment of a person, preventing him from working and earning a living. ‘ No one shall be subjected to a cruel or humiliating penalty.’ The Patient Law also states that “the consent of the patient to the treatment which he gives in oral, written or by acts which clearly confirm his consent and which gives him freedom” is necessary. ‘ It shall be prohibited to punish a patient or otherwise directly or indirectly cause him or her disadvantages if the patient defends his or her rights.’ Articles 12 and 23 of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights also determine this. Article 12: “The inviolability of private life, family, housing and correspondence of any person shall not be arbitrarily violated...”. Article 23: “Everyone has the right to work, to free choice of employment, to fair and favourable working conditions and to protection against unemployment.” But what is being done now is that they are no longer just restrictive measures and compulsory vaccination for certain professions; all this applies to everyone - to the citizen of our country who works. And more! Discrimination is also used to prevent these people, who are now not allowed to work, from receiving support, and to receive a wage subsidy. What the government is doing now is dealing only with discrimination against people. Yes, these unvaccinated are not your elite. So they're being punished. Consequently, I cannot support these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U11	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Juris Rancan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U12	Thank you for your word. What I would like to say is to respond to the demands made by Mr Zarins and also to explain what exactly happened in the Commission. I believe that it would be important to know about all these things. So, first. I would urge you not to change this particular provision of the law, trying to present it in something different from what is meant. In particular, the State does not try to say with this provision of the law that the vaccines in question are dangerous. On the contrary, the state regulates this situation by sending a message or a signal to the general public, encouraging people to vaccinate. In response to the demagogic, I would say, and the false argument that the country does not take any responsibility for this when establishing compulsory vaccination, I say: this is not true. That specific provision will determine in a fairly clear and precise way in which serious harm to health or life could be caused by the adverse effects of covidvaccine. But when we talked to the Commission about these things, it was that the Ministry of Health, when we asked... That is, I asked specifically about the existing regulation, which states that, in principle, grafting as a preventive measure is part of the broad concept of treatment, so... I thought that compensation could also be received now... without this specific provision of the law. However, the Ministry of Health explained to us that they interpret it in such a way that the vaccination process... This is exactly what the medicine means, but the vaccine itself, which is also the possible cause... that, however, it should be extended to medicinal products. I would say that it is not so clear, so that if now, now, before the law comes into force... the date of entry into force of this provision... If someone had these side effects and turned to compensation for the medical risk fund and institutions, and if someone tried to interpret them in this way, I would say that the Administrative Procedure Act contains a rule prohibiting legal obstruction. This means, in turn, that if there is no relevant regulation, the State cannot refuse to deal with the problem in question anyway. That is what we have to look for. And if someone tried to judge because of these side effects and made such applications, then I think he could. But it's clear that we have to do this - we have to make it even clearer so that people don't have to, so to say, go through the interpretations, including using more... Administrative Procedure Act, where it is stipulated that you must not refuse... country... especially in the case of compulsory vaccination... from these possible consequences. No one denies the fact that some effect can ever - perhaps one of a billion or a million - have any effect. So that would also be false information if someone says that now the state says something like that. Go on. I would also like to mention that it is this debate on legal interpretation... If it is interpreted as follows... I also asked the Ministry of Health to deal with the same compensation for all other vaccines currently mentioned in the Vaccination Regulations (Regulation of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 330 who, I would like to stress, have been vaccinated against children since 2000. These include vaccines against pertussis, poliomyelitis, tuberculosis, influenza, among other things... that they also develop an appropriate mechanism, the way in which they would then compensate. More regulation is needed, in other words. At the moment, we have this situation that we often have to deal with one of the narrow issues - the co-law, the co-situation... We are starting to appear where our weaknesses are. For example, one such thing is that the Volunteering Act does not provide that hospitals could organise voluntary work during an emergency or exceptional situation. That is why we are likely to place such a proposal at the moment specific to the community. But what I want to say to Members and to the public is that not only can the community be a situation in which voluntary work in hospitals may be needed, there may be any other disaster, so it should also be rectified. And here we see... It plays a positive role here... Yes, we have a very emotional legislative process at times, there is a huge number of criticisms, a huge number of so-called actors who are involved there - the government, the Saeima, the media, individual interest groups... There are so many involved, so it is so difficult to make these specific decisions. But anyway... I believe that we are moving in the right direction and putting legislation in order. That's why... This particular provision is also meant to this effect: to make it clear to people who have not yet been vaccinated and to send a clear signal that the State is taking responsibility for this compulsory vaccination. So I call on everyone who has not vaccinated to continue to vaccinate. And if you're really so afraid of the consequences... If they exist, the State assumes responsibility for compensation. For my part, too, I called on the Ministry of Health to put in place internal procedures so that these specific adverse reactions are investigated as a matter of priority - as a matter of priority over all others. That means that a person was poking against the Covide, immediately, suddenly, there were health problems, and it is suspected that this is the effect of the Covidvaccine. In order for such cases to be investigated as quickly as possible and these compensations to be paid as quickly as possible. At the moment, the draft law says that this process can take up to six months. So, within six months, there must be that final decision. If there is a need for something longer, then it can also be extended. But its essence - what the government wants to say with this - is absolutely necessary, it is the state that needs... dealing with the situation. So that I would call on the opposition to be constructive and not try to interpret the norms of the law contrary to how they were meant in this draft law. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U13	The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U14	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Hello, colleagues! Hello, those who are watching and listening! For two years now, the government has been trying to deal with this problem of the kovid, and unfortunately, all attempts have come to an end with some fiasco. And the last straw of despair is to try to build up their problems in the shoulders of the population. It reminds us of the work of the Soviet-era colhoza firefighters: they arrive precisely at the barn of the burned wall at the time when the last possible degasser, which was burning there, ends. Talking about this attempt to reanimate again, in my view, a completely dead law, try to put a new life into it and run it back into the nations - it reminds of such a desperate attempt: either it did not happen, let us try again, maybe the opposition sleeps or is as otherwise busy with something; we will collect here and decide that it was good, however, that this dead bill is being raised up and released to the nations, and it will be Latvia's savior... and so on. Yes, this law will save... not the lives of people, this law will save some good for the follow-up of a self-confident minister or some business project. There is no other explanation. You don't have to excite Members that hospitals die and there are horrors. They also die from flu, they die from cancer, and they die from many other diseases that are not fashionable and that no one is talking about. Christmas is coming. We will still face the fact that, before Christmas, charity is organised, which collects money for our own citizens, our own children, who, for one reason or another, have suffered from diseases that are not fashionable and for which there is no public support. But these are the inhabitants of our country! And in the end, they're also... Their parents have also paid taxes, and they have trusted in the country. The country has caught them, left them open. Specifically on this law - it is regrettable that living on something misunderstood is still taking place... In a bubble, convinced that this law will not do anything wrong. But I have reminded you many times that behind the white signs - with the inscription “Riga” and the pair of red stripes - there are people who regrettably... this law will have to go to the side where part of the society is now... and simply because they will not be able to work or receive income. The country is turning its backs against those who are not guilty of the fact that the government has set up a expensive vaccination office, that the government has not been able to fund the purchase of vaccines, and that still people cannot get answers to their questions, because none of the cantores that are easily built and hidden behind beautiful words, beautiful names... is still not available, and if people have questions, they can still not call anyone. There's no phone number, there's no communication capability. This is exactly what we saw by the Latvian Medical Society and the Minister of Health... in these negotiations. It turns out that they can't talk to each other or call each other. Obviously, they too. If there is no information exchange at this level, then what can we expect from informing citizens?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The latest news - now attracted municipal libraries, they try to persuade people in every way. On the one hand, good, but on the other hand, the attempt to turn to a straw that will not save this situation again. People are tired that every day nothing else can be seen in the news: the community is still sick, the community is infected anyway, and the community is still dead anyway. This information simply casts people away, does not encourage them to go and do something because they understand: the government is unable to deal with this problem and to be simpler, makes some kind of inner circus - posts with each other, calms down, and it ends all this, and everything will continue in the usual order - as this business project should go. On what was heard by the Commission - if something bad happens from vaccination side effects, the state will compensate. I understand that the Ministry of Health has some kind of prescription; that a person has at least three or four lives or health: if one is damaged by a vaccine, he pays compensation, he is re-starting, he has new health. Or maybe I don't understand anything from the health sector and from human life as such? For me, it looks like a rhetoric that it will not be bad if there are any side effects - we will pay compensation, and a person will be able to live peacefully. Anyone who imagines this as such a easy walk in the forest to feel in the skin of people already experiencing complications from these vaccines. I am not an anti-vaccine, I also call on my neighbors to decide to vaccinate, but to do so on a voluntary basis if they want to and are aware of it. So I think this law is dead and dead. And maybe it would be appropriate to follow that ancient Indian parun “If a horse is dead, then you have to stop riding” instead of following the ancient Latvian tradition that various actions with this dead horse are carried out - maybe you will be able to persuade him to get up and start going. Colleagues! This law - in the same way as it is today - is, to be honest, deadly to our economy and will put on our conscience those people who will be forced to leave the law, lose their income and lose their lives, not in a natural way. Let's think about it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U15	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U16	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Dear colleagues, If this bill can be described with one phrase, then I think it best fits in with what has ever been said by a famous American writer, Isaac Azimov, that violence is the last salvation of the incompetent. Of course, perhaps we are not yet talking about violence as such, but it is also impossible to call this solution a government attempt, another attempt, convincing people. Clearly, it is already quite far from persuading people and... whether or not we call it mandatory or forced... it's already getting pretty, pretty close... But, colleagues, the main question that needs to be asked is: will this draft law achieve or achieve its objective? And to answer that, of course, you need to understand first what the goal is. Is the goal somehow to prevent people from becoming infected with the community? If you think so, then I will ask you to think about it again and carefully. Even a month ago, when I spoke to you, I told you that, after all, it was impossible to prevent the spread of the virus as such. After all, there will be: all of them either flaking, or vaccinating, or... It is likely that both the flakes and the vaccines will be used, as well as the flakes. It is very likely that a large proportion of those who will vaccinate will also leak out of the cords. At least, as far as we can judge from what we know from expert assessments, from science, this virus is so: it seems that vaccines do not do such a very good job - to protect vaccinated people from infection. Yes, the likelihood of infection in the vaccinees is lower than in the unvaccinated ones, but it still appears to be quite relevant. They really do a very good job in that they seriously reduce the likelihood of severe congestion and, of course, of death. Vaccines prevent death, prevent hospitalisation, and prevent serious forms of disease, but do not seem to be so well protected from infection. Look also at what is happening in those countries where vaccination levels are very high, perhaps among the highest in the world. The same is true of Denmark. Today, we know that a new wave of infection has begun in Denmark. Singapore... and so on. Dear colleagues, I think it should have been clear for this time that the main objective is not to prevent infection, but to protect the risk groups from infection, above all the seniors. But here... Colleagues, look at this draft law and ask yourself: does this draft law really focus on their main aim - to promote the vaccination of seniors, those groups at risk? I am afraid that the answer would be: not so much, at least not directly. Even in an annotation of the bill... If you find the word “older” there, then you will find the word “older” only in the description of the current situation. This draft law does not introduce it as such a direct purpose - to vaccinate seniors. I fear that the government still does not understand that vaccination of seniors is the main objective that goes beyond everything. That's what I can do at least when I see... Look, colleagues, at the agenda of the Cabinet of Ministers this week, look at that report... to what the Cabinet of Ministers shows from the Ministry of Health... on the vaccination process! You will not see it there, you will not see anything about the vaccination of older people as a separate risk group. This report is about vaccination in general; there is nothing separate from the government. No specific vaccination of the senior, this group, is reported. This means that the government still does not understand that it's all about vaccination of seniors, because... 80-83 per cent... it is the seniors - it is this risk group! - there are those who cause the hospital overload. So, colleagues, the main problem with this draft law is this. As I said, the government is not trying to solve... To achieve what is a real goal, it does not seek to prevent excessive hospital admissions. I can say that I cannot agree with the government method. I see that the government, when proposing this solution, has a focus on the wrong target group. I see that the government is showing its inability to convince and is increasingly going in the direction of a forced method. I see that the government ignores this large group - the people who have been overloaded and thus got immunity in the form of natural - flaking - but has not recorded the fact of the overloading. Of course, these people will be extremely opposed to vaccination because they will feel that they already have natural immunity. Colleagues! It is a very big question as to whether the method of government - the punishment of people who refuse to get vaccinated - is proportionate, because, as we remember, very recently the government proposed such a solution - to throw these people out of the street at all. A few days later, the government amended its decision and now proposes that they pay one month... ‘high’ compensation. Of course, no one is talking here about making these people... to send them completely, so to say, on paid leave, but it is... to say that there should be some proportionality. There's a lot of doubt as to whether the government... In view of the urgency and unthinking nature of the government’s decisions, it is a big question of whether this concrete solution is also well thought out. Unfortunately, the government is promoting the polarisation of society by trying to divide society into two camps: if you are against what the government is proposing, then you are definitely in the anti-vaccine camp. Unfortunately, this situation, its polarisation, has reached such a level that we even... family doctors are beginning to talk about the great expected mortality of seniors, saying that, here's a positive thing for this... that it will relieve the social budget. So, colleagues, it is difficult to agree to this proposed solution. However, we have this: there is a ruling coalition, which we see fully collectively takes responsibility - together with the government - for all of its own, so to speak, solution. We will see if this solution works. I tell you that I see that the government does not understand the problem and the solution proposed will not work, but will of course bring about a very large polarisation in society. And, of course, it is not only the responsibility of the government, but it is also the responsibility of all the ruling coalitions. And the moment will come, the day will come when all of this will have to be politically answered. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U17	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U18	Hello, colleagues! Unfortunately, I have to start with the same call that I had addressed to the government in my previous speech. You have to step back. Do you really not understand that? Do you not understand that you simply don't hear anyone - experts, society or opposition? You think you know everything, but... You only have to do one thing: the government has to admit that the fight for the vaccination coverage has already been lost in the summer, because in September we had to have a vaccination coverage so that we can enter this epidemic by collective immunity in the autumn of this year. This has not been achieved. This has not been achieved, and because it has not been achieved, we have to thank the government for its powerlessness and for its impotence. Absolutely. What I warned about a year ago has happened. At present, all fairies, all fairies are already stereotyped and even mythologically perceiving people, and it is no longer possible to remove them from their heads. You could force them to vaccinate, but they'll always see you as their enemies. Unfortunately, the government must recognise... and you know it's great, because scientists and experts have pointed this out to you in government sittings... then there were those mathematical models that clearly and lightly showed that, despite the current efforts to force people to vaccinate, people will continue to die, the number of infected people will continue to grow and this will happen until the New Year, because those who you are forced to vaccinate will gain immunity... count, please!... about to the New Year. And what happens? The person will get his first ankle, but it will still become infected, and this will only exacerbate the stereotypes of people that there is a link between the vaccine and the disease. Unfortunately, this is the consequence that the government lost its fight for the vaccination coverage already in summer. And in the autumn, we entered with insufficient public protection against the upcoming epidemic - the delta virus that we all knew about, but the government still did not hear these warnings, did not prepare a plan to avoid it. Once again, you will condemn the opposition: “What are you offering in a positive way? Do you have a plan?’ Once again - yes, of course, since the beginning of the pandemic, the opposition has a plan that varies according to context, depending on how the pandemic spreads globally and specifically in Latvia. Let me just say what I think is the most important thing at the moment: those measures that I consider to be priority measures. We, the Group, believe that we need to focus on two basic measures. The first is an increase in the rate of vaccination of at-risk groups and the second is primary care for already infected people and saving the lives of severely ill people. Now, by score. First. Increase in the rate of vaccination of at-risk groups. What must be done? Please activate your family doctors! Please allocate additional resources to them, as still - still! - all people aged 60+ have not been contacted, and all chronic patients are still not contacted. I have some people as markers for whom I regularly call and ask: “Did you, please, call your family doctor?” No, no one had called these people in one and a half years. So first of all, I stress once again - activate family doctors. Second, to address the pensioners - everyone! - individually and in the language in which they understand, i.e. their mother tongue. You must leave aside all the fights for the protection of the state language. At the moment, only one protection is important to us: the protection of human lives. We have to get the seniors at home. There must be a clear plan - when each person at age 60+ will be reached. This was about the first point, i.e. vaccination of at-risk groups. The same applies to people with disabilities; we must reach absolutely every one of these people. We must put an end to the practice that the vaccination coverage is achieved at the expense of the number of young people. Why should we vaccinate children and young people when we first need to vaccinate risk groups? Second. Primary care for infected people. What is the story about? A person becomes infected, has symptoms, but he does not yet know if he has a community. Even if he is confirmed to be ill, he continues to be consulted by phone, but he still does not have clear and clear information about how he should act. A person should understand that when he is no longer suffering from temperature but suffers from weakness, this may be the beginning of the collective pneumonia, but whether it is due to community pneumonia, which means virus-induced pneumonia, could only be detected by X-rays or MRI. Just that. A we have this: a person stays at home until he can't breathe anymore, then he calls it fast, then... A ambulance is standing and waiting for him to be admitted to a hospital or not. And, according to doctors, it is sometimes that people die without even reaching the reception unit in the hospital. In our country, people are not aware of how to determine the severity of the illness at home. They are not aware of this. That is why there are so many in the hospital now, for example, men between the ages of 40 and 60, because it is men who fear doctors until the last moment and think: I am strong, I am sporty, I will endure. However, it is precisely such people who die at the moment - next to risk groups, next to pensioners. Go on. Saving the lives of severely ill people. The fact that a person is brought to a hospital does not mean that he is guaranteed absolute quality treatment. Do you have information about the lack of oxygen in hospitals in Latvia... Is that so? Do you have information that a supplier providing both public hospitals and regional hospitals does not deal with the demand for oxygen for small cylinders? Do you have any information that both university hospitals have not provided for the installation of additional tanks, so that all people who are taken to the established or newly created units, who sleep in commissons, are transferred on a centralised basis? It is precisely because large hospitals - university hospitals - are demanding those small oxygen cylinders, that regional hospitals are lacking them. Today, I have been told that a new department is being prepared in Sloka Hospital for communal patients, but there is no oxygen at all. You're going to take people to hospitals where they just don't have that oxygen. For oxygen, it must be taken care of first. THE FRATURE today will abstain from voting on this bill, as the situation has not changed for a long time. You try to put in one law both good things and those that are totally unacceptable to any normal person. WELCOMES vaccination, but it is imperative against forced vaccination and violations of human rights at work. My colleague, Ivars Zarins, has already spoken about this. What is good in this law is finally there is a rule that states will pay compensation to a person if, after receiving the vaccine, he has some side effects. This norm is there and also some other norms that really protect human health. But we will never vote in favour of a law that will contain things - rules that tell an unvaccinated person that he no longer has the right to work and therefore has no chance of getting a fair wage to feed his family. Yes, we will abstain from the vote, but... and still hope that this government will fall, because it is, of course, this government that is responsible for what is currently happening in Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U19	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U20	Latvian society! I want you to listen very carefully to a number of arguments - both legal arguments and statistical arguments - as well as to what history in general has actually been. So this bill talks about the state's support... and will pay compensations, and so on. I have practiced as a lawyer in the past, and I have practiced quite a number of cases in which the victims claim compensation, including from the state. Dear people, the highest compensation paid by the state to people, is about 20,000 - about 20,000! - Death. When parachutes drowned in Daugava, the family came to court, the state paid three... She was sentenced to many years in trial... sentenced each of the children to three thousand - compensation for the deceased father. Something like... And now with a big pump says that the state will compensate for something. You see, the problem is, in other cases, where I've been... It's been for many years to judge... Moreover, these courts are always on the national side. In fact, it is hopeless: people have something to do there. It doesn't work. It does not work in these circumstances as it is today, and people will simply not believe, because the objective reality of life is that the state does not compensate for anything. The country chats people, and no compensation in real life... tangible... Those that are adequate in relation to various accidents are simply not in Latvia. Even in the Zolitude case, people had to judge for many years, fight to get compensation from a private company by means of reconciliation; it wasn't quite the case that it was compensated by the state... or that, at least, the State has been adjudicated very quickly. So, from that point of view, that rule is absolutely... will not achieve any objective. Go on. From a legal point of view, it is, of course, simply an end to anti-democratic and cynicism: to prevent people from working, to deny compensation for not being able to work. ( Well, more cynical it was only in concentration camps.) And more! This is human rights, if we speak from a legal point of view! - And that won't work. Go on. The fact that people are talking here is that vaccination will now save the world. You see, what you're not talking about, but you should talk... And I say it as a man who... I have not vaccinated the community, but I have vaccinated other diseases throughout my life. And it has been my free choice. I look at the actual situation in Latvia and the difference between countries that successfully or quite successfully fight the so-called pandemic. So our difference from it is as if we should get to the moon or to Saturn - so great, the difference measured in the light years. I mean, I explained. Oxygen cylinders, portable oxygen devices... Why are they not purchased and distributed to family doctors? This would be a means of relaxing the healthcare system. This could have been done for two years. For two years, portable oxygen systems could be purchased and delivered to people at home. It did so in Sweden, it did in Estonia; it does not do so in Latvia. 500 million were stolen in Latvia - real! -, somewhere lays down, but - not for the treatment of co-morbids. The second thing that was done in the same Sweden, Estonia - these are examples of the closest countries, I will not talk about the examples of the more distant countries - was that the country bought so-called monoclonal homemakers for the early stages of the disease. Why are they important? I take today's publication, i.e. I open the SPC website, and I see 139 people dead in September. Note: for all the dead (me emphasis - for all!) one or more comorbidities, both vaccinated and unvaccinated. For everyone, one or more illnesses! What does that mean? This means that this disease, the community, is harmful especially to those who are sick. But what are we doing? We put people down, we're deteriorating their psycho-emotional status, we're not letting them do sports. So... Those I'm talking about are people with very high body size, people with overweight problems, with sugar... problems with unhealthy lifestyles and so on. Most of them - they are not healthy, strong, young people. Most of them are unhealthy people. And we promote a sick society! We are not prepared in other positions either. Go on. Let us talk about other positions. I have to repeat what I have already said, but that is essential. Riga 1st hospital - a huge body in the centre of Riga that could be used. There are no units in this hospital where oxygen could be supplied to the cohabitee beds. It's just not objectively ready... in full. We still have such a super-crisis, and there is still a virtually empty huge complex in the center of Riga. The Ministry of Defence has hundreds of millions of budgets... He, Pabrick, dances in that Adajos... The hospital “Linezers” is empty standing, completely empty, - no commisson. Talk about some kind of field hospital. Negotiations are currently under way with the 2nd hospital (not to be said to be very successful). Paul Stradins Clinical University Hospital and “Gailezers” – Coupling... We get people laid off, actually don't let people work for manicure, hairdressers... The beauty industry as a whole is not allowed to work, although many people in this sector have had skills in health care; they have had to undergo some kind of training (at least courses!) in order to be able to work in the beauty industry. These people could be employed in the care of patients. This is not done. It's ginkled that we don't have enough staff... and in that spirit. Consider these questions, please. And now you imagine that vaccination will solve all the problems of life. Vaccination will not solve all the problems of life. Vaccination cannot solve these. Primary healthcare and disaster. It's all over! All through it is because people are simply “preserved” - at home “preserved”. I can tell my personal experience, I don't have to look far. I found a positive result from the co-heavy test - positive! - And I... I don't blame anyone for anything... I was very politely called by an epidemiologist and asked him to explain what contacts I had had... hasn't had contacts... and so on. But now let’s talk about “Trust in Science!” and all other issues. So: A person who has been in contact with me, but who has a QR code - the green certificate - can continue to communicate with me as a cooperative and can continue to move around the city, go to the theatre, go to the supermarket, because - “Trust in science!” . The other thing. All right, let's assume I'm a relatively well-informed part of the public and I know myself how to find information on how I should be treated at home if I get worse; what regime I have to follow, what kind of medicine I have to do, what kind of medicine I have to drink or what I don't have to drink; whether I have to sleep in bed or walk - fresh air to breathe. What I have to do as a co-morbidist with a potentially very high risk of dying - I have not received such a protocol up to this day, even though I have had a cooperative test. And no co-positive patient has received such a protocol. Nobody! Send Message... to organise, send to the general public a text message with a protocol on how Covid-19 should be treated, pays nothing - neither four billion, nor 500 million, nor even thousands. This is to press the button on the operator. Only health professionals need to write this protocol, not look at some websites where something is written. No ome or aunt in Bauska sits on websites from morning to night. One part of people does not have a touch-sensitive phone. Text elements to send when people enter the territory of the Republic of Latvia... they receive a text message from the Ministry of the Interior within two seconds that they have arrived in Latvia and that they have to register... Either, with all those codes - whether they have a code or no code - which shows that it has nothing to do with health care and nothing to do with health safety. It only has to do with control, because if it had to do with health care, then all those entering the territory of the Republic of Latvia would come with an explanation of what to do, how to do and what to do. By the way, there is such a protocol. You can go... You don't have to drive on those long-haul luxury trips, the coalition of political tourism, go to Estonia, look at it. All Covid-19 patients are given such a protocol, as they have to take care of themselves in order to relieve the hospital and not to reach the “outlying” condition where mortality is high. Next, what are we doing? We have champions, we have reached half of the vaccination... There's something else. We vaccinated young people. I asked the management of the Hospital at the Clinical University of Children - a direct question: How many children in Latvia have died from the community? I got an answer - two years ago - that, thank God, no one. But the first... What are we doing -- kids now, young people... go vaccinate and so on, not pensioners and omes. What the New Unity does next... Of course, it is a great honor that Gobzems alone is now able to be responsible for all the failures of Kariņš, for the failures of the Prime Minister, who can be “Panorama” every night, and that all Latvian omees are now listening to Gobzem... The mouth is open and listens, "What Gobzem says they will do." It is a great honor, but - how it happens that for 18 years we have a Unity in power - for 18 years! - 10 years of serving as Prime Minister, more than 10 years now, more than 10 years of serving as Minister of Foreign Affairs, the same is true as the Minister of Finance, but we have a health care system down to the bank. Go to any police station, it's all down to the rock. It's the same for fire-fighters, right? Go to which sector you want, it's everywhere. Gobzem's guilty, huh? The new unity is never, Karin is never. How does it happen that we always have a Pavulut at the ministerial post when the greatest tragedies occur? When the Zolitude tragedy was, it was Pavilut. He couldn't take responsibility, right now, exactly the same thing. Always... as the greatest horrors occur in Latvia, so Pavļuts is the Minister. You don't see that? I see. Open the eyes of all the oves that have been rinsed out of the brain! It is the responsibility of Karina and New Unity, no one else is responsible. They stole 500 million so you couldn't treat it, so there wouldn't be where you're going... to those hospitals. The total number of beds has fallen by 150, as there are no places, nothing developed to have more beds. Illnesses are allowed. And that's the spirit. Can you unite that time?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U21	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U22	Thank you very much. Then let's talk to the end. And then you now say that the solution will be again – “Trust in science!” That everyone will now be forced... They'll be laid off, well, and then there'll be a solution. You know, the virus tends to have its own natural path. And you can incarcerated or not imprisoned, it's a man's natural path - everyone goes to a supermarket, buys a meal. All this is now overdue. When the virus ends in spring, they will say that they have a success story. Very many people will have died who simply have not been objectively cared for. In this context, I have one more interesting question. All right, criticism is one thing, but the other thing is what is the Head of State doing? The Head of State invites to come to help the health care system? Invites to adopt such rules so that Latvian society can help all who are in hospitals? No, no. I could do it now from the Saeima station. Dear Latvian society! All of them! - who are left without work, all who are angry on Karin, on Gobzem, all who are angry on the medical profession, all who believe in science and who do not believe in science, all provacs and all antivacs! Dear people! We have only one opportunity to get out of this crisis, that is, to unite and help. Each of us has the opportunity to devote a week hour, two or more, and to help strangers. Whether it's to wash the ambulance or to wash the floors, or to bring them, to bring the goods, whatever, to join each other and to help each other – the unknown people, Latvians and Russians. We will overcome the crisis, not by humiliating and accepting gifts of mercy from Swedes who supply us with equipment, even though we have a lot of money... We will not overcome the crisis, we will overcome the crisis if we unite, because we are a strong and proud nation, we can ourselves. We can violate our anger, our hurt, and our unification. I call on all the offices of the Ministry of Health and the management of all hospitals - to open the door to volunteers! Quick help, open the door to volunteers! I know that there are very many people in Latvia who are ready to go to help; today they are ready to go to help. My family will also help. No pump, no nothing. If you need it - Saturday, if you need it - Sunday. And that will be the way we can show the whole world - that the whole society of Latvia is falling in the hands, uniting, realizing that it is in the ass, I am sorry, and it is in this way dealing with this problem. Yes, dear society, we do not have a prime minister who is able to make such a speech, because he is not able to speak to anyone, it must be done by an opposition Member who may not like part of society because the media of the meinstrum have washed the brain. But anyone has to say that. I call on the volunteers to apply for themselves. I call on the bureaucracy to open - not to close the door, not to discriminate by humiliating, but to open the door - and to allow all those who have lost their jobs to get help from today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U23	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U24	Returning to the debate on the substance of the draft law, I wanted to thank Mr Rancán for having taken up the debate. Unfortunately, he must have felt so hotly that he did not understand my message. At least that... At least he did not answer my question and tried to attribute to me what I had not claimed. So I'm going to try again to explain what I'm about... I draw attention to this draft law. That is what I think is a very important nuance. First of all - what is stipulated in Article 16 of the Law on Medicine? This determines the patient's right to compensation for the damage suffered. What, though, are you doing with this draft law? You say in this bill that vaccine recipients will be entitled to this compensation only in the event of serious harm. That is, you discriminate against their right to compensation, as provided for by the Law on Treatment, if the damage to health is done in other cases. My question was: why do you propose such a regulation, a discriminatory regulation in this draft law, which may then lead to all these reactions that I have tried to explain. What you called demagogy. I tried to explain how you created this demagogy yourself. In fact, Mr Rancán, you have already demonstrated with your reaction how you are creating this wave of demagogy, as you are creating this wave of demagogy with your incompetent, unthinking and often irresponsible behaviour (in this case, I mean not you personally, but I can), that wave of demagogy. In this situation, you will rightly ask the question: why is the country not prepared to take on the same responsibility as it assumes for the damage caused by other medical procedures? Why? And then I'll ask you why the power hides contracts from us for these deliveries... from suppliers... for these vaccines? Why do we sign up to our full responsibility when we go to vaccination? All these questions together will create the rhetoric that I tell you about. You yourself do this... and this is one concrete example of how you torpedo the vaccination process and make it a failure. What I call on you to do is apply now in the debate and explain why in this draft law you are proposing such a discriminatory provision against the Covid-19 vaccinated, that they will only be entitled to compensation if they have suffered serious harm, although Article 16 of the Medical Law provides that anyone has the right to address any harm... and get this compensation, which you are now trying to limit with this bill. Come on, please and explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U25	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U26	Dear President, Colleagues! Especially Mr. Rancan! It is clearly shown in the figures that the situation in Latvia at present, especially in hospitals, is really dramatic. We can also understand the attitude expressed by our doctors not only towards the Minister of Health, but also the common state policy of the coalition, especially the Prime Minister, in the area of health. This is an assessment of the emergency situation and, in an emergency, the actions of doctors. That is why I would probably expect, Mr Rancan, from you (you have now assumed some responsibility, of course, as Head of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption) in the debate... Well, maybe also the Minister of Health is suddenly taking part in our meeting... expect answers to follow-up actions. First. What will be the next steps? Has your commission decided to play a more active role in driving this process and managing it more meaningfully? What could be the next steps after - probably - the adoption of this draft law? Perhaps this can be done until the second reading, if any. Secondly. To what and which experts - whether ex- or otherwise... possible also in relevant cooperation councils and meetings at present, including with colleagues and representatives of the Latvian Medical Association... What experts' recommendations have been taken into account in this Ordinance, which you will listen to and possibly incorporate into future amendments to this law? Thirdly. Is it measured and intended to have a positive meaning in terms of numbers, activities - not in cash, but numbers and activities - in the context of community management... including today's bill... impact of the decisions taken? This is quite important because knowing that our sittings are listening to different people, including doctors, including perhaps questionable people who have decided to vaccinate... which could be convinced that, at the moment, the government will act pragmatically to understand the difficult situation and already know the next steps because it has assessed the impact. I would like to say again that I support vaccination as a truly preventive action to reduce the disease, but at the same time this draft law is not about how to manage the current situation. That is why I very much hope, Mr. Ranzan, that... Perhaps it is also worth looking at our proposals in the budget package, where I have tabled a proposal on national social security (Sound break.) ... because, in my opinion, it would not be harmful if it were incorporated into this draft law as well, and perhaps it could also be a commission proposal, because in the process of developing draft laws, including at the meeting of the committee, such action should also be used that the commission makes its proposal in the context of a draft law, because I really appreciate as a positive step that adverse reactions can be compensated. The question is not how long the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers will be established and similar, the question could be who will assess what is difficult or not... but I will read our proposal, and perhaps Mr Rancan can already include it in this draft law, if it is legally possible, or when answering the question of impact or future actions, it could perhaps be said that it could be considered and supported in future actions. In particular, our proposal is to supplement the article of the law in question with the following wording: "A person is entitled to health insurance against side effects caused by Covid-19 vaccines. When assessing the application for compensation and the documents annexed thereto, the Health Inspectorate shall initiate an expert examination or take a decision on the refusal to consider the application for compensation 1268 in accordance with the procedure laid down.’ It may be that such action would also allow those people who fear the possible consequences and who may already have negative examples, not - based on positive examples and pragmatic decisions... Perhaps these people, hearing that the state is indeed taking on certain responsibilities and allowing this kind of insurance to be carried out in respect of the community... Perhaps it would also be a positive step for the country, and people who doubt will appreciate it and say it - yes, we will trust and do it. Indeed - I stress - at any time, the vaccination process is important and is welcome. However, at this point, when politicians, if I may say so, have avoided soap, then we should go out of soap and take concrete steps to show people that politicians are not only able to choose and take responsibility, but also know how to correct their mistakes. That would perhaps be the best message for people who are doubting, fearing or otherwise... what you've also told you a lot... people who are prepared to make a pragmatic decision about their health and also their responsibility for their decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U27	The debate is closed. Mr. Rancan, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U28	On behalf of the Commission, I thank my colleagues for the debate. As the rapporteur for the bill, however, I will allow myself to answer for what was said in the commission, and on behalf of the committee I will also explain once again that it is not Article 16 of the Law on Treatment, but Article 16 of the Law on Patients' Rights. That explanation from the Ministry of Health was that until now these vaccines have been considered as medicinal products and were not at any moment interpreted that this might apply to Article 16 of the Patient Law. It was so far. I understand Mr Zarina's concern that it is specifically stated here that - serious health problems or even human death... that it's written... Such words compared to the Patient Law, where it is stated that... It's so that about anyone, including moral... But it is precisely in this difference that it is also more regulated there. We can, of course, at some point try to talk about others, which can be a moderate complication... if you have come from vaccines, but I'm sorry, you should also assess proportionality here - or after each vaccine, if you have a temperature that is very short-term, you would really have to... such huge litigation and taking, running to the Medical Risk Fund and claiming compensation. In my opinion, it would not be quite reasonable if, for every temperature and every inconvenience, small pain in the shoulder would run to demand compensation from the state. We must be aware of the possibilities of solidarity. On behalf of the absolute majority of the Commission, however, I would like to call on the opposition to address its elite and call on them to vaccinate rather than send them narratives that we, you know, will be putting an obstacle in the Saeima to the vaccination process. ‘ You will all be voluntary, your rights, and you do not threaten anyone.” It is this narrative that you have sent to your constituents so far that it has created the current situation. You're taking responsibility for the position. I call for you to be aware of your responsibility, which is absolutely obvious in this case... at times. You have been the ones who have motivated people not to vacate by telling all of their own... trying to find legal objections, all possible objections. I would ask each of you to know how many people have left vaccination because of your position, are now ill and are in hospital. Thank you, colleagues. That would be all I wanted to say to me. I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U29	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management”! Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! For - 49, for - 9, for - 15. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading and the day of the Saeima sitting for the second, final reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U30	So the Commission agreed on a deadline of one hour for the submission of proposals. Review at second reading - next sitting of the Saeima after the committee meeting. That is the wording, most likely, of this sitting in the near future.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U31	Thank you. So the deadline for tabling the draft law for the second reading is today, October 28, at 17.23. Review - next Saeima sitting. Colleagues, it's been a break for some time. So let's take a break until 16:40. I recall - a break is shorter - until 16:40, when we will continue on the agenda. See you! Just registration. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U32	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour, Member Evita Zālīte-Grosa.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U33	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs has examined and supported the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance” prior to the first reading (No. 1213/Lp13). The draft law provides for the granting of sickness benefit from the first day of incapacity for work for persons who hold an interoperable certificate of vaccination or congestion or who have received an opinion on the need to postpone vaccination of a person against Covid-19, from 25 October 2021 until 31 December 2021, due to the issue of disability pages B related to Covid-19 illness. If a sick leave is issued because of an acute upper respiratory infection, the sick allowance shall be granted for the period between the first day of the sick leave and the third day of the sick leave and shall be paid for that period. If the person has been sent to carry out analyses of Covid-19 illness and the analyses will be positive, the sickness benefit will be granted for the period from the first day of incapacity for work until the person recovers his capacity for work; if the tests are negative, but the disability will continue, the sick leave issued should be concluded on the third day of incapacity for work and the sick leave A. The sickness benefit and the sickness benefit should be paid in general. The Commission is asking for urgency to be given to this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U34	So none of the Members has applied for urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” as urgent! Please, let's vote! For - 67, for - 1, for - 1. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U35	I call on the Commission to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U36	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U37	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, What is the purpose of the amendments to this law? There's nothing to do with combating the pandemic. The aim is political and the aim is to punish. In two sittings of the Saeima, I called for the renewal of payment of the disability page B to those who have suffered from Covid-19, because until 30 June this year, a page B was issued to workers in the case of a covid with the aim of reducing the illness so as not to cause any financial loss to the employee and not as an incentive for the sick to go to work. The disease is now much higher than it was in spring, in summer, when such regulation was in force. The coalition, in a broad consensus, rejected these proposals at both sittings of the Saeima. Well, right now, at least it turned out, now that we have three thousand positive communion cases a day. What, then, has been done now? The sick leaves will be paid from the first day, they will be state-paid B pages, but who will only be vaccinated! So if a worker is ill and has not been vaccinated, the sick sheet will have to be paid to the employer as it has until now. Thus, the employer is punished for not releasing the unvaccinated worker. Of course, the employer has additional expenditure on the sick leave, and if the morbidity rate is high, then, of course, the financial burden on the employer is also much higher. It's even an employer's blackmail - so get rid of the unvaccinated! The vaccine worker will also receive a higher amount of the sickness allowance, and this may be as a result of the repayment of this debt to the vaccinees for their promised free life. And yet, in the end, for fraud, because B leaves are paid on the first day, and also on the second and third days, the percentage is higher than A leaves. If you are talking about a three-day sickness sheet, if the worker has respiratory symptoms, so that you can stay at home, do not go to work, do not infect the others, but still make sure that you have not had a community, you have paid a page B for three days too. So right now: vaccinees - yes, unvaccinated - no. But what, then, is it tried to say that the unvaccinated person is perhaps less dangerous to society? Is there a link between the failure to issue sick leaves and the fight against a pandemic? What is the connection between the cost of the sick leaves for discrimination against the restriction of the spread of the virus? And what the next steps will be, because it is not in vain that pensions may not be paid to the unvaccinated. Or maybe the hour rate will be different - then the vaccinees are raised but not vaccinated as such as a slave? Consequently, I cannot support this kind of draft law. I will certainly make a proposal to put an end to discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U38	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U39	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U40	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance” at first reading! Please, let's vote! -69, against -5, refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U41	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be half an hour, consideration shall be given at the meeting on 4 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U42	Okay. Time limit for submission of proposals - up to how many?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U43	By 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-28-PT13-2312-U44	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is today at 17.20 a.m. on 28 October this year. Review - at the meeting of the Saeima on 4 November this year. Next, reports by the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Epidemiological Safety" presented by the Social and Labour Commission be referred to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Members have not applied. Consequently, Members shall be deemed not to have objected and the draft law shall be referred to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting has been examined. A question has been put to Members. Members Stepanenko, Možvillo, Petraviča, Švecova and Sprūde have submitted a question to Members “On violations in work of the Latvian Maritime Academy” that we submit to the Minister of Education and Science for reply. Registration of Members' presence. Registration is over. Thank you all for your work today. I'm closing the sitting.
