ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U1	Dear Members, Honourable Members! The agenda of the second extraordinary session of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 19 August 2021 has started to be discussed. On the agenda - reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to Criminal Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Mārtiņš Steins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U2	Hello, Madam President. Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Sitting viewers and listeners! Draft law amending the Criminal Law (No. (1141/Lp13) has been designed to increase responsibility for the unlawful transfer of a person across the national border. The draft law provides for the imposition of a more severe penalty for the unlawful transfer of a person across the state border - deprivation of liberty for a period of up to four years or temporary deprivation of liberty, or forced labour or a fine - thus establishing that the said crime is to be considered serious (according to the nature of the threat of public interest, according to the severity of the threat). Until now, unlawful transfer of a person across the state border has been punishable by deprivation of liberty for a period of up to two years or temporary deprivation of liberty, or by forced labour or by a fine. The amendment is encouraged due to the current situation on the Latvian-Belarusian border. According to the Ministry of the Interior, the purpose of the amendment is to prevent persons from being trafficked illegally across the state border. So even if one person is transferred, the penalty must be effective enough to deter such a crime... the commission of an offence. I invite you to refer the draft law to the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U3	Thank you. ‘ The speakers have not applied, but Members have requested a vote on the referral of the draft law to the Commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Criminal Law” to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 63, against - 1, refrains. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item on the agenda is the examination of draft laws. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U4	Good afternoon, Madam President. Colleagues and audiences and listeners of the sitting! Today, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption has examined a package of four draft laws aimed at improving the regulatory framework for faster installation of the state border. Draft Law “Amendments to the Law on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia” (No. 1138/Lp13) has been designed to ensure the necessary improvement of the conditions for the border guard system and to prevent the audit report of the State Audit Office “Are the state budget funds for the construction and maintenance of border line infrastructure of the Republic of Latvia legitimately used to achieve the stated objectives and results?” the deficiencies found. The draft law provides for clarification of the principles of the establishment of the national border band, as well as the introduction of new legal institutes – the “Patroling band” and the “Ticketing band”. It is, in particular, where natural obstacles (e.g. bog) cannot be identified along the border of the country along the external borders or are not identifiable (e.g. a lake). At the same time, the draft law provides for authorisation of the Cabinet of Ministers - to resolve several issues related to the state border. The Commission had a wide-ranging debate and many questions were asked to which officials from the Interior and other institutions responded. The time limits mentioned in the draft law regarding the drafting of the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers and their amendments were widely discussed, and the Ministry of the Interior provided clear answers that they are the maximum time limits and are already working on these documents, and certain documents are already ready and submitted to the conciliation process - for coordination between institutions. It was confirmed that, once the amendments to the rules had been prepared, they would be implemented without delay. Information was provided to the Commission on the processes related to the establishment of the border, the deadlines for the establishment of provisional solutions. It was informed that procurement was planned in August - it is about the purchase and installation of a barbed fence - in order to start the installation works in September. The Commission also had a prosecutor general, Mr Stukan, who responded and expressed the view that existing criminal proceedings could not hinder anything. Today, draft laws regulate the processes or arrange them so that the construction of the border can be organised better than before. Questions were also raised in the Commission on the readiness and capacity of all institutions to engage and responses were received on the existence of preparedness and capacity; additional resources will be mobilised in some cases; decisions on the funding arrangements have already been made in the government. There was no conceptual objection to the package of draft laws nor to the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. In order to start all the processes necessary for establishing the border as quickly as possible, the majority of the commission supported the urgency of the draft law and asked that the Saeima also support the urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U5	So we have to decide first of all that the draft law is urgent. Members have not applied for a debate on urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia”! Please vote mode! No, 58, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U6	Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U7	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U8	Hello, very respectable chair of the sitting! Dear colleagues, I will speak in general on all the draft laws that the Commission has prepared for us today at this sitting. And here I will address a little bit of the issue of substance... If we look at these four draft laws, we can see that they are very similar (I would even say identical!) draft laws where... similar rights were already granted in 2016. ... In 2015, 2016; it was for the Ministry of Defence... the implementation of urgent projects (in order to be able to be implemented better, faster and more effectively in substance). This is certainly in the public interest. And, in my view, these draft laws should be supported in general today, but of course they could not have been today, they could have been a year, two or even three years earlier, when the first problems were already identified, creating a border where some kind of action had already taken place. I... Looking at these border concepts... We also discussed in the political group... 2013 already had the first concepts, 2014... we know the whole situation in Crimea... And all that got completely different - completely different! - role, importance. And the issue of borders became a priority - a priority for every government. In every state budget - the annual state budget - it was a priority. And if we look at how this priority has been fulfilled at the moment - in my view, its priority has been very weak (absolutely regardless of who the minister has been - whether this one or the previous one); we see that the result is what it is. And it has come in 2021, and although it has been a national priority for several years (it has been a country-specific priority for the adoption of several budgets, a security priority!) , we see that the work has not been done. And now... Of course, the question after the adoption of the draft package of these laws... Today too, when the commission is sitting listening to what is happening... It is already clear that we cannot be fully convinced that this work will continue to be better done, and that it will continue to be more transparent. If we look at what is being offered... If we look at it, the Latvian-Belarusian border is generally 179 kilometres long... This year, at a time when these are very serious... number of refugees crossing the border... This is already very serious. These amounts, unfortunately, which we have expected to be very unprepared... It's already critical... This year, we have 20 kilometres planned, a total of 179 kilometres. The next year it is planned to be 60 kilometres, 40 kilometres in 2023; 2024, according to optimistic plans... It is planned that this construction could be completed. At the same time, it must be concluded with regret that several tens of kilometres of fences are unfortunately not used at the moment. That, in my opinion, would have been very effective if it were to be done. And, as several officials have already mentioned today, various processes have been initiated, where... power politicians are also blaming the State Audit Office, yet different institutions, why it has stopped... The Prosecutor General also admitted at the commission meeting that none of the processes initiated could serve as a reason why these works have stopped. And, in my view, too, this security challenge cannot be contained in the State Control Report. The challenge of security - it has always been, since 2014, in particular, and one State Audit Office report cannot stop... I think it is a great negligence on the part of officials that, over the years, no action has taken place at all; it is the most direct negligence on the part of officials. If some processes have begun, they have to go ahead, but the works also have to go on, in my eyes. And that is why I am calling for support in general for these draft laws. And I also call on the coalition representatives, the ministers responsible... Today, too, the Parliamentary Secretary was speaking... think very carefully about both these deadlines and the way in which it is planned to move forward, so that these issues of border management can be dealt with... arranged. We have also discussed with colleagues today in the political group the situation that is now in the district of Upper Daughdaugava, where people have, either, basic reflections on whether during the mushrooms... how safe it is to go to the forest at the moment; people are worried about it, and it's logical because everyone knows how the border is, so to speak, it's now and how easily it can be crossed. I do not believe that it is right that we are talking today about a staggering fence or some fence that is being built by such historical methods. As if modern people are being, we are talking today through computers; as if modern people are talking about new technologies, at the same time we are talking about modern technologies, such as... which would offer to catch up, for example, in the ground cable, which with the help of modern technology would fix, whether it is a bunny, wolf, bear, man or tank that crosses that moment at this point in time... We cannot, unfortunately, use the opportunities we have, because all these years, even the elementary land... the questions are not in order. There is absolutely no justification why this has not been done. Such elementary issues that have strained this situation today to the extent that we are in the situation we are in - that we... When we come to the X-hour, when some kind of migration of people across our borders begins, we wake up, so to say, at the bloody trough, we start to measure who will scare the cross. This, in my view, is absolutely unacceptable in a democratic society, but it is nevertheless happening. And this happens in Latvia now - people come across the border, it is practically impossible for border guards to deal with these people differently, extreme instruments are applied. I think it's... It's a big responsibility... It is both the failure of this government over the years and the insufficient efforts of the previous government to address this issue in substance, so that construction works can be carried out more quickly... As an example of what I mentioned at the outset: the same legislative package was adopted in the field of defence already four or five years ago, and such construction work was carried out much more quickly there, and strategically important objects were indeed implemented. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for serious consideration of the issue of deadlines, and I call for support for all these draft laws as a whole. And I call on you to approach the issues of work organisation in a responsible manner so that these issues can be put right as soon as possible. Thank you, and I call for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U9	We are continuing the debate. The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U10	Hello, colleagues! Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Hello, listeners, viewers! This situation, which has arisen at the border, has not arisen either yesterday or last night. It's been wearing for a very long time, and now, as I came to the Saeima, it seems from the edge that we learned yesterday in lunch that we have a border with Belarus. Why is that? Because the border with Russia has not yet been fully resolved. This limit has still not been put into service. Resources are provided... For years, there have been means to sort out the entire border... linked to the external borders, both with Belarus and with Russia. We read the reports of the State Audit Office about the fact that, either, not all processes have been carried out in a transparent way, not all processes have happened fairly. The money allocated was not spent on whom it was intended. In short, you could write a book with various facts about how and what you should not do with the national border. Now... In the Commission, too, we talked about this: finally, we have to put together the football between the institutions when one does not know what the other is doing. Institutions live in their parallel worlds without even talking. Border guards expect something to happen on the border, while in the Ministry they think about something else. Well, probably the border is far away, Riga - far, you can say, all the problems that are on the border do not even come to Riga. Or, if it happens, you don't want to understand. Yes, these are just a few of the laws that should be changed so that we can finally sort out both the borders and the objects that are important to the country and which should be given greater attention. There is no such situation - what the borders are at present. That's where I'd like to fix my colleague Viktor Valaini. The Latvian-Belarusian border is 172.9 kilometres long, and the biggest problem right now is that this border is technically little equipped or even impossible equipped. There are places where the limit by width, well, does not exceed 10 meters... Total... between forest strips. Today we have heard confirmation that the state-owned forests managed by the “State Forests of Latvia” have been measured, have been entered in the Land Register. However, many properties in the border area are still not recorded in the Land Register. They have an unclear membership. Consequently, in this case, the country must act very strongly, strictly and quickly so that this border area can be properly recorded in the Land Register and properly arranged. And I also called on you not to wear any length with various regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which would speed up the construction of the border. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support these draft laws and move them forward and to accept them, because we really can no longer delay the construction of the border. I also call on the State Audit Office to use more actively the powers given to it to address officials or officials... where perhaps even the criminal handling of public funds, failure to comply with obligations can be seen. We look forward to real action from the State Audit Office, and specifically from Mr Irkle, which is provided for in the State Audit Law, including through appropriate sanctions, which this institution can do. I also call on Mr Stuwan to address this issue more seriously and to follow all measures. Yes, this exceptional situation obliges public authorities to carry out fast-track procurement and here there must be full clarity, full information that these procurements take place on a transparent, fair and economically advantageous basis. I therefore call once again on my colleagues to support these laws... draft laws to achieve faster border management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U11	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U12	Good afternoon, everybody! There are a number of important things in this beginning around the border of Belarus that I would like to draw attention to. That is partly what colleagues have already spoken about before me, but I believe, unfortunately, once again, that this is one obvious example of the ubiquitousness, senselessness and incompetentness of this power, namely that we are being offered today in a great hurry... Something is dropped in front of... the draft law to be voted on. I will not even repeat here what it shows about Latvia as a democratic state and a state governed by law. I would just like to point out that all of the things that we now urgently have... Today, in one day, you have to get out and vote, the Ministry of the Interior was known last year. Last year, January 2020, the State Audit Office submitted its report, which pointed to all these cases. In the meantime, the Ministry of the Interior has done nothing. Even more - it has specifically delayed all of this. The State Audit Office has also pointed out in its report that for several years without objective reasons the Ministry of the Interior has delayed the construction of this border in relation to all land acquisitions and so on. We know what happened next... Right next to the border with Russia, as far away as... how it all was managed and where the money went. Here, too, the State Audit Office indicated that the money that was intended to set up the Belarus border goes somewhere else. And nothing was done. It is a very visible example of how this power, which is trapped in its permissiveness and total disregard, is acted upon, they are only interested in schemes, schemes, schemes, schemes... and, when there is a scheme, then proceed. Now it's fast to get out of the Saeima, because the Saeima is naive, blind, they think we're making a law here, everything's going to be okay. Nothing's gonna be fine! Because if you should... If someone really wanted to put it in order, it could have been done for a long time without these changes to the law. And these amendments to the law, if we do not, in parallel, introduce further amendments that are more stringent - to follow all this... Either we're likely to get back to where we are or we're just going to get to this kind of large-scale waste. What we see, what this power is capable of - creating an emergency situation, creating special conditions, which are itself specifically dimmed, and then bearing it successfully managing sums of money, unduly squandering them... which, of course, once again this Saeima to the blind, will vote quickly, obediently and accept everything. Colleagues, I call for a responsible approach to this. And really, I also call on the law enforcement authorities to join and follow this whole process. Firstly, we need to find out, in parallel, why this border has not been built, well, what we have there - idiots, fools, who don't understand? I remember the beautiful speeches that we spoke in the previous sitting about the fact that it is clear that Latvia is in hybrid war. Well, if it's clear to you, where have you acted? Or, actually, then you... Who are you? Everyone... Cream agents? Then I would call on the safety authorities to be clear about this situation - as has happened - so as to avoid anything like that in the future. I would also call for a responsible approach to these draft laws. As they are at present - they will not ensure the objectives that are necessary, they will simply allow for further chaffing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U13	Thank you. The debate is closed. Mr. Stein, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U14	Thank you for your views and recommendations, and they have also been made available to the Commission. They'll be... They will be taken into account by the responsible officials and will be considered by the institutions, including on the part of the Ministry of the Interior, that active work is also taking place in the border board and will therefore take place there. I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U15	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia”! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading and the day of the Saeima sitting for the second, final reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U16	The Commission unanimously decided to encourage the Saeima, in the absence of objections, to support the draft law at second reading, without a deadline for the submission of proposals and without a review by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U17	Thus, Members have the possibility, if there are any objections, to apply in the section on the procedure. Nobody's signed up. The Saeima therefore supports that we are looking... Mr. Zarins! Mr. Zarins, are you opposed to examining the draft law at this sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U18	Yeah, I'm against it because... and I call for a deadline for the submission of proposals, and then those objections that we have just heard beautifully that they have been dealt with in the Commission... there have been objections, proposals, how should someone look... then also call on the Commission to prepare these proposals and to put them to the vote. Otherwise, it is all the hypocrisy that is now being said - that the commission is competent to get to know, has heard the objections and knows how it...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U19	Mr Zarins, thank you, we understood that you have reservations. So we cannot look at the second reading at this sitting. Please, Mr Stein, set, on behalf of the Commission, a deadline for the submission of proposals and a date for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima in the second, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U20	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 15 minutes, and consideration - 19 August of the Saeima extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U21	So the deadline for tabling proposals is 12.53 today, and the debate is at the extraordinary session of the Saeima on 19 August. Thank you. The next item is the draft law on Forest Law, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U22	Hello, honourable chair and colleagues! ‘ Amendment to the Forest Law” is one of the draft laws of the package to ensure effective felling of trees by setting up and maintaining the state border band, patrol bar and surveillance bar for border marks. The draft law provides that the Ministry of the Interior may transfer the right of felling of trees and ownership of felled trees in the state border band, patrol bar and border sign monitoring band to the state public limited liability company “Latvian State Forests”. In the Commission, the draft law was supported and also called for urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U23	Consequently, Members have not applied for urgency or urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Forest Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! No, 58, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U24	Please consider at first reading and support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U25	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U26	Colleagues! There is another important aspect here, talking about this whole border story, which I think most, if not all, know from experience - as has been the case with the eastern border, namely forest resource management, so tree felling and everything else. It is also one of the aspects pointed out by the State Audit Office if you are familiar with this report. I assume that you have a responsibility to approach this sitting and you really really care about the fate of our border, and that, at last, there really would be order. Then you know that the State Audit Office also pointed out this problem in its report – that there was no clear regulation, how the entire deforestation of this resource and further management and implementation of this resource take place. There is no such thing in this bill either. It is simply written that they will be “the forests of the state of Latvia”. I would like to ask the rapporteur or one of the members of the Commission to apply and tell you how it is meant that, in this case, we will avoid the problems that we have had with all these border works when all this was done with the border between Latvia and Russia. So that this does not happen again, so that we do indeed effectively, meaningfully all of the works are done with maximum, of course, resource efficiency, using these resources in the best interests of the state. I would ask my colleagues to tell you... commissions - how is this supposed to happen now? Or at least the rapporteur should report on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U27	I closed the debate. Mr. Stein, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U28	On behalf of the Commission, as I also mentioned earlier, to the previous draft law - the Commission also had the Prosecutor General and it was said that there were so... criminal proceedings are taking place and do not interfere with existing work. The responsible authorities are also continuing to work and all recommendations are already in place. The above-mentioned legislative package on monitoring and involvement of the State Building Control Office has also taken into account a number of proposals, including the recommendations made in the previous debate, a large part of which is not regulated by the law, but are present in the activities that are being implemented. And, as has already been said in the Commission by all the parties involved, they will be taken into account, including deadlines. Work is already under way to ensure that everything takes place as quickly as possible and in compliance with the laws and regulations. I call on the Commission to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U29	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Forest Law. Please vote mode! No, 58, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading and the day of the Saeima sitting for the second, final reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U30	So the committee unanimously decided to encourage the Saeima to also draft this law - so that the processes necessary for establishing the border could be started as quickly as possible - in the absence of objections, to support at second reading without a deadline for the submission of proposals and without consideration by the committee.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U31	So... Members may, if they object, apply to the section on the procedure. Not applied. Mr. Zarins, please! Your name.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U32	Yes, I do. I request a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U33	Thank you. It is therefore necessary to set a time limit for the submission of proposals. Mr. Stein... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U34	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 15 minutes, and consideration - 19 August of the Saeima extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U35	No further proposals have been received for the deadline for the submission of proposals. So the deadline for tabling proposals - at 13.00 today, August 19, and consideration at the extraordinary session of the Saeima - August 19 this year. The next item is the draft law on the amendment to the law on the expropriation of public property, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U36	Welcome again. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Expropriation of Property of a Public Person” (No. The aim of 1139/Lp13 is to ensure effective action by disposal of timber obtained in the state border zone, the patrol bar and the border mark monitoring bar in situations where the Ministry of the Interior has transferred the right to felling and property rights to the state public limited liability company “Latvian State Forests”, as well as in situations where the right is exercised by the Ministry of the Interior. The draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Person’s Property” provides that the provisions of the Law on the Expropriation of Public Person’s Property shall not apply to the said timber. In the Commission, this draft law was supported, and urgency was also supported. I ask the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U37	So, first of all, we must vote in favour of declaring the draft law urgent. No one has applied to talk about or against. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Property” as urgent! Please vote mode! No, 59, against and refrains. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U38	Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U39	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U40	Objection. I request a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U41	We're still debating... at first reading... The floor will be discussed by Mr Jonis Dombravs.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U42	Colleagues! Last week we discussed a lot about the fact that a hybrid war is actually taking place in Belarus, on Russia's side, against Latvia. And in fact, it is important for us today to adopt a number of laws so that we can quickly build the border. On the other hand, we see a very passionate speech from Member Ivars Zarina, who is in the group of Members to facilitate cooperation with the Belarusian Parliament. It is not very clear to me what Mr. Zarins's goal is in this whole story. I understand that when you cannot speak in favour of Russia, you can always start to protest and use different pseudo-arguments in this debate. However, I think that we, all parties (I hope your party also), are interested in the security of Latvia's borders and, even if there have been problems in the past, in solving its problems as soon as possible. I really call for very fast progress to be made with the adoption of this draft law, not to attempt to artificially delay this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U43	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U44	I thank Mr Dombrava for the concerns he expressed here. I'm gonna have to upset him. You can not seek your allies, you as the Kremlin Party, as the Kremlin's interest agents here, who are interested in breaking up the nation and looking for inner enemies! You will not succeed this time! On the contrary, you will have the opportunity to demonstrate that you really care about the fate of the border of Latvia. Because what I do at the same time - I am making proposals - is the proposals that you, as the ruling coalition, have long had to prepare and submit in this law. It has been a long time ago, many years ago, to put an end to this irresponsibleness and waste on the borders of Latvia, with which you have worked all this time. If you really had cared about what you are talking about here - to put the order here as soon as possible - you would have done it a long time ago. You are doing this only now, when the water is falling into your mouth, and only after Zarins in the previous sitting told you that it is urgent to do so and that we have a great deal of soap at risk, - he pointed out what is happening in Afghanistan in that region... and that immediately there will be just a wave, a wave of storm, coming. Only now have you started doing this. If you had really taken care of it, you would have done it a long time ago. Now you will have the opportunity with your votes today to demonstrate whether you really care about it. Maybe in fact, you just create a new factory, how, when you make a hysteria for Latvian society, they cover up to learn a pointless lot of money. We can all be sure of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U45	The debate is closed. Mr. Stein, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U46	On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U47	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Property”! Please, voting mode! There's no one for - 60, against and abstaining. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading and the day of the Saeima sitting for the second, final reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U48	The Commission unanimously decided to encourage the Saeima, in the absence of objections, to support the draft law at second reading without a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U49	Member Zarins has already objected to the debate, so we must take these reservations from one Member into account. Mr. Zarins has also applied for this. So... There was this application. Please, Mr. Zarins! You're against it. Or something else... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U50	I confirm, I simply confirm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U51	So we cannot look at this sitting of the Saeima. Mr. Stein, what's the commission's proposal?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U52	The Commission urges that the deadline for the submission of proposals - 15 minutes, consideration - is an extraordinary meeting of the Saeima on 19 August.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U53	No other proposals have been received here at the Bureau. So the deadline for tabling proposals for the second reading of the draft law is at 13.08 a.m., the deadline is at the extraordinary session on 19 August. Finally, on the agenda of the sitting, the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Construction Law". Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U54	Draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law” (No. 1140/Lp13). The draft law has been drafted with the aim of effectiveizing the process of coordination of construction documents necessary for the construction of construction works in the state border band, patrol bar and border sign monitoring bar, providing that regarding the said construction works the functions of the construction board shall be carried out by the Office of State Control of Construction. In the construction projects initiated so far, control of the construction justice will be carried out by the construction board of the respective municipality. The Commission of these draft laws also supported and invited the Saeima to determine its urgency and... decide on urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U55	The vote must therefore be taken first of all on the urgent nature of the draft law. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! There's no one for - 60, against and abstaining. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U56	Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U57	The Members in the debate have not applied. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law”! Please vote mode! No, 55, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading and the day of the Saeima sitting for the second, final reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U58	The Commission unanimously decided to encourage the Saeima, in the absence of objections, to support the draft law at second reading without examination by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2292-U59	If Members object, they may apply electronically... Members have not applied. We can therefore consider this draft law at second reading at this parliamentary sitting. Please, call! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law”! Please vote mode! No, 58, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Dear Members and honourable Members, Consequently, we have reviewed the agenda of the second extraordinary session of the Saeima on 19 August 2021. Only registration of participants. It's been a success. I would remind you that, at this parliamentary sitting, we have decided that a further extraordinary part-session should be held today in order to discuss at second, final, reading draft laws that we did not discuss at this parliamentary sitting. So please follow the reports from the Saeima Presidium. The Bureau will convene this meeting as soon as the commission responsible has completed the work on the proposals submitted and has examined these draft laws. The agenda for the second remote session of the extraordinary session of 19 August has therefore been examined. I'm closing the sitting. See you!
