ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U1	Honourable Members! 36 Members of the Saeima have asked to announce today, on 20 May, a remote emergency sitting with a agenda – a draft decision on the process for men in the 2021 World Championship hockey with viewers on the spot. The Bureau has convened this meeting. So the review of own-initiative proposals on the agenda is a draft decision on the process of men in the 2021 World Championship hockey with viewers on the spot. Mr. Feldman, will you speak on behalf of the applicants?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U2	I probably did not, I wanted to speak in the debate, yes, but I can speak on behalf of the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U3	No, no. The question is, will you speak on behalf of the rapporteurs, can you speak? Have you been delegated on behalf of the speakers?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U4	All right, I'll be speaking on behalf of the applicants.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U5	So on behalf of the applicants, Member Gatis Eglitis. I am sorry, on behalf of the applicants, to Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U6	Hello, dear colleagues! I am glad that it is finally an opportunity for you to address the Saeima sitting today. We had to overcome some administrative obstacles in order to reach this opportunity. In this case... On the eve of the world's Hockey Hockey Championship - which begins tomorrow in Riga - we have the opportunity to take a symbolic step, which, however, is such... could send the right signal to the public that power, decision-making power, works that democratic process in Latvia works, that members of the Saeima very actively follow events, current events in society and are able to make informed decisions in different situations as well. This story and these bodies, which may have had to be made to get us to this sitting this day, demonstrate the importance of the democratic process. In this case, any decision, dear colleagues, which you will take on this draft decision, which, I remind you, is about commissioning the Cabinet of Ministers to immediately develop the arrangements for attending the 2021 World Hockey Championship for men or persons who are suffering from Covid-19... In this case, any decision that the Saeima will take - whether positive or negative - is a good decision because it has been taken in an unhindered, unhindered democratic process. We have had very different experience in the Saeima in response to the decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers regarding various regulations, restrictions, also penalties and all other regulations related to control of infection. There have been decisions by the Saeima that may have been delayed by the government. I hope that this (if it is voted positively) will not be one of them, because the Saeima will have unequivocally expressed its subjective attitude to the issue in question. There have also been other situations in the Saeima. There have been situations in the family where similar issues are dealt with not by draft decisions but by draft laws or, for example, by presenting a legislative proposal, as in the case of catering terraces. In that case, of course, the procedure was different and the outcome was slightly different, because the law is the law. In this case, I am very pleased that Members of the Saeima - from the position, by the way, and from the opposition - are actively participating in the current events... Thus, in discussions about current events, submit proposals, draft decisions, support convocation of sittings, because this means that the decision-making power really works as one of such independent branches of power defined in the Constitution in Latvia. The decision-making power in this way can also show the direction of the executive power in which it would be necessary to go now, because when meeting with people outside the Saeima in different regions, members of the Saeima feel very good about the mood of society. For that... The fact that the Saeima sometimes needs to indicate to the executive the direction in which it has to go, that it should not sit on its hands, that it does not have to pull its legs, but that it must work sustainably in the direction of restrictions, because we cannot predict the end of the pandemic - that is nothing bad or unusual. With this in Latvia, I think we should be proud that we have exactly that opportunity and we have a wonderful democratic system working for us. And these are not accidents: they are conscious decisions of the decision-making power. In this case, if the Saeima will support this draft decision, the Cabinet of Ministers will be expected not to to tow, not to sit on hand, but to solve the specific situation regarding the world hockey championship, including by determining what are the restrictions that must be observed, what are the requirements that people have to comply with, and then they can go and watch the championship on the spot. I'm not going to be one of them, by the way. And in general, regardless of what the decision will be, I will be grateful for the fact that we have managed to adopt it today. I'm saying that... Thank you, too, to all those who have signed several times for convocation of extraordinary sittings and everything else. The last point I wanted to make when I finish my previous idea: this is just one thing that the government has to think about. We also need to think about many other things, such as cultural events and other developments, where the same sustainable approach is needed and the same sustainable constraints that can be achieved in the long term. Thank you for your attention. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U7	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U8	Dear colleagues, This day and these events are beginning to remind us a little of the spring forest, where the rubies are fighting. Very many loud phrases, very high activity. I would like to remind you that we have only two more interesting Thursdays on which the rubles will take, and then there will be silence. Then there will be no more saying that the Saeima has the highest decision-making power, and that the Cabinet is pulling its feet or sitting on your hands - you will not hear it. Why? Well, of course, date 5. We are all waiting for the 5th date, and the 5th date probably also awaits those who now speak out loud phrases. But I will remind you that we are concerned about the possibility for the Saeima to decide for itself on these restrictions, which are still in a pseudo emergency situation. On these proposals, Krišjānis Feldmans voted against the Cabinet of Ministers for its exclusive powers, which the Saeima itself has given it. Krišjānis Feldmans voted in favour of granting these powers to the Cabinet of Ministers, and Krišjānis Feldmans voted in favour of the Cabinet of Ministers retaining these powers without any doubt. And now we hear that Krišjānis Feldmans is disappointed at the work of the Cabinet of Ministers and wants to punish, and wants to prove to the Cabinet that the Saeima can still decide itself. When we said three times that the Saeima has the highest decision-making power, that we should not restrict that we should not give the Cabinet the right to impose various duties, impose restrictions, impose prohibitions... If it is necessary, the Saeima itself can do it under its own responsibility, also under the responsibility of Krišjānis Feldman... then there was a vote - no! A quiet and shy vote - no! But when the fifth day comes on top of us, and when we want to show how powerful we are, there is, of course, a lot of interesting words about the fact that the Saeima can still decide itself and the Cabinet does something wrong. Colleagues, so much for hypocrisy. But if we were talking about the draft decision itself, it was really very curious to see who will speak to us today, what will be the speeches, and what will be the debate with each other. We have already heard Mr Duritis, it may be that we will hear someone yet, but I am not the people on the side of those who want to ban this draft decision, who want to vote against this draft decision because they have the option: we must all be afraid of the infection, we must not move on to the right or left, we must all sit at home, wash our hands, pull our masks at home and wait for the summer. I do not belong to those people who, for fear or for the purpose of voting against this draft decision today, are now the final reading. I belong to those people who are against segregation, who are against the division of services - we are now giving it to the vaccinated, and unvaccinated we are simply showing it to the exit. I am against this attitude. This draft decision at final reading will strengthen this attitude at the level of the Saeima. If the Cabinet of Ministers has nothing yet to do with different possibilities for vaccinated against still unvaccinated restrictions, then Saeima, which consists of 100 representatives of the people (the composition of the Cabinet of Ministers cannot be understood - from whom)... the Saeima is represented by 100 representatives of the people. And if the representatives of 100 people state that they agree that, with this day at the Saeima House, we are deciding on the introduction of segregation already in practice at the legislative level, then I belong to those people who will say no. If we are talking about the fact that we should exempt people from restrictions, then I am in favour of us releasing absolutely all people from restrictions. If we still need to protect ourselves, then we need to determine even the same two-metre distance, to thin it down the hockey hall so that people sit away from each other and watch the hockey game in person without showing either ears or bottoms or any other place at the entrance without showing any evidence from doctors, showing no tests or showing anything. It is a humiliating measure of human dignity that you have now imagined. In no case should we oblige a person to show his or her medical history, all medical data. We must not put it into practice. Yes, I understand that maybe this game is interesting to someone - now we will separate people, we will ask for green certificates, we will send stars on the clothes of those who are unvaccinated. But you can't do that. Those fellow Members, those who may now be waiting for their decision at the Saeima, will be voting, will be thinking yet to vote in favour or against - please think that, on the one hand, this decision may seem very nice - we will now give a piece of freedom to those people who are waiting very much for it. We will now give those pieces of freedom to those who deserve it. She's earned. Those who have left, vaccinated or become ill. That is not right. In this way, you ensure segregation. It's not a story about freedom, it's a story about something completely different. Please do not take part in this story. I will vote 'no' and I also call on other colleagues to vote 'no'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U9	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U10	Good evening, colleagues! Good evening, Latvian society! I am currently on the coast of the Amber Sea and I would like to say that the people who live on the Dzintar Sea and who have breathed fresh air are a healthy, strong nation. And this nation really does not need any vaccination. We can see that everyone is healthy and healthy, lives, works, rejoices and the like. And now what is the BIP doing? The JTPP suggests that there is a need for segregation. We need to start sharing people with those who fear everything - and people have the right, of course - to share them in some particular group. Or those people who have been... who have had the opportunity to go out of the line, because, for example, Mr Kola or Mr Ples, or Mr Pavulut, go out and flick up... These are some kind of more special people. All the others to whom the vaccines have not been supplied, but who perhaps would like to be vaccinated - they are not. These are some second class people. Even though, in fact, what I want to say... I would like to say that in a healthy society, vaccination is not first and foremost imposed. This is a voluntary process. A healthy and healthy society does not fear to die every day. And what's very interesting. Not only in Latvia, but if we look at this global trend, then fear of death... What does it mean? They usually say, well, look at this simply - they are expressed by governments supported by a globalist, governments dependent on the International Monetary Fund, which borrows... as well as Latvia borrowings all the time. We're now living on busy money. And, in principle, British colonies. Those who are outside, those who are independent states... Well, let's see, Sweden is an independent country. Are those who are not in this area of influence... Eastern border where Bob Hartley just won Gagarin's cup... without mask and full triples. In them the virus somehow knows its boundaries. Most of the society is absolutely clear - absolutely clear! - That it's an afer. You can enter any pepperboard, any store, hairdresser, sports coach, or wherever - you all people will tell you it's an afer. The whole society will say that. I don't think we can make a voice now from the Saeima Tribute while on the coast of the sea... I'm scared... All the remote sittings, all the pretending - pretending that we, speaking in the cameras, put those infuses and the like. And now let's share people again in some hockey hall. Well, let people rejoice, enjoy summer, spring! It's a beautiful time out. Go fanot on the many beautiful losses of Latvian sample and some beautiful victories. I hope that sometime this will change. So when we're all going to start thinking like a winning society. When we throw down all this power that supports the whole globalist plan. Vaccination against influenza will not save our life. Our life will be saved by the fact that we will live healthy lives, that we will enjoy life, that we will rejoice that we will go out to the barn in the evening and drink a little bit, let's talk to friends, meet, turn around, let's be happy about every single glob, we will cry for the lost gates, that we will have emotions as people, not as robots, that we don't die! We can die every day! There's something on my head every hour, and now I can die. I can be afraid. By the way, statistically more chance for me to die is out of the lightning blow than out of it dangerous... Well, maybe we're freeing our society! And, dear society, omees, who watch “Panorama” and those broadcasts that praise Kariņš, especially those omees that listen to “Latvian Radio”, where only all the time - how good and similar Kariņš is... Omes, open your eyes once! Let your children and grandchildren live a normal, dignified life! Come on, Omes, you're fuckin' brains. You don't see that? I understand that there is a great habit of listening to it all at all times and that it is now... Yes, it happens in the life that dies, but look at the statistics, compare them over the last ten years. Compare, do we have thousands more dead than in other years? No, no! For the past ten years, maybe. Take the last hundred years. Well, the biggest pandemic. Yeah, well, well! Let it live its life! The healthier we treat it, the faster the virus goes. The more we fear, the longer this will be. Always figure out some restrictions, something. And so the division with it started when the Jews were told to go... from the beginning could not pass the trotula or could not sit on a bench. It all starts with stuff. This is because a person who is vaccinated or not vaccinated can or cannot enter the hockey hall. My friends have people who believe in vaccination, and my friends have people who do not believe in vaccination. What am I supposed to do now? What do I do to those people who have children going out of spring, just as ice has gone out, swim? They do not know the word “vaccine”! For them, the vaccine has the water in which they swim to the late autumn. They live healthy lives like that. There are people who just think that this is the only way. Imagine that madness: people are vaccinating not because they want to survive, but because they want to travel or go to a restaurant. You've ever seen something even more absurd that a man is doing medical manipulation so... not so that he could save his health, but simply so that he could go to Rome (to look at Colisea) or to the Maldives? Which one, now, has that money... The money is the most common for those who have stolen all of this in power at the moment. All of this is not maintained for your health. Look at the psychological state of children, look at the psychosocial state of society as a whole. To children's education. Yes, vaccination of children will now be the biggest problem. Look at statistics -- kids don't die of this shit, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U11	I call for expressions to be chosen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U12	It's a real Latvian name!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U13	Do not forget that this is the Saeima sitting. Continue the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U14	Mrs. Mūrniece, this is a real Latvian name, and it is not even a rude word. You can look at the Latvian vocabulary. One more thing. We're in those remote sittings now... I will soon finish my monologist, and I feel that I have succeeded in this at the very end, when Mrs Mūrniece stopped me on the use of Latvian. You, the National Union, also here you vote against all that allows hockey...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U15	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U16	President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, As regards this prepared draft decision, it is not possible to join previous colleagues from the opposition, who criticised certain sections of the draft decision. And we, too, in our own... I would like to mention that there is a problem with this draft decision, because only those who have been vaccinated are also wrong in our view. It must also be possible for the people who have received the tests to show that they have not become sick and are safe to the public - they must be able to do so. Otherwise, this is indeed an excessive discrimination. That shouldn't be the case. But, on the whole, I have one question on this draft decision: why do we have to deal with this issue today evening? Do you really... Is that so? I think every real hockey fan, every person in Latvia, who is also not a hockey fan, knows that each year the hockey championship takes place in May. And all the more, I think people know that this year's hockey championship takes place in Riga. In these circumstances, we have come to a similar situation, in my opinion, as with the community vaccines, when everyone knows that vaccination will have to be carried out, but when vaccines come, they do not really know what to do, how to order and so on. Here, too, everyone knows that there will be a championship, different solutions will need to be considered. But in this case, I would like to say that it is the government that has not done its homework. We talked to the organizers of the event yesterday, with the leadership of the Latvian Hockey Federation, and they made clear all the scenarios by which they can safely, in consultation with the epidemiologists, hold the event. To the most detailed details, everything is figured out in what way arena Riga... For example, there are 10,000 people... the place. There were precise figures mentioned, two thousand, in my opinion, which they can provide by keeping line gaps, two meters on the one hand and two meters on the other, individual sectors. All this is possible. Also in the “Elektroum” centre you can do this where these games will take place. The question arises: why are we currently debating this at the Saeima? It's normal... It would be right to discuss matters with industry in the government. The whole world will watch tomorrow as Latvia organises this championship. The whole world is also watching other sporting events taking place in the world. The whole of Europe is watching Eurovision, where we can see that people have found a solution in Rotterdam to put thousands of people together... shoulder to shoulder and hold the event. The whole world sees there... Well, give the impression that there has been some way of living with the disease. For us in Latvia, if the government acts the way they act at the moment, then the situation arises that, now... Looking at someone in Canada, the United States or Russia, wherever this hockey game is, we'll see a beautiful ice place that... How do you do it? This is what we will all see tomorrow, how we can make this icefield. You'll see only the bare ground. Colleagues, this is, in my opinion, a question of the country's prestige. Of course, these health risks need to be assessed, a safe way to organise this championship must be found. I wouldn't talk today, I'd believe the government... that the government is doing the right thing if I do not see that all other neighbours are doing it closer to us and beyond. And they do it in all sorts of ways. Whether they are small groups or 10,000 in the arena, they can be a hundred, two hundred people, but they still have an atmosphere. I mean, those who follow sport... I followed, and I see how it happens, how football, hockey, basketball, tennis, how in various countries of the world (where these morbidity rates are even higher than for us) are, however, found how it can be ensured. Now, when the world championship in hockey is finally held in Latvia after a long time, when all the societies, the whole world will focus on us, we will show you bare ice. We'll show you there's quarantine here, people don't go here, everything is isolated, everyone lives in bubbles. Everything that happens in Latvia is just a bubble - it will be a flat ice, where it is playing hockey, and of course, no ambient emotions that are connected around the sport: the circle of viewers, joy. There won't be any such thing. It will be digital, virtual, from which the world is already... they're all tired of all this. In my view, this is the work that the government has not done, all the more - according to the Latvian Hockey Federation, from what the organiser of the event himself said, we understood clearly that these guidelines were also spoken to the Ministry of Health, that appropriate epidemiologists were told that they can do so, and we ourselves see that others are doing so. If there are any risks, we put more of these guidelines in place so that, if necessary, we do not allow the sale of beer, no matter what, but we find a way in which people can do so. This is not just about hockey. Other measures are also taking place. The U19 Championship in Latvia will be held immediately in basketball. And it will also happen without viewers. In my opinion, other sporting events, as well as cultural events, must also look at a way... We can't always live like that in a box. Indeed, I repeat, it is very bad that the government has done everything we can to have a debate on this today evening. There are bad things, and the bad thing number one is that there is a responsible area - and it is an education area... And here we have to throw a stone into the BIP garden that you have not done it at government level. But what is interesting is that it has created the conditions that there are issues (and sport is the case) that can unite ideological opponents such as the Greens/Farmers Union and the New Conservative Party. We can do something together. That is the positive thing I see here, and maybe there will be more positive things in the future, where we can do something together. But today I call on the government to give this task. I call on the government to improve and really watch with experts in the field, with specialists in various fields, how we can find a way, however, to do this safely, how this event can be visited, and also to create an impression of Latvia as a place where modern people live, who are able to find a way to live with this pandemic and not just put it in a solid box. After such an ideology, we can't go to the forest either, because there are ticks in the forest... The tick can get, and everything can happen. There are options, there are tests, there are vaccinations, there are various restrictions, distances and so on. What we have heard from an official of the Ministry of Health today - and here I am talking about the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Health, Mr Duriša - turns out to be something that we cannot do, because today we are awakened and, by interviewing the operators involved in carrying out the tests, they do not have the capacity to carry out the tests at the moment. Today, they come up with a question like this. Colleagues, this shows how we... Well, I don't even know how that government works at all, how you... The question comes, and then you think about how to deal with it. Well, it's not normal! Didn't you really know this championship was going to take place? What's next?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Going on like this... This, in my opinion, is already a bad feature of the future events that the government will have to fight with - with revaccination. When it comes, everyone will get his head and think, Oh God, revaccination has arrived! What do we do? We're making purchases again, head-on, we're doing something on our neck, state of emergency... and so on. There needs to be a clear plan today. Like a hockey. Hockey had to happen, and the plan already had to be two or three weeks ago, so that people would understand--okay, yes, I'm going to go. If I want to visit a hockey, maybe I should go make this vaccination... vaccinate. Come on, who's there... The Johnson & Johnson vaccine should be grafted into one pot. Perhaps this would also have prompted at least part of the people who are now opposed to this to go away. People plan in time, entrepreneurs prepare for this process and increase the capacity for testing. Well, there are options, colleagues! And today we're on the eve of... I wish the Latvian hockey team success, good results, create positive emotions for all of us! I call for support for this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U17	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U18	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Dear colleagues, Good evening! It is indeed a very surreal sitting today. At least a few words to me, my colleague, Viktor Valainis, has been taken out of my mouth. I think it is not unnecessary to repeat it either. I'll remind you that the championship starts tomorrow. This decision of the Saeima... First of all, there is no guarantee - even if this decision of the Saeima is taken today - that the government will do so. It was also like you remember, the decision of the Saeima OIC, which was in no way binding to Karin's government... But even if the government chooses to comply with this decision, how much time will the administrative government be required to take it, it goes through its own rules and to take it. I'm afraid that the championship is likely to be over for that moment. That is why we all understand that we are discussing this issue here because there are current disputes in the coalition, which are being made public, so to speak, carried out outwards. It is good that the JCPOA Members are now saying that, here, with administrative obstacles, something is being hindered, not given the way, and so on. Well, of course... All this is acceptable only when the Members of the New Conservative Party themselves do so against the same opposition - both by shortening the times of the debate and by not imposing the draft laws submitted by the opposition and so on. But, by nature, colleagues! That is absolutely true to Mr. Valaiņš. The Latvian government not only decided not to decide on the presence of viewers in this hockey championship, it really decided - not to decide. By doing so, the government refused to at least give the opportunity to European citizens who have been fully vaccinated to buy tickets, to visit... From this we would, of course, only get the revenue from ticket sales, the hotel would get the revenue from selling its services, the terrace - from selling food. But, most likely, our government has so much money that it does not need any additional tax money if it is not just talking, of course, to raise taxes several times for self-employed persons and others... 200 thousand inhabitants of Latvia. It is true, Mr Valaiņš, that it is a very good observation that, yes, we will show - this hockey championship will, of course, be broadcast around the world - empty tribunals. That will be the image of Latvia that will be shown to the whole world. What can the world deduce from this? Whether there are no people in Latvia, whether the people of Latvia are not watching hockeys at all, or whether some other cataclysm has taken place with the country of Latvia. Of course, compared to what happens in the other competitions that people see - in the same Eurovision and so on. But, colleagues, there is such a much more serious question on the substance of what the government is doing. So the government calls for vaccination. The government and the experts claim that vaccines are effective and safe, but at the same time those people who have been fully vaccinated - are these people changing something? Are they deprived of any restrictions? No, they are also obliged to use facial masks, pay attention to their distance, they cannot go, visit their relatives, their friends, they cannot visit either sports halls or theatres or nothing. Do you think that makes sense to people? So they are invited to receive vaccinations. So what's the difference? Who then believes in the common sense of this government, and if people cease to believe in the common sense of the government, how can they believe in all the new constraints that come from the government? If they do not believe this restriction on common sense, they will not respect the limits either. Then we should not be surprised that statistics on new cases in the community are what it is, because people are more and more simply not believing what comes from the government. So a hockey. It's what I'm doing today... In the media, on social networks, we have just heard that our doctors, namely an epidemiologist, object to the hockey championship being organised for fully vaccinated people to be able to attend games. But where is that logic? Isn’t it true that the same epidemiologists say that fully vaccinated people can gather indoors? How much is it? Ten? Fifty? A hundred, a thousand, two thousand? How many fully vaccinated people can then gather indoors? And then, for example, if our doctors tell us now... Our experts object to this particular draft decision, to the fact that fully vaccinated people would have the opportunity to watch the hockey championship indoors - what about the U.S. doctors from the CDC, who are equivalent to our Disease Prevention and Control Centre? Only last week, the U.S. CDC decided that those people who have been fully vaccinated may no longer... may not use masks or ignore social distance. What do you mean? Why do doctors in the United States have one story? And no immunity of the so-called crowd has been achieved in the United States either. None. It's closer, but it's not close. Why, then, do doctors in the United States share the same view, but our doctors do not? So far, such news from the United States has not yet reached our Ministry of Health and has not managed to change policy. And then a few words also to colleagues about segregation. It looks like today we share our views with very, very many colleagues here in the Saeima. Here's segregation. You know, if, for 30 years, some 95-99 percent of all Members of the ruling coalition are people of the same nationality, then it looks like segregation. But if we are talking about, so to say, different treatment depending on people's actions, then is it segregation? For example: There are some people who work in public administration, some who do not work. The first group is paid salaries, wages for working, the other is not paid. Is this discrimination, colleagues? The question, of course, is... Those of us, of our colleagues who say you don't need to be vaccinated, don't need any restrictions, nothing, well, the question is, what do you really offer? Do you deny that this Covid-19 as such exists at all? Well, it seems very real to people who become infected with it... Of the 100 people who are infected by the community, at least 20 people are in a difficult situation and need a hospital bed, and 2-4 percent of it could die. Then it's quite clear that if it's going to expand, then... The number of beds is just so big... from secreted in our country, but if I am not mistaken, about 1,500. It would just be a matter of time, very quickly that yes... the number of beds will end. And then, where will these people be? In the corridor or how? So it's not quite clear what those of our colleagues who offer - nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, anything... What, then, is the offer? But when you go back to the draft decision, colleagues... According to the latest data, there are 117 thousand people who have completely vaccinated in Latvia for the moment. What are the reasons why they need to be denied access to their hockey games? So, no one or everyone? How's that? Is it because of some strange theory that, on the one hand, it seems necessary to vaccinate, the vaccines are effective, on the other, if you have completely vaccinated, then, no, you can't come together with other people who have been vaccinated. Unfortunately, both sides today behave in such a way that everything that can come together and everything that comes from it is that the Saeima - the legislator - will lose even more people's trust, because, as I said at the beginning, what is happening is surreal. But we can take this small step in the direction of common sense, that is, let at least those people who have completely vaccinated and for whom it is absolutely safe - to gather inside - let them watch the hockey game. I'm sorry, colleagues! Are you sorry? If not, I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U19	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U20	I'm gonna shoot Vyacheslav Dombrovskis right away. Mr Dombrovskis, if you personally, as a Member of the Saeima, take on material responsibility for something that happens to me when you vaccinate me and I remain incapable of work, die, I am sick and so on, and you will respond personally and raise my children, I am going to vaccinate tonight. Tonight. If you cannot give or guarantee such a commitment at least one of these companies that produce vaccines or the state and so on, then it is not wise to talk. That is first. Secondly. Mr Dombrovskis, you were once a great Russian fan, at least a Russian-speaking fan. I would advise you to look at how the KHL championship took place here beyond the border or how to go to theatres in Russia. Instagrams and social networks you are familiar with, in social networks, look at the image of the actors you put in there. Full performances with viewers, parties, everything happens, everything is alive, people live. What are you talking about? What kind of world do you live in? To Mars or Latvia? Where it's hundreds of kilometres beyond the border in Belarus, where there's... how - 400 kilometers from Latvia, from Riga... There have never been any restrictions. There should have been a brother grave there... The brothers' graves should have been. You don't see that, Mr. Dombrovskis? Are you blind? You don't see that in Sweden, which resisted all these masks, all this madness, because they have one reasonable epidemiologist, who has relatively much authority, thank God... Look at that political situation, too. Who wants those restrictions? A local Unity wants it, which unfortunately or fortunately is not in power. Look at how this virus sees something in independent countries... See all this. Look at how England wanted to make some restrictions again and people left the streets... There, millions went out in the streets, the government got laid. We are unfortunately afraid of getting out of the streets. But if I went over 100,000 streets, I would get up too. If tonight were 100 thousand on the coast, tomorrow there would be full hockey trek, as I stand here on the coast of the Baltic Sea. Mr. Dombrovskis, open your eyes! The vaccines will save mankind? Really? Two thousand years or how much of Jesus Christ’s time lives... and somehow live. Now, suddenly, there's a miracle that's gonna save all of us? Open your eyes, it's my personal choice: I want to, I don't want to, I don't want to, I don't want to, I don't want to, I don't want to, I don't. What did you compare - to work in public administration or not. Is there a restriction that hockeys will be allowed to be viewed by someone working in public administration? Only a Member can watch a hockey? You don't have to do demagogy, Mr. Dombrovskis. The fact that you believe in vaccines does not mean that everyone needs to believe. I believe in common sense. I believe there's more here than the fact that all of us will be saved by pharmacy alone. That is not true. We need to live a healthy life, think healthy, rejoice, hug with people, and live with love. Even to me, when I turn off the microphone, we need to love Inare Mūrnieki. And that brings joy and health. We need to be happy! Where there is joy, there is health! Mr Dombrovskis, it has always been so for hundreds of thousands of years. Where there is fear, there is disease. What are you trying to do for people all the time, well, I don't know, impose? To get them sick? No, no! And, Mrs Mūrniece, I would like to conclude by saying, please, take off the mask. You're sitting there alone... alone on that throne, please pull off the mask. You're more beautiful without that mask... and you won't look so tough. Thank you. Good evening.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U21	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U22	Hello, dear colleagues! Of course, I will not have such an emotional speech as Mr Gobzem. However, I would like to take this draft decision with caution from a practical point of view. We're talking global things here. But here's the world championship in hockey tomorrow. Then the first question is - why did we agree to organise this championship in Latvia at all, if our citizens cannot participate as viewers, at least some part? From an economic point of view, it is not understandable why we are paying out of the budget to prepare this championship, but the audience will be completely unable to participate. I think that this decision, even in part, but still addresses this issue, solves this issue. One. Second. I would not, however, agree with my colleague Jūlija Stepanenko that here everyone is in the pre-election mood of municipalities as rubles and the like. I am an independent Member, I don't have my own... at the back of any particular batch list. I support this draft decision only from its recital that people, fans, are waiting for the opportunity to watch hockey games on the spot. Next. Sport, especially the hockey, has always been such a united moment in Latvian society. And in this case, too, we should not deny the possibility of such a moment of unification between people who represent different religions, different nationalities... this feeling of community - to feel with our team - in person. It would also be minus if we did not allow it. Next, the fact that vaccinated, unvaccinated... The Union of Greens/Farmers mentioned the possibility of participating in these rapid tests. But just, one hour ago, the Minister for Health on the television programme - I heard this moment - said quite openly that these rapid antigen tests, as he said, are clearly inaccurate, only 30 percent of these tests are true. So I think if the Minister for Health says so, then really those tests do not say anything, then there are other questions - why they are needed at all, or why they are to be paid for. Go on. The captain of our hockey team Kaspars Daugaviņš today invited on television that however, some viewers should be present at the booths that support our team, Latvia. These are the following considerations, the practical reasons why such a draft decision should be taken. My principle is, a little better in the hand than a tree tree. At least these people who are, let us say, vaccinated should be able to... give the opportunity to participate as a viewer. For the government. There will now be someone who says that this is another parliamentary accident, another accident. Well, what? But people will benefit. I'm "for". Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U23	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U24	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Dear colleagues, Today I do not intend to say so, speak to Mr Gobzem, but if you really need it, you can, of course. Let's go in a row. Firstly, Mr Gobzem, for the two thousand years that we are living here without any vaccines. You, Mr Gobzem, open your eyes, look at the list of vaccines that you and every one of us got into even when we were in the childbirth room, because it was being grafted in a compulsory manner for all children. Look at this... open your eyes and see their list. I will reveal to you now perhaps a terrible thing - that you have been vaccinated, Mr Gobzem, and not once. Several times. Like every one of us in our childhood. Secondly. I understand that you generally deny the existence of Covid19. I'm familiar - personally known! - some, maybe even many people who have shook rather heavy way. They didn't have anything that fun, they needed hospitalization. They needed bed and medical help. You see, Mr Gobzem, given that both we have so many doctors in the country, and we have so many beds too, if at that point they had beds occupied with either other people or other patients in the community, and the doctors would have been busy, then those people I personally know wouldn't be here with us anymore. At last for the responsibility. As a lawyer, you should know how that responsibility should go, that's the way with two directions. Then you asked me whether I was prepared to take responsibility for the side effects of vaccines if someone died or how. Yes, there are side effects with the vaccines. The probability of adverse reactions is much, much more than 1,000 times lower than the side effect that can be obtained from the community. As I said, 20 percent of the probability that it will be heavy, hospitalization... and 2-4 percent probability of dying from it. And people are pretty real... Of which he died. So if you ask me if I'm going to take responsibility for this if those people who choose to take the vaccine have any side effects or if so... Then I wonder if you are prepared to take responsibility for the fact that, if you do, in your own, to say that you will infect someone in the entire denial of the pandemic and someone will either become seriously ill or die... Would you then be willing to compensate them for their expenses? Because you've done it to them... and since you are also calling for this, are you prepared to take responsibility in this way for all those who have so infected others? You are also ready to compensate in this way for all the loss of human illness, death. This is a road with two directions, Mr. Gobzem! Think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U25	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U26	Colleagues! Mr. Dombrovskis! We pay for it every day - for the possible consequences that we can have if we come somewhere, for example, without a mask, we will approach someone about a meter... not in the vicinity of two meters. This is paid every day by hockey coaches, cosmetologists, the same catering service providers, who already do not have enough of those terraces to feed their family. Every day, Mr. Dombrovskis, someone pays insurance. But if we're talking about whether we're sorry that a little people will get into the arena... Although I really cannot imagine how you will now address the same people who are on vaccination but who simply fail to complete that second cycle because they have only received one vaccine. The same people who, for example, also support your sayings about the need for vaccination just like cleaning your teeth - what will you tell them if you support this draft decision? That you regard them as worse than the people who were in the priority groups, the seniors and all those who are not interested in the hockey. The majority of such vaccinees are likely to be vaccinated. If we're talking about whether we're sorry... Are we sorry that unvaccinated people will be able to move only around the traveling area in the future? Are we sorry that unvaccinated people will be able to use the bus only on one entrance door? Are we sorry - and it is now true - that unvaccinated children will not be able to participate in dance classes? Our parents receive such reports from those who conduct dance classes, and most likely if they are local authorities, there is, of course, an order. Are we sorry that children who have not been vaccinated will not be able to participate in various activities? Do we regret that the rector of Riga Stradins University has issued such an order that it will not be possible to arrive at the university by August 30 for those who have not vaccinated or crushed. But others, those who for some reason cannot make this decision... And it's not action, it's a decision on medical manipulation, medical manipulation. Do we regret that people who cannot be vaccinated will be in 72 hours... Every time you have to test your money? Are we sorry about this? I think we are sorry about what we are building Latvia at the moment. You're so much worried about empty tricks here -- oh, what's the world going to think about us? What does the world think about us that our children are still not playing hockey? What does the world think about us, if we have children who cannot do figure skating right now, they are denied it. Why haven't you been so terrified about this? Where are the two extraordinary sittings of the Saeima on child hockey, football and everything else? Where is it? Thank you, colleagues. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U27	Name to Member Ilmar Duritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U28	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. High honourable Members! Good evening for the second time tonight! I would, however, like some aspects in relation to... to state the draft decision. Firstly, I believe - and also in the opinion of the Ministry of Health - that this is an premature decision. This is not the time when we can afford it, whatever it is. The epidemiological situation in Latvia remains very fragile. As we can see, every day we have six seven hundred new sick people, and those who have been diagnosed... Actually, if we look at that, then... fully vaccinated in Latvia is only 7.5 percent of the adult population. In the European Union, we are in the fifth place after the possibility of being infected. So one of the highest options for infection is in our country. It is also irresponsible because, colleagues, the incubation period of the virus is up to 14 days. Therefore it is not safe to rely only on a negative test result – it is said by specialists, and this is also reflected in practice, because in this long incubation period... The virus may appear earlier and may appear later... in the sample. A sample may be negative but may be positive after some time. It is also irresponsible, in my view, to the doctors who are dealing with both the sick, the tests and the people who are fighting for their lives in resuscitation beds. It's unfair and discriminatory because... Of course, we can build here... and, in fact, this decision seems to create such a privileged sports fan club that will now be able to go and enjoy these games, but at the same time (and here I also have to agree with the previous speakers) we still have a lot to do because of this fragile and unstable epidemiological situation. We have many restrictions. Why, then, do we now have to take such a bold and incomprehensible step, and also to a certain extent, a discriminatory step against many people? It won't encourage vaccination because it doesn't... if a person is not yet independent, it is impossible to be able to pick up and get immunity until the start of the championship until the game. It won't make any contribution... Onset of immunity: 15 days - complete immunity after Pfizer and Modern Vaccine and 21 days - after the first AstraZeneca vaccine. It is also inconsistent and difficult for society to explain or even explain because... Why do we not allow children to exercise indoors? Why can't children go to school? Why are museums and theatres closed? Because there is still a difficult epidemiological situation. Because we need to endure another week in order to stabilise the situation, and then we will be able to treat all these areas equally. I think that it is also very cruel to those who, as I said, may be infected by these measures - and this is a high probability! - and they'll go to hospitals. And the world's practice and experience shows that it is precisely in these big events that the infection takes place. And it often breaks the locks for a new mass... infection. And I would say that if we... Well, let's assume this viewer will now be... They will not be a few dozens - they will be hundreds and perhaps thousands of people. And to infect only 100 or 200, then... Colleagues, its statistics on co-morbidity are inexorable: on average around two percent... Between 1.8% and 2 percent of people die of this infection, and about 10 percent go to hospital. Do we really have this decision... Is it worth it - risk? Let us assume that if only 100 people become infected, then perhaps two of them - on average, by statistics - will die and 20 or more will end up in intensive care. Colleagues, in this regard, I want to tell you one completely random conversation that I had with my good acquaintance last week and... concluded this week. We talked about vaccination and vaccination opportunities and records, and she told me that her neighbors, who were also going to get vaccinated and had actually signed up, have been affected by the community, the whole family, and that a woman with a child aged 45 lives in her family... with his father and mother. And this week my acquaintance told me that this woman is dead, her father is in intensive care, but the mother has a very light covid. And that's the reality. We seem to have forgotten that the infection is right here. And the family shall remain, and the children shall remain, and the man shall die. A person who was really supposed to live, live for a long time, create an economic contribution, raise his children. It seems to us that it no longer affects us like that. And I wonder and listen that the Member is not afraid to die of the community - and that can be - but there is an enormous fear of dying of the vaccine. And it's paradoxical that a man who's finished... with higher education do not believe in science and science mix with faith. But that's the situation. At the end of my speech, I would like to say that the authors of the initiative should also think about whether you have a way of actually ensuring accurate identification immediately before the viewers enter this championship... identification of the vaccination fact? Is that what it is? As I said, the government is preparing it, and with June 1... And with 15 June... already internationally it will be completely visible and manageable, and identifiable. Who will be responsible for their squandering, their situation? What will happen if we make such an unwise decision? And in this case, if the Saeima accepts it and assumes it, then the Saeima must also bear the responsibility to the end - the responsibility before doctors, the responsibility to the sick. And this risk is extremely high. That is why I, my fellow Members, am calling for no support. I call for no support. And nothing... Dear coalition partners, no low ratings are - no, no! - be immune to public health and public safety. And I'm sorry you don't care about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U29	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U30	Thank you, Mrs. Mourniece. Colleagues! To be honest, I was not going to speak today. I'm not a big hockey fan, but... Well, to be honest, there are three things that should be talked about. The first is about what we are talking about: discrimination, segregation, restrictions on rights. Undoubtedly, the draft decision provides for legal restrictions, but is this really a unique case or not? I do not think that - especially in the area of health, health conservation. Perhaps someone remembers a debate in the Saeima about the need to increase the age at which young people could buy alcoholic beverages from 18 to 21 years of age. Before reaching 18 years of age you can't buy even a beer bottle today. This is a restriction - undoubtedly a restriction on rights, because to deal with another... You can still get married. The other thing is about the decision, in general, the validity of the decision. In its decision to organise the hockey championship in Latvia, the government has already taken full responsibility, not to divide it, as it was until August last year... but, as the pandemic goes in full swing, making a decision on full responsibility, taking the world hockey championship... Consequently, the consequences of that decision should also have been considered. I should have thought. Third. What action the Government may take after this decision has been taken in the Saeima, if it has been adopted. The government can liberalise this draft decision... the decision itself, because here it is not about the task of filling “Arēna Rīga” with 10 thousand spectators. Here you can remove all those restrictions - vaccination, flaking and so on... limiting the number of visitors. Why don't nobody ask the question that... When you enter a supermarket for food, you do not require a vaccination certificate or... No one is asking if you have been ill or have been so ill. It is just about how many people can visit the area at the same time. So there could also be a relevant decision here, removing the claim as well... I think none of the applicants will object if that decision is liberalised on the part of the government... But - only should naturally approach this matter, responsibly, thinking about the consequences as well. However, I would call for support for this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U31	Name of Member Anita Muižniece. ( Pause) We can't hear you, Mrs. Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U32	You hear me?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U33	You hear me, yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U34	Yeah, thank you. Hello, dear colleagues! I had not planned to take part in this debate either, but when I heard the speech of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Health, Mr Dūritis, I applied. I have to say what I mean. First. The draft decision seems to have been too lazy to read. There, white on black, it's written... the draft decision refers to... So this permission to take part in the world championship hockey... We are talking about vaccinated and immunised people or those who have co-infections. We have not mentioned the tests at any time. And then I have such logical questions. With his speech, did Mr Dūreis just claim that these pots were not needed, that we would continue our current lifestyle even when we were vaccinated, now, at least 80 percent of people? How will we identify the fact of vaccination? Let us just wait for a single European framework? Then, sorry, for whom we have manovaccina.lv, for whom is e-health, for whom, I'm sorry, this card... Is that so? Mr. Durishi, can't we really identify, or do we not want to? Why will people not be able to get immunity after vaccination? Is it necessary to remind you that this has happened because the Ministry of Health has done everything to buy enough vaccines in Latvia? Is that why, Mr. Durish? I think that we can fear, of course, and that we need to be very cautious, but there must be reason: reason in decisions and reason based on logic. Don't put it, Mr. Durish, in his own grips, because it seems that there's some kind of schizophrenic trend: on the one hand, the Ministry of Health... you, including... Continuously invite people to vaccinate so that we return to normal as soon as possible, while on the other hand, everything has been done to prevent it from happening. Now it has to be stopped once, and this will be one good... a small but good step to start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U35	The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U36	Good evening, colleagues! I'd like to ask you today... not just to ask... I would like to ask my colleagues not to support this draft law in any way, nor to support discrimination in any way, despite the fact that someone wants to present it for positive discrimination. Yes, I agree that our team needs support - no pity! - but if we ban unvaccinated people from attending the hockey championship today, it will be a huge mistake, it will be the first step that will divide society. In the past years, people in every election - every local election, every parliamentary election - were shared by nationality, by language skills, by fear of the Russian-speaking or by some inconceivable beast coming... Today, society is frightened by the virus and is divided into societies. And with what goal? I think it is only with an economic objective. That was the case in previous years. When it comes to responsibility and mortality, does anyone follow statistics? What happens to those who suffer and die from diseases? For example, more than a community dies from tumors every month. Why are we not alarming? Why didn't it get financial to treat other diseases? I call for it not to be moralised, who takes responsibility for the people who overloaded the community. Explain to me why... People with cancer are given disability, and they have been looked after for about two years to avoid metastasis. But what about people who have been overloaded by the community? They don't have to close the sick sheet by phone, and it's okay. That's so dangerous! On days 10, 14 - telephone conversation with a family doctor. If you have no symptoms, you will be closed off your sick leave. And that's so dangerous! Isn't that weird? You don't have to scare people with death! You don't have to compare the ankle against the kovid with the ankle against, for example, tetanus or other diseases, because those ankles had all the trial phases, all the tests! And for the full chambers. Tell people who are the people who fill the hospital chambers! Could it be that they are people with chronic diseases - because we are restricting people for a whole year? We spent time and asked for a distance, did not go outside, sit at home, do not walk or visit nature trails. Here's the consequences of what you did! And now we are talking about the fact that the chambers are full of... And when people get to the hospital with some underlying diseases, suddenly they find themselves in the community too. Colleagues, until recently, a fellow Member ran to complain to the Mandate, ethics and application commission about the idea of sticking stickers on restaurants or public spaces... that people with unconventional sexual orientation are prohibited from entering a room. Well, there was chaos: how can it sort people out?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But what are we doing now? We really divide and divide people and society. For some of the vaccinees, we will allow you to attend the hockey championship, unvaccinated to sit at home. Just because of medical manipulation... After that, after the religious... I'm sorry... I call on colleagues not to support this draft law, as it will be a first step towards discrimination against people and disintegrating society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U37	The name of Member Eric Pucen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U38	Good evening, colleagues! Well, I personally... I'm not about vaccines, but I'm not against vaccines either. It is a free choice for every person, whether he wants to vaccinate or not, and everyone makes a personal decision. But I think this draft decision - well, these are just the consequences... these are the consequences of prolonged inactivity. We know there's an Operational Steering Group that works, but I think they don't work. They, the wise, are gathered there, and then they judge there, but I think they judge how to do nothing. I'm worried about that... in total. About Latvian sport. What will the Latvian Roadcross Championship be like? What will the Latvian championship in motocross be like? We're talking here about the world championship. I believe that there should be people who have been vaccinated or who have been overloaded. If they are able to produce these documents, they are entitled to attend. We are watching that in the public transport of Riga people are compressed... people are coming in tight... But why can't we... Is that so? Why can we not let people into the arena, where they will be scattered and be able to watch and support the hockey? And the people, those helpers who come from abroad, they'll still bring... give some contribution to our restaurants, our outdoor terraces; people will spend time here. I think very short-sighted is what we now... I really support this draft decision, and this is a little step forward, but I call on colleagues from the New Conservative Party to also: next week we are going to work, because we see that no one is addressing the issue of Latvian sport! The issue will not be resolved, work does not go ahead, and therefore we must take this issue into our hands and find a way in which the championships, the Latvian championships, can take place out; we need to think about how the Latvian championships will take place in the autumn, because nowhere the community will disappear. It's not gonna go anywhere! And not only do professional athletes want to play sports; they want those who play sports at amateur level - they want to play in their own district, district championship, they want to develop and improve themselves, not just wait. I think that this draft decision, which has been tabled, is very welcome, but it is only the consequence of the inaction that has been so far. We know that the World Championship has long been decided upon, but nothing... No, there has not even been a discussion about some safe protocol that viewers will be able to watch. So that I support - and my group will also support! - the draft decision. I hope that people will be able to go to the world championship hockey and watch it in person and support our team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U39	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U40	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, What is missing in this debate is whether it is a historical record, as has been the case so far, of whether or not a visit to this world championship could be allowed. By the comments made by Members too... it can be heard that part of it has missed... I therefore consider this to be my duty - however, to outline how these discussions have been conducted so far. Let me start by saying that the Ministry of Education and Science and the Latvian Hockey Federation have been almost for two months... for two months consults the Ministry of Health, OSG and others, trying to look for this safe protocol, the safe way to do so - presented a wide range of possibilities, starting with that the arena could be released... For example, “Arena Riga” could put viewers inside through 16 different entrances, starting with that it could only be allowed for vaccinated and flaked people who, in addition to all this, would have carried out a test at least 48 hours before. So, if you've stabbed or vaccinated and you've done a test 48 hours before. This option is also proposed. Various options are proposed. And also the Ministry of Health and the experts of the Ministry of Health have not been completely negative about these ideas. What caused us to come to this parliamentary debate and submit these draft laws and collect these many signatures and convene this next meeting - this is the absolute disregard of the head of the Cabinet of Ministers and, in a way, of the Ministry of Health: he did not want to include this draft law and this discussion on the agenda of the Cabinet of Ministers. And now that's, I guess, a philosophical exception. It is simply a matter of seeing how the Cabinet looks at these issues and whether the Cabinet of Ministers chooses, say, to manage the risks, or whether their approach is simply such - not taking risks and hoping that they will pass; hope that we will somehow overcome the society's time and, despite the fact that it promises that it will not end this year or perhaps next year or even we will simply not let anything happen, let us not take risks and then we will obviously not be... someone thinks that then we will not be politically responsible for what will or will not happen. In my opinion, however, it must have a different approach, and that is what we... We also see that the majority of the Saeima feels so. That approach must be what... such that, however, these risks are assessed, weighed and understood as safe to live with them in the long term, not to put their head in the sand or put their head on the sand, as the stress does, and pretends that nothing happens around them. And you have to come back here -- you can't just come back! - to what Mr. Durysh said about why then it's not going to happen at the end of the day... Let's say, in schools... There was no such long training. Mr. Durishi, I would advise you to meet... Indeed, we are very active on the part of the Ministry of Education and Science in monitoring - practically every week - data on how this training takes place in other countries of the European Union. In most European Union countries, at least 16 countries or 18 countries (as at some point), at least small classes are taught on the spot. In countries with higher rates of morbidity than in Latvia. And in countries with lower rates of morbidity than in Latvia. So the whole spectrum of countries. And what does this timetable tell us? What do these statistics tell us? It tells us that this is a political solution. This is a political decision - whether to put children on school and to manage these risks, or to manage these risks, to place tables every two meters, if necessary, carrying masks, but to give them the opportunity to learn and acquire knowledge fully. Or decide that nothing is needed, take less risks better and hope that then our political responsibility or the political responsibility of a particular individual will be less, because we have banned everything. Here I have one more example to mention: it is about sport. This is an example of the United States where... I hope no one will deny that there are sufficiently powerful epidemiologists and a reasonably reasonable society. And I'll refer to this year's... Well, October 2020. From October 2020 onwards, in the United States... National Basketball League... almost all States of America... I don't want to say that all of you, but I think all of you... I haven't tested, but as seen, practically all basketball games are held with viewers on the spot. Yeah, these viewers wear masks. Yes, these viewers sit two meters away from other viewers. Yes, the arena's performance is up to 15 percent, and, by the way, it's exactly what the Ministry of Education and Science offered - the maximum arena's performance... a maximum of 15 per cent of the total capacity. So is it really American epidemiologists and American decision-makers who are less capable, less reasonable? Do they choose to say that this cannot happen, or do they still choose to manage these risks? They choose to look for ways to do so, because they realize that this epidemic must live together in the long term. These are the choices that we have to make from time to time. And I really regret the fact that it has come to the Cabinet of Ministers... Knowing how important and unclear this issue is - to manage these risks or to refuse to take any risks - the Prime Minister chose not to even include it in the discussion. Knowing that perhaps even most ministers in the Cabinet are supportive, he chose not to even include this topic in the discussion! I think it's already... It is a fact that, quite an arogance and quite a great one, either, wish, I must say, alone or through the OLG - this group of experts, mainly led by officials and mainly by officials - to try to control these processes in such a way that, rather than the Cabinet of Ministers in general takes these decisions, in practice, the Prime Minister has a one-sided option not to look at the issue. This is not acceptable. In my opinion, these risks must be managed. We have to look in the long term. We have shown - in various ways, with different moves - that we can figure out how to manage these risks well. The Cabinet of Ministers has also made many good decisions in this regard - how to open up some things and manage these risks - in keeping with the epidemiological requirements of course, and so on. This should also be done here. And we can't ignore such an important issue, however... Latvian society is so important. We can't pretend it's all... and to replace its decision-making with the views of epidemiologists. We have to look realistically, we have to rendezvous, we have to weigh the benefits and the losses... possible. We have to understand that if people have been vaccinated, we have yet to do tests... and if they stand with masks in the arena and it is filled with part-capacity - up to 15 percent, for example, then still... Are these risks really so high? Is it really the case in other developed Western European countries, where events are organised in this way... Are they really unreasonable people? Are you sure? October... Currently, in the United States, there are 50 percent of collected or even salty more... In October, it was strong, significantly less, and it was a much smaller part of society. However, there were found ways to do all this. I'm asking you to watch in the long run, don't get caught up with this... Well, I have to say, populist ejection: madness, madness, now we... We'll just do anything, open anything, or lead any risk, that's not gonna be crazy! What horror will happen! Well, it's not. We need to look in the long term and act accordingly. It is for this very reason that I will call for my support for this draft decision today - so that we continue this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U41	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U42	Good evening, colleagues! Like my colleagues... We will support this draft decision tonight. Let us support it because there are three very important arguments which until now were unfortunately not contained in the decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the management of the pandemic. In particular, this draft decision, which we will now support, contains both scientific grounds, common sense and, as strange as it may be, professional management. At last, professional management! I'm sorry, Mr. Durish, but your rhetoric and arguments... several places there are those that do not really withstand criticism. First of all. Absolutely logically, Mrs Muižniece has told you that you should have read the text of the bill before using such an argument that, here, immunity after the pot, such as Pfizer, Moderna, is on Day 15. This moment is included in the relevant draft law and I therefore also refer to the fact that it has scientific basis. Another argument is responsibility. Are the Members who will vote in favour or are not prepared to take responsibility for how many people will then be infected? I think, Mr Dūrišs, you have to think about your responsibilities, like all the Cabinet of Ministers led by Mr Kariņš. How many people are sick because you did not buy in time and did not buy enough vaccines? Who will answer? Have you already counted how many people have become infected and how many people have died? Mr. Durishi! I think the whole Cabinet of Ministers should also think about a new challenge. In particular, I predicted that it would be very difficult for the Cabinet to make some practical decisions regarding the draft decision, which will be supported today, because it will be necessary to provide all vaccinated people with documentation in order to implement it. I've vaccinated... and I've even found my graft passport at home... Again, there's an entry where... with the type of seal... only one date has been recorded. I've got one more document, a piece of paper, where it's... in the form of a stamp... only the date and a sticker. And I have a question: is it a document? Can it be considered as a document certifying that I have been vaccinated? Why is this record still not in my e-health, and why do I have to inform my family doctor myself that I have been vaccinated on the phone? This is the main challenge. Why do we still not have a procedure in place after several months of vaccination to confirm the fact that vaccination is being carried out on people? Therefore, I have a question: will the Cabinet be able to implement the norm that could be adopted today? Despite all this, I will definitely support this draft decision because... Do you know what the element of common sense and professional management is in it - with scientific justification - at last? First of all, there is proof that the position and opposition in the Saeima, this unfortunate 13th century. In the family, you can work together - when you put your minds together normally, healthy... I mean, healthy people. Above all, in this draft decision there is finally optimism. The first was on the terraces, now the second... There is optimism and hope that we could also pass on to the people of Latvia - that this long-standing Venice Carnival will ever end in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U43	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U44	Thank you. Good evening, colleagues! I will not support this draft decision, and I also ask other colleagues not to support it. Why? Because we already have a divided society and there is no unity on many issues. Vaccinated and unvaccinated; those who may and those who cannot watch hockey championships are another way to divide society, divide it and discriminate against a particular group of society. That, in my opinion, is not acceptable. I am very surprised that this proposal was proposed by the New Conservative Party under the supervision of the Ministry of Education and Science, which (A sound defect.) ... children sports and children sports classes, both professional and... education... the field of interest education. We know very well that, on several occasions, Members of the Saeima had drawn attention... and it was also decided that, in accordance with the health safety protocol developed by sports organisations themselves, children and young people... This was not allowed, and it is still not ensured. Children and their parents still do not understand whether or not children’s camps will take place (Not to be heard). ... The situation is still not clear (not to be heard.) ... And all this is also taking into account the worrying and even glaring facts regarding psychological health and the emotional and mental state of children... taking into account distance training. Colleagues! If children have limitations in the field of education, then why are adult gamblers in an emergency... and, in this way - with such a draft decision and plus others - discriminating against other citizens by dividing them into groups? I do not support this project and ask those who will support it to think about the consequences and that this is not the case (not to be heard). ... It is important to solve a number of other problems and issues and (not to be heard) ... professional management... I'm going to join Mr. Durish here to... Most likely, this is about actually low ratings before the government's dismissal and the desire to please hockey fans, but hockey fans are both those who want to vaccinate and those who refrain or do not want to do so. This draft decision is precisely a document that divides the company further and is likely to damage both the general atmosphere and the general health situation in the country. I do not support this draft decision, and I also ask colleagues not to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U45	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U46	Good evening, everybody! I didn't mean not only to take part in this debate, I didn't mean to take part in this tonight show, because I didn't even know it would be, but now, since it's happening, I can't leave my mind on what's going on. First of all, I am pleased to hear that coalition colleagues are finally beginning to assess adequately the capacity of their government. Reflecting what is irresponsible, then the greatest irresponsible is to take power, but not to be able to make responsible and adequate decisions. It is most hypocritical and deplorable: to present this action as a responsibility at the moment, because you see, we have not made any decisions. It's a classic little thinking. In front of the challenges... Instead of addressing these challenges, they think how to get rid of them, how to get rid of risks, and not how to manage risks. So far, unfortunately, I hear from my coalition colleagues just talking about risk management, not how you will actually do it, not to mention that you are starting to do it in real terms. If this government is not capable... as I understand you are already coming to such a revelation, then change it, not continue to be sorry about each other and continue to undermine the people's trust in state power, because today there is not only the irresponsibility and inability of this power, but also schizophrenia, a real schizophrenia. In particular, on the one hand, this power desperately and unteachedly tries to force the community to vaccinate, on the other hand, at the same time, it is itself denying the meaning of this vaccination by its own actions, judgments and decisions. As a result, you earn more and more social nihilism and apathy. And it's justified, it's realistic. You have earned it yourself, and you have created it yourself, not... how you try to present it, insidious society. You are like bad riders on a horse, who in front of obstacles do not think how to overcome them, but think how to avoid falling off a horse, and so pull the baskets as closely as possible, so that it is impossible for a horse to overcome them at all. As a result, thanks to your inadequate efforts to save society from the risks of communion infection, you have caused much greater systemic problems. They are actually falling, getting bigger and bigger. And maybe you don't see them, because you almost see nothing at all, and you can understand little and put together systemically, meaningful conclusions. But I'm just... what you would suggest to do to think about it - try reading how many people have died, committed suicides because of what you have already done. How many people die of other diseases because you have simply pulled the baskets in one place without being able to solve the situation properly. I think that soon, there will be more such people than those who have died from the community. That's so little... Only a reflection on the debate on responsibility and irresponsibleness. I think that today, as the opposition of the Saeima, we will have votes without which this decision would not be possible... it would not be possible to accept it, although we are well aware that then one party will present it exactly as its success, as it was with the terraces, although it was thanks to the opposition that the necessary wording for amending the Covide law was prepared and it was the opposition that initiated the discussion of such amendments in the Saeima, and it was thanks to the intelligent voting strategy proposed by the opposition on these proposals that it was possible to achieve the necessary support. Therefore, the terraces are now open. Similarly, in this case. If the promoters of the draft decision had been... Well, I believe that it would have been useful for the promoters of the draft decision to discuss it first and agree on it with the opposition before they were approved, because we objectively have much more experience, how to prepare such decisions and how to guide them in order to have a qualitative result, because, unlike you, the coalition colleagues, apologies, we have been working in the Saeima all this time really, and not just sitting obediently and serving as voting buttons for legalising the decisions of the coalition Council, as you have to do. In this case, you have at least a badge of commitment and a desire to start working as a real decision-making power. We appreciate it and we will support you, not... that you can only be on the voting buttons. However, if you had consulted us in good time before you were moving forward with this draft decision, we would have helped you to prepare this draft decision that would not discriminate against part of society, because now this decision will only apply to a very small part of society, as the opposition colleagues have rightly pointed out to you. In addition, we would have helped you prepare a draft decision that would actually be implemented because... we are not convinced of this draft decision made in your nitrogen. We have no such conviction. Why? For example, if you have written in your draft decision that the possibility provided for in it can only be implemented in accordance with the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers, then, knowing the capacity of this government, you will most likely wait for the end of the championship. In words, you'll probably not wait at all. This is what OIC has already mentioned. A very similar, similar situation. Already at the beginning of last year we adopted amendments to the law, which provided for this government, which had promised to fight the OIC, to develop specific regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, order, concrete procedure for recalculation... how this overcompensation will be recalculated... and avoided this overcompensation by taking into account all the millions that have not been taken into account so far. This has already been the case in August last year. The government has still not done so. It is simply an example for you to understand what you are dealing with and what you should have done. It is sad, of course, that such a revelation of the power of the government to the coalition's colleagues has come only now, because we have missed an excellent opportunity in Latvia due to the impotence of the government, the inability to make responsible and well-founded decisions, in fact a lot of opportunities that we could have done thanks to this hockey championship. First and foremost, develop and approve a security protocol for mass events - including international mass events - as such could be implemented here. Moreover, it would not be very costly to pay for any such cooperative measure, as this government does for every community event, but rather to set up principles at the expense of other countries, how people could come here, how much they would have to pay when arriving, making a transfer to hotels, living in hotels, moving to hotels, at this event - all of this we could have developed, trying and making someone pay for it, making great know-how, perhaps useful to the whole world. We've missed this opportunity, as little as we were. If there were people with the slightest initiative, even the slightest understanding, who ever made a responsible decision in life, they would certainly have taken this opportunity. We've missed it. Just like we've missed... To put it more correctly, you, the coalition of power, have missed an opportunity for people, our own people, here on the ground, to take advantage of this event, because, as has rightly been said, they were able to draw up a safety report and manage these risks. Why did I say it so safely? Not just because I'm... I am able to think logically and critically, but because I know there are already real, practical examples, where in other countries it has already been approved, where there have been massive events with thousands of people participating, and how, according to the security protocol, they have been... is almost absolutely safe. Of these thousands, almost no one has subsequently become ill, and then a special monitoring has been carried out to make sure that it has worked or has not worked. This is once again an opportunity that we have missed. In addition, what comes out now deplorable and ridiculous... And then how are these people... Then one of the opportunities missed, another possibility, a very important opportunity for this government - if people knew it in good time, then many would have vaccinated. Now people even want to... Those who wanted to take part in the Hockey Championship (because the vaccineers will have such a chance) will not be able to get immunity because they have not done so to date, have not received vaccination. So it's... just a few examples of options that have been missed. Here was stressed... what I would also like to say, I have heard this historic rhetoric about the fact that such decisions cannot be made, this can lead to an enormous increase in the number of additional infections and who will be responsible for this. Thus, contrary to these claims, the practical examples show that such measures can and may not lead to this risk. Here I want to ask the opposite question, now very well-founded - who will answer... I remember this rhetoric about the terraces: if we now open the terraces and if these terraces lead to an increase in the spread of infection, will the Members be prepared to be responsible for their decision? Now we see that it is happening exactly as the Members had predicted that the opening of these terraces does not, in fact, increase the risk of infection, on the contrary - it is likely that they have reduced them, because people are in the fresh air, more move, strengthen immunity, sit much more safely at the tables than they did when sitting together in the car or sitting on a bench. We can see that the risks of infection are falling. And then I have the opposite question to Krišjānis Kariņš and his government: are you prepared to take responsibility for the fact that, because of your decisions, our society and the economy have suffered unjustly? And thousands... I think that together, there will already be thousands of people who have died out of error because of your decisions, and this will soon be proved by the facts. Millions... There are hundreds of millions of damage caused to the economy. Are you prepared to take responsibility for this? That is what I am asking you to think about. And what I would very much like to see is that this power is beginning to make responsible and thoughtful decisions. You can't justify any of your decisions. Today, we have the requests that we made. I will prove this to you through my requests. We will also have on vaccination, on these vaccinated identifications, on how these mechanisms will all work - you will have the opportunity to prove that I am not right, or I will have the opportunity once again to prove to the general public that you are simply frail, incompetent, arrogant, broken and inadequate people in their power who simply no longer see reality. You can't make any decision at all. The only thing I can wish you - what I have already wished many times, which will work for this government too - children, learn physics! The key to how to fight this afērce and the plague of the community lies in the knowledge of physics - primarily physics. Knowing how this virus is spreading, how this infection is spreading, you could have developed a much more intelligent solution if you had the sense and the courage to do so. So far, you have not been able to demonstrate it. Therefore, the best you could do is go home in time, because then you have the hope that the next power, when assessing your actions, will not have to make decisions that will lead you to sit in a completely different place, not on the street of Freedom. I think that unfortunately, at the end of that time, there will be the only opportunity to free Latvian society from this curse. That's all of me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U47	The name to Member Karina Scratch for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U48	Colleagues, I would like to keep and comment a little on what I heard earlier from Mr Znotiņš and Mrs Muižniece... and in general on the New Conservative Party. Well, I don't believe in any words! If everyone remembers, one year ago, last October, what happened? We cancelled the free space... in nature, the marathon, and it's okay. Where were the experts? What happened in these months, you became smarter? Now you're paying attention, you start listening to experts and... from Arena Riga... that there are 16 inputs. Yes, we can really organize it, thousands of visitors, and those seven thousand vaccinated people can visit... That's an amazing situation, incredible! I took part once in the sport sub-commission. Well, that's crazy! During the hour, nobody was presented... a name has been given to listen to the coaches for concrete, detailed answers to their sports. No, no solutions were available, no draft laws were submitted in the meantime. What did our children do over the year? ‘ Thanks to “Suplinska and Mr. Znotiņš, they sat on computers, on screens. Think about health? What are we thinking? Twenty-four meters long tennis court... and, no, we cannot organise work. Where are the experts, the epidemiologists... can't count meters. Now you want to impose that you have some sort of capacity, that you have become smarter, that you care for people. I have a feeling, maybe you care about your own rating, about the municipal elections. Maybe I could believe that. What concerns you are talking about if even your dear Re: Baltica prepared data, for example, that in Estonia 50 cases of violation of restrictions have been opened since the beginning of this year - 50! Of these, only 24 have been punished. But what about Latvia? What is your government, your coalition? Over 26 thousand administrative processes have been started during these four months. There's something to be proud of! It's your capacity, it's your result. I am not simply talking about the level of education that you did with your children this year. This is shame and your responsibility. I don't believe in you, in any word, in any of your work. And where did you lose your red lines? Well, young Conservatives, tell me where is your red line with the ZZS? No, no principle, no principle, not least about people, about society. Politics is politics, but the main thing is people. Well, I think it's double. For three years we worked with red lines - not God give, principles are the most important, but now everything is fine. Hockey Championship. Thank you SASKAS, thank you ZZS, we love you, we will work. And Eric Pucen... You still believe that next week, you will present something good for people with the New Conservative Party who wanted to take up your Minister for Economic Affairs? Do you still believe? Thank you. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2256-U49	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the process for men with viewers in the event of the 2021 World Championships”! Please, let's vote! For - 48, for - 40, for - 1. Decision adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda of the sitting has been examined. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. I therefore closed my fifth remote emergency sitting on 20 May this year.
