ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! Let's start the remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 21 January 2021. First of all, on the agenda. Changes tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau The Foreign Affairs Commission asks to exclude from the agenda of the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima, submitted by the Foreign Affairs Commission, the draft decision of the Saeima on the World Hockey Championship for men in 2021. Please enable a section on the procedure. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? Mr Bondara will talk about or against? For shutdown or against shutdown? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Bondar: “I will talk about.” ) So “for” applied to speak Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U2	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very respectable. Highly respected colleagues and highly respected colleagues! I am certainly in favour of this draft decision being excluded from the agenda because, by its very nature, it is no longer relevant. However, I would like to say at the same time that I am in favour of the government considering the hockey championship in Latvia not only to deal with Riga as a possible place where this championship will take place, but also to consider the possibility... Perhaps it is possible to organise in Rezekne; this would be more relevant symbolically than in Riga. And that means... Now we've given you the money... We have contributed funds to the Olympic Centre Rēzekne. We know that the hockey championship takes place in Latvia, we know that it is not just Riga. We know it's all taxpayers' money. Therefore, the request to examine the possibility... a request to both the federation and the government... this part of the championship, which was intended for Belarus... examine the possibility of organising an event in Rezekne. In 2006 Riga did not qualify as the capital of the NATO Summit, but in Riga the Summit took place. I think everything can be done if you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U3	Thank you. Do Members want a vote? None of the Members shall ask for a vote. Consequently, the draft decision is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. On the agenda - reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Vocational Education” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Immigration” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 896/Lp13) transferred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, with responsibility for the Commission. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes the draft law "Amendment to the Law on Immigration" submitted by Mr Judina, Mr Čakša, Ms Kalniņa, Ms Šteina, Mr Voika, Mr Rukšane-Schipčinskas, Mr Krapāne, Mr Možvillo, Mr Gaidan and Ms Lībiņa-Egnere (No. According to the Office of the SRSG on Children and Armed Conflict, he was responsible for recruitment and use of children in Ituri from 2002 to 2003. ‘ Against’ applied to speak to Member Richard Kohl.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U4	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, On the preparation of an amendment to the Immigration Act. It is clear that this issue has already been addressed in some context by the Saeima, the committee responsible, where one vote was and the vote was negative. It is clear that this amendment is more related to the events in the neighbouring country and the repression by its regime, and people are leaving that country because of persecution or other circumstances. Since August last year, Latvia has increased the number of asylum seekers' applications from Belarus each month; as the media reported yesterday, Latvia has decided to grant asylum to 13 Belarusian citizens, while 35 more applications have been examined. It is clear that the primary work on this issue should be carried out by the Latvian security authorities and the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs. Although - according to the current situation - the amendment so far has been largely communicated only in the context of the asylum seekers from Belarus, the draft law is not just about Belarusians. The current regulation of the Immigration Law provides for granting the right to employment without restrictions to a foreigner from third countries who has submitted an application for granting an alternative refugee status in Latvia, if the decision on granting or rejecting the status has not been taken within six months and it has not been due to his fault. The amendment proposes to shorten the time limit set by law for receiving a reply and obtaining a work right to three months. It's a big nuance. Let us remember that these amendments apply to all third-country nationals. The draft law also does not provide a temporary solution to a specific crisis. The current order is not unique. As far as is known, without a status, asylum seekers cannot start their employment relationship, they cannot work in almost any European country (with some exceptions). And such or similar arrangements apply to any foreigner, not only to asylum seekers. Even without speculating on how more unstable and unpredictable our world is likely to become in the coming years, it does not seem wise to cut off time for its own security, for the self-defence of the country by examining, investigating, investigating and investigating everything necessary and possible, let alone a serious migration crisis. I agree with the idea that the most successful socio-economic integration takes place through work: the faster the job begins - the faster you get into the new environment, understand the rules, values, people. However, I do not agree with the idea that the amendment to the Immigration Act is the one that will solve the basic problem. Currently, the deadline set by the law is not even the main problem, because, as the authors of the draft law have repeated several times and as it is stated in the claim, applications are examined within three months in the absolute majority of cases. Moreover, the speed of decision-making should not be an end in itself, because it is not excluded that among aid seekers in Latvia can try to get into, let's say, someone connected with the Belarusian security services. As happened a few months ago, when a former member of the Belarusian Investigation Committee, Andrejs Ostapovičs, appeared here at our border. Can't just open up quickly, make it an end in itself... definitely not on matters such as public security... Our services must be able to assess people applying for asylum, have access to documents, have time to evaluate and investigate. What would be useful? Of course, bureaucracy must be reduced. As we learned a couple of months ago, the main problem lies in the lack of comprehensive and successive information, both online and in embassies and institutions. We see that there are authorities responsible for not pro-actively communicating about the various services and employment opportunities available, for the possibility of applying for a visa issued for humanitarian reasons. The problem is not in the lack of regulation or in the absence of regulation; the problem is in the absence of regulation, in the absence of capacity or in the absence of a default. We also see that our neighbours - Estonia and Lithuania - have maintained this six-month period within the framework of the current crisis. It is not a mechanical attempt to fix something that has not broken at all, but to use a variety of other instruments, for example, to make it much easier to obtain visas. Maybe it is worth starting with it, rather than trying to stick the patches to the foot when the wound is on the forehead. Colleagues, I call for this draft law not to be passed on to the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U5	Andrey Judin has applied for a speech about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U6	Good morning, colleagues! The substance of the question. Members made a proposal to amend Article 9 of the Immigration Act. According to Article 9, now, if a person is seeking refuge... may work if his application has not been examined within a period of six months. So if the application has been examined within six months, he will have the right to work legally and will be able to work. What the applicants offer - shorten this time to three months. This is in no way related to the security threat that Mr Cole has just spoken about. Our proposal is not to shorten the probationary period, so it will still be possible to work; we are talking only about the right to work. If a person asks for refugee status, the person is sitting in Mucenieki, receiving three euros every day and waiting for his... the decision, and that is what it will be. Of course, he may also live somewhere else, but above all, he is waiting for a decision. The question is, is it good that he should not work for up to six months? In our opinion, if a person is located in Latvia, he would also have the right to work; moreover, I emphasize - to work legally. We want people who are willing to work, let them do it. It does not endanger safety, because in both cases whether he works or not, this person is in Latvia. And I think it would be wrong to call on the PMLP right now to reduce the safety standard, and we are not doing that either. When it comes to foreign countries, it's not like Mr. Cole told us all. There are countries where a person who has arrived to a particular country can start working right away. There are countries where one month is to wait; there are three months; there are six months - there are different practices. I am referring to the European Union. And when we talk about threats, I think it is a pity that Mr Kola did not mention the number of people we are talking about. There are no data yet for 2020, but in 2019 178 people applied for this status; 188 or 186 were in 2018. Some of them would like to work. So, in principle, we are talking about a situation where some 13 people would be allowed to work. This issue, of course, was raised in relation to Belarus, but it is a principle. What is the problem, what is it if a person does not sit and wait to decide his destiny, but works - works legally? Moreover, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, if he is allowed to work after three months, this does not mean that he will have the right to stay in Latvia immediately, regardless of the decision taken. If the PMLP finds that the individual cannot be granted either refugee status or subsidiary status, despite being in employment, he will have to leave. So: after three months he will start working; if he will have the status, he will continue his job, but if he will not have the status granted, he will go to another country. We can help these people. We can make it possible for these people to earn legal money, because the three euro is not a big sum, and I doubt very much that our parties are prepared to speak and to have a serious debate about the increase in the amount of the allowance. So if we can't give more, maybe we'll let people work? In this step, there is a lot of symbolism, because we must not just talk about aid to Belarus and other countries; sometimes something needs to be done. I call for support to be given to the referral of the relevant draft law to the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U7	One Member has spoken for, one against. Let's vote. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on Immigration (No. 901/Lp13) transfer to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! For - 56, for - 13, for - 5. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Procurement of Public Service Providers” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Saeima Election Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda - referral of draft laws to commissions and first reading. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Voters’ Register” submitted by the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. And we start first reading of the bill. On behalf of the Commission, Ms Inga Goldberga.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U8	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! The Commission of State Administration and Local Government in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, the Central Electoral Commission, the Administration of Citizenship and Migration Affairs and the Legal Bureau of the Saeima has prepared a draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Voters’ Register”. The project was prepared in connection with the amendments of 17 December 2020 to the Election Law of the City Council and District Council of the Republic, which provides for the right of voters residing abroad to participate in municipal elections by voting by post. Amendments to the Law on the Voters' Register are technical amendments and they are necessary given that in municipal elections the Central Electoral Commission will make a note in the Voters' Register about the voter's application to participate in the respective elections by post, and will include the voter's e-mail address, to which documents for voting by post shall be sent. These amendments must enter into force at the latest on the day... as amended on 17 December 2020... according to the deadline set by the municipal electoral law, the voter may apply for voting by post. In particular, a voter may apply for a postal vote 70 days before the day of elections, but not later than 42 days before the day of elections. The voter will therefore be able to apply by post as from 27 March 2021. Colleagues! In view of this, the Commission requests that the draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U9	Thank you. So let us vote in favour of declaring the draft law urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Voters’ Register” as urgent! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U10	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U11	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Voters' Register at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has therefore been approved. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U12	The deadline for submitting proposals is 26 January this year. And consideration at the Saeima sitting - 11 February 2021.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U13	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for examining the proposals - 26 January this year - at the sitting of the Saeima - on 11 February this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media”. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media” presented by the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Regina Ločmele, Member of the European Parliament, has applied to speak against’. ( Pause) So the Member is not in the system. Let's just wait a minute. ( Pause) There is news that the Member is not connected at all today. Members have asked for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media” to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 70, for - 16, for - 4. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. And let's look at it at first reading. Member Artus Kaimiņš on behalf of the commission responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U14	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, dear colleagues! We examine the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media” (No. 900/Lp13). The Human Rights and Public Affairs Commission has prepared for first reading draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media”. The draft law provides the National Electronic Media Council with the right to assess the compliance of the activities of electronic media not only with the requirements of the Law on Electronic Media, but also with other regulatory enactments regulating the electronic media sector. In order to promote competition between electronic media and to strengthen the responsibility of broadcasters to use limited public resources (i.e. radio frequencies), the period for the authorisation of broadcasting has been reduced from 10 to six years. At the end of the authorisation period for electronic media broadcasting, the NAP shall provide for the right to assess the activities of electronic media during the duration of the previous authorisation for broadcasting before a new authorisation for broadcasting is granted. It is important to emphasise that in case the electronic media will have acted in compliance with the regulatory requirements of the media sector and security interests of the Latvian information space during the period of the broadcasting authorisation, without jeopardising state security or public order, NEPL will take a decision to issue a new broadcasting authorisation to the electronic media without a competition. If the electronic media so choose, they will also be able to change the programme-based audio-language into the national language during the duration of the broadcasting authorisation. At the same time, it will not affect electronic media, which is already based on a foreign language. The National Electronic Media Council, the Ministry of Culture, the Latvian Broadcasting Association and the Latvian Association of Commercial Radio Stations were involved in the drafting of the law. A number of common denominators were reached during the discussions, but there is no consensus on certain issues and solutions are being sought in the preparation of the proposals for the second reading. Colleagues, it is true that we have been talking about it for a long time in the Commission, have formed working groups, round tables, and the industry, as well as professionals in the industry, have been involved, there have also been incompatibilitys of opinion, but all this is not yet on stone, and at second reading we are really waiting... we are looking forward to a second reading of the proposals. But in any case, on behalf of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, I am asking for support for the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media at first reading. Thank you. ( Pause) I can hear (A sound break.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U15	We can't hear and see. Please the microphone member Artus Neminis again. There were some disruptions here in your speech, Mr. Neminis. ( Pause) Colleagues, there is a need for a technical break of 15 minutes. So it's a break until 9:45 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U16	Dear colleagues, Let us continue with the work after the technical break. Consequently, the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media" is on the agenda. Mr President, I call on you to repeat once again, on behalf of the Commission - but indeed on behalf of the Commission - an explanation of this draft law for first reading. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U17	Good morning, colleagues! I'll try briefly. So we are working on the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media". As rapporteur on behalf of the Commission, I will be brief, Mrs Mūrniece, on what the draft law provides. In order to promote competition between electronic media and to strengthen the responsibility of broadcasters to use limited public resources - radio frequencies - the deadline for issuing broadcasting authorisations has been reduced from 10 to six years. Here's the question... and the draft law concerns radio frequencies, radio re-certification, so to say when the radio station is... when the authorisation for the use of radio frequencies is not automatically updated. Radio frequencies belong to the state of Latvia and are the property of the state, and this draft law also provides for greater rights to regulate the NEP with security authorities... if there are any potential infringements, regulate the use of the frequency. So this is the first reading, and the Commission will very much look forward to the second reading. The round tables were also created for this draft law... conversation. The NEPLP itself, the Ministry of Culture, the Association of Latvian Radio Organizations and the Association of Latvian Commercial Radio Stations participated in the drafting of this law. The debate has not yet ended, there have been, and there will be, a thread-breaking, and our commission will have it. That is why, on behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, I am asking for support for the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media at first reading, then for these cardinal changes I mentioned at second reading - from 10 years to six, perhaps eight... and what checks and significant violations are possible for radio stations, in order not to renew or take away the permission of the station to use the Latvian state frequency. That would be short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U18	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I generally support the aim of the applicants to organise the renewal process of the broadcasting authorisation, because there are indeed quite significant problems there. First of all, the possibility of actually selling a radio station should be prevented... what is, unfortunately, happening now. However, the proposed amendments, in my view, are not suitable for achieving this objective. I believe that the proposed funds are disproportionate... provides for a disproportionate interference in the conduct of the private operator and thus allows for an actual disproportionate impact on competition in this re-allocation of the market, simply to be said. Firstly, the principle of legitimate expectations. As we know, this market is not easy at all - requires long-term planning, quite serious investment - and the regulation that exists today actually ensures that, if a radio station operates in accordance with the law and under the terms of its licence, the owners can count on the fact that their activities will be guaranteed. The proposed amendments abolish this procedure because, in fact, if the amendments are adopted, this is absolutely possible: the radio station is functioning normally, there are no problems, everything is fine, but the broadcasting authorisation is not renewed, and the frequency is returned to someone else. I think that these amendments, however, should be examined very carefully from the point of view of the principle of legitimate expectations. Secondly. A concrete example. The amendments provide that the renewal of the licence should be accompanied by an assessment of the information provided by the national authorities on the threat to public security posed by the operation of the electronic media or a serious threat to public policy or security. It is as if everything is right there, but the laws already in force state that it must be done on a permanent basis. Where the operation of the electronic media constitutes a threat to national security or public order, the Council shall act at a time without waiting for the renewal of the broadcasting authorisation to be considered. All the possibilities, well, at least in the law... the law provides for the Council. Additional funds have also been allocated. We know that we have repeatedly allocated additional funds to the monitoring unit and so on. Since I do not see any need to repeat this procedure, which must be dealt with on a permanent basis, it is precisely at the time of the review of the renewal of the broadcasting authorisation. So this is an absolutely unnecessary, bureaucratic procedure, and there may also be questions - why was this provision included? Does that mean that the Council will now allow it to go on with its functions - constantly controlling possible threats to national security and public order? There are also some questions concerning the proposed conditions for amending the broadcasting language. I know that there is one particular situation where a radio station wants to change its broadcasting language - from minority language to national language. Well, to adapt the law to each specific situation is not a good practice. And I really don't know... I agree that the approach must be more flexible, that more freedom must be given to broadcasters, also with regard to the choice of the language of the broadcast, but I do not really know why a strong radio station, which is basically broadcast in the national language, also wants to offer broadcasts to the Russian-speaking audience. In my view, this is very important. We are talking a lot about communication problems with the Russian-speaking audience, and why not allow those broadcasters who are already operating quite effectively in the Latvian market... In my view, these restrictions are, in fact, simply beneficial for Russian broadcasters. Once again, we voluntarily give our market share to Russia, because given the current situation, the information war and so on, I can see some security threats in this particular case. In my view, these amendments are generally in the right direction, but if too far away... And I cannot support them under this option. I will therefore abstain from voting in favour. Indeed, I agree with Mr Kaimiņš that we had a rather intense discussion, a number of arguments were made both in favour and against, but in general, I do not feel that the sector is in favour of these amendments. And I think you should listen to the mindset of the sector. If these amendments are to be supported at first reading, I hope, however, that a meaningful discussion, as well as Mr Kaimiņa said, will take place before the second and third readings, and we must, in the end, be able to sort out this matter in order not to hinder the free development and competitiveness of this market, not only in Latvia, but also in Europe, because globalisation is taking place and we must also think about the competitiveness of our broadcasters at European level. Consequently, disproportionate restrictions should not be imposed. I call for these amendments not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U20	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U21	Good morning, colleagues! First of all, I wanted to tell you why I was unable to take part in the examination of this draft law when the question of handing over this draft law to the commission was to be decided upon. When I was at the Saeima House, I was faced with the fact that I couldn't enter the e-Saeima system because I don't have an Internet connection. I didn't have 15 minutes of Internet connection, and only with the help of an IT specialist I managed to get into the system. I am grateful for this to the IT section of the Saeima. But at the moment, I would like to express my concern about the substance of this draft law and to point out another aspect that I have very much concern about the real aims of moving this draft law forward. First of all, for almost 15 years, I was a radio player as a multiple commercial radio producer. I work on “RADIO SWH+”, several other radio stations – “ TOPRADIO”... The last project I took part in was RADIO RETRO FM. I will therefore tell you what I know from practice and from multiple contact with the activities of the NAP. The keywords in this draft law would be indeed, as Mr Cilevič said, "market redistribution". Thank you to Mr Kaimiņš, who said that it is about national security concerns and that radio frequencies - because all commercial radio stations in the FM range - are really public property. But what is happening in reality? In reality, this state property is used for commercial purposes not only to earn its daily bread by selling advertising, but also to earn a very large amount of money, up to several million, when selling licences with the possibility to broadcast on a given frequency. This practice has been in existence since the mid-1990s. And I think it would be a very valuable study for our parliamentary commission exactly who has earned and how much money in these years, selling the opportunity to broadcast on the state-owned frequency. I think that moving these amendments is also due to the fact that someone wants to re-allocate this very profitable market, someone wants to re-allocate this very influential market, just when municipal elections are expected this year and next year - parliamentary elections. There is a fight for some groupings to maintain their monopoly and the opportunity to broadcast not only in Latvian, state language, but also in Russian. If you study this market share, you will notice that only a few players have so-called packages - an opportunity to sell the ad immediately at both the Latvian radio station and the Russian radio station. The answer to why these amendments are currently being directed could be found by looking at who will soon end the licence and then by following who will get this frequency. How does this really happen? Three violations! If a radio station reaches three infringements within a given period of time, it could be deprived of frequency. With the subtraction of the frequency, the possibility to sell this licence together with SIA, which serves this frequency, will also be deprived because the radio is a very specific product. The radio station itself, the program, the creative people involved in the production of the program, even the devices that are being broadcast, actually costs only a small amount of money. The highest value is precisely its license and the ability to broadcast at the prescribed frequency. What I am talking about is that I know this from practice and I call on the members of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs to be very, very careful not to participate in the lobby of certain economic operators, because, unfortunately, the interests of certain economic operators are covered by a cover called "Secure for State security". I am concerned that this cover will also be used to achieve certain political objectives. Please refrain from or vote against further progress of this draft law before receiving absolute support for the specific amendments to the law by the participants in the radio sector, because they already know what the story is about. My concerns are absolutely justified, and I will continue to follow developments myself, because what is happening is absolutely unacceptable, both for national security and for the preservation of the interests of a potential audience. As Members, we cannot support amendments that cover such actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U22	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U23	Yes, thank you to the previous speakers. Thanks to Boris Cilevič and Regina Lochmele. Both spoke very much indeed, perhaps with dramatic truth. That's my personal opinion. It only increases my personal responsibility for this bill. So that there can be no suspicion that Mrs Ločmele just said, with even more fear of this bill, I can say... I can promise you that no draft political law will be brought forward by the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs in the form that has just been perhaps baffled. But now, about the facts. That's it, colleagues, that right now... This year, 18 stations that broadcast in FM waves end their license. And it needs to be strengthened. It is simply a fact, and that is it. I do not want to talk about some kind of market division, redistribution and so on. This is the first reading, and here, too, Boris Cilevičs, a member of the Commission, agreed that this system should be put in order. For the fact that... Colleagues, I also wanted to mention the fact that the industry, the Association of Latvian Broadcasting Organisations, is involved in the discussion of the draft law. That's why I said it... These dispute apples were two: the first is the security of the state, so that it is not cast as such everywhere before, and the second was the term of the license. Now it is 10 years and automatic reconfirmation is taking place, then you can send another and more. It's offered here for six years. They've been working on their own... with your... in their discussions with the NEPLP with... Even at Mr. Kučinski's... Mr Kučinska's Commission, the National Security Commission, has had a debate on this and they have reached the number 6. We may still be able to change to seven... seven years, maybe eight years. But what did I mean? So Boris referred to that change of language. At the moment, if a licence is issued, let's take Russian to a radio station, they don't want to send it in Latvian, because they have a license in Russian. Here it is offered that they can switch to Latvian, state language. Yes, it's true if he has been given a license in Latvian, he can't switch to Russian, that is. Go on. Regina rightly mentioned the fact that there are people in the country, I have heard it myself... In my opinion, there is no need to carry out any research into the sale of FM frequencies. Somewhere at the end of the ear I heard, I think I didn't work in the parliament yet, some six years ago, there were 100,000 euros, or even lats, yes, something like that. But all this is inside this bill to sort this thing out. The fact that there must be an infringement - but this is not about a simple infringement - is about a serious infringement. This does not mean that if a radio station releases a song with harsh words, it is immediately a violation, the NEPLP Monitoring Centre records it and immediately takes a license to them. No, no. There must be a serious infringement here, which has caused serious damage, which has also been specifically addressed by law. We asked whether, in general, the legal configuration for the word "essential"... whether there really is something like that, and from the debates at the Legal Bureau and also from the broadcaster, we realized that, yes, everything is good there, with the word “essential”... ‘significant damage’ we can work on. Well, here, but that Members have called for no support, no progress, and they also point out that there are problems, so how will we deal with that matter? I can promise you that we will not allow the political bill to move forward. That's why I'm asking for proposals... and also to take part in the debate. The round table with the industry involved is precisely - it is open, it is happening, the debate is taking place, the industry is currently watching this debate, and we are marking these points here. Well, that's my personal view of... Because I can't imagine that we're making any double... such a double check that any broadcaster... Let's say, the radio station owner... Let's say he takes a license for six years, he needs to understand how to make his business model, or maybe he needs eight years, maybe he needs seven years, but surely five years are not enough, because there's to invest and develop all and... Yes, colleagues, this is the first reading. I really call on you to support this draft law, and come, with your proposals, to the Commission - we are debating, talking and creating a good, coherent draft law - because there are both sides of the law right here and there are some mushrooms that we need to wipe out. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U24	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U25	Good morning, honourable Members. Dear President, I took the floor just to confirm that nobody was working seriously with this draft law. Mr. Neighbour has already mentioned that this is also being looked at by the National Security Commission. If I now have to answer the question whether the draft law is now ready to be adopted at final reading, then the clear answer is 'no' because it still needs to be looked at from all sides. Usually, let us say, one of the greatest mistakes is to look at the fact that everything is going on precisely and smoothly - just as it has been put into the bill, and all of us are doing it honestly, but we must always imitate the situation that someone wants to do something wrong or wants to do something, either, whatever the time of the biggest discussion was... Another remark: from the original version by which the NEPLP came, there is almost nothing left here. Indeed, having worked with the draft law is enough, it has been assessed. And what we have left for the second reading is to specify the time section in which... to avoid being able to rush in some way, suddenly say that someone has worked badly, so he must go to a new contest or he will be removed from the license. All of this must be clear rules, and we will also be discussing the industry in the same way so as not to leave any tails. However, I would also like to encourage the draft law at first reading to be supported and then all to contribute, if possible, and to eliminate any concerns, if they still exist, because it is not to be denied that the procedure itself needs to be normalised. As a businessman ever got an opportunity automatically from year to year... We know what market was there: one buys five licences and then sells one, and so on. Well, I hope that those times are gone and they will no longer be, but our role as legislator is also to make it impossible. I therefore call for further support and further work at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U26	The name of Member Regina Lochmele for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U27	Thank you to Mr Kaimiņš and Mr Kučinska, who wanted to clarify the current situation and the context in which this draft law was to be drawn up. I wanted to clarify some aspects. First of all, Mr Kaimiņš, I could tell you that the 100 thousand euros or lats you have named are not true, because, as I know, the cheapest radio station sold in these years cost almost 300 thousand euros, and the biggest purchase in this sector was around four million euros. Once again, it sells not frequencies, but sells SIA, which increases market value 100 times only because the specific merchant wins the competition for the specified frequency, especially if this merchant owns not one frequency, but several and has the possibility to create advertising sales packages that are much more advantageous to sell than if you only operate with one frequency. And it can be pointed out that in this market, it is not the businessmen who could be considered a threat to the security of Latvia, because they belong to a foreign businessman, but the local Latvian businessmen who consider this market to be really very profitable, because rarely you can find a business area where, by investing a small amount of money plus a political lobby, you can count on the fact that in your hands there will be a product that can really be sold for a very large amount of money. Why did I call for a refusal to move this particular draft law forward? It is precisely because this draft law was drafted by the commission responsible, which was obliged to carefully evaluate the situation in the sector, carry out research and at least find out what the situation was, not only this year or last year, but some particular period of history of the radio sector, and prepare a draft law that would really help to regularise the situation in this sector. What is being prepared at the moment is, in my opinion, something very specific and nothing else that I said during my first speech, I cannot say at the moment. It seems that this draft law is being developed to achieve certain specific objectives, but it does not give the impression that the draft law has really gone into the current situation. I call for this draft law not to be directed and for the commission to be responsible: to draw up an alternative law that would really be justified. Another wonder to me is why a similar draft law was not drafted by the Ministry of Culture (which is currently in the area of responsibility of the National Association), which has a whole chapter with people who receive salaries to study the media situation in order to prepare national policies for development and organisation of this area. And I am really surprised, I do not understand why we are still talking about starting with the area, but the draft law does not know why it is being prepared from the commission, not from the responsible ministry, which is responsible for public media policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U28	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U29	Yeah, colleagues. Thank you to Mrs Ločmele for her second debate. In this bill, which entered the commission's agenda, as Mr Kučinska said, few remained from the original version and were changed... This bill took part, I will remind you again, Ministry of Culture, Association of Latvian Radio Organizations, Association of Latvian Commercial Radio Stations, Legal Bureau of the Saeima, NEPLP and two parliamentary committees. And I would like colleagues to support this draft law at first reading so that we... You too, Mrs Ločmele, - Boris Cilevičs is already on the commission - come to the commission, please! We plan and make a good, high-quality law! Thank you, colleagues. Please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U30	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media! Please, let's vote! For - 70, for - 6, for - 17. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U31	Yeah, colleagues. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U32	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 11 February this year. So on the agenda - reports from the Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications has submitted a draft decision – own-initiative proposal “On the way forward of the 11 710 Latvian citizens’ collective application “On state-funded reconstruction operations for breast cancer patients”. Please enable... the section of the procedure is turned on. Are Members opposed to examining this own-initiative proposal at this parliamentary sitting? Members shall not object. So we can look at the draft decision. On behalf of the commission responsible - Member Ilmars Dūritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U33	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. High honourable Members! Today I am delegated to report on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application on the draft decision discussed at the meeting of 13 January “On the way forward of the collective application of 11 710 Latvian citizens “On State-funded reconstruction operations in breast cancer patients””. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications had a rather wide discussion on this issue, representatives of the Ministry of Health were also invited. Members of the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Applications decided to refer this collective application to the Committee on Social and Labour Affairs for further consideration. I ask Members to support this draft decision of the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Applications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U34	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the 11 710th Latvian citizens’ collective application “On state-funded reconstruction operations for breast cancer patients”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 95, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Rittvars Jansons from the Saeima Legal Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Ritvars Jansons from the Saeima Legal Commission! Please, let's vote! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Rittvars Jansons to the Saeima Education, Culture and Science Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Ritvars Jansons to the Saeima Education, Culture and Science Commission! Please, let's vote! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Ulda Plantis from the Legal Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Ulda Augulis from the Legal Commission! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Member Ulda Plantis to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Member Ulda Augulis to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Member Edgars Tatars to the Legal Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Member Edgars Tatars to the Legal Commission! Please, let's vote! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Member Edgars Tatars to the European Affairs Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Mr Edgars Tatars to the European Affairs Commission! Please, let's vote! No, 94, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision on the withdrawal of Ms Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima from the Commission of Petitions. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Ms Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima, from the Commission for Petitions! Please, let's vote! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Marija Golubeva to the National Security Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Marija Golubeva, Member of the Saeima, to the National Security Commission! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of the Saeima member Gata Zamura to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima member, Gata Zamura, to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Please, let's vote! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of the Saeima member, Gata Zamura, to the Committee on Petitions. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima member, Gata Zamura, to the Committee on Petitions! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision on the approval of Edgars Tatars, Deputy Permanent Representative of the Latvian Delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of Mr Edgars Tatars, Deputy Permanent Representative of the Latvian Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Colleagues, it's time for a break. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U35	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the order of the day - draft decision “On approval of the Higher Education Council”. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Jānis Vucāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U36	Madam President, I am very respectful of you. Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U37	We can't hear it, Mr. Wuzan! ( Pause) Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U38	You hear me?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U39	Yeah, yeah. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U40	The Commission for Education, Culture and Science has dealt with the issue... and prepared draft decision “On approval of the Council for Higher Education”. Functions of the Higher Education Council... The procedure for establishing the Council shall be laid down in Article 66 of Chapter IX of the Law on Higher Education “Procedures for the Establishment of the Council for Higher Education”. This article states that the Council shall be approved by the Saeima as 13 members, on a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science. Article 68 of the Law “The term of office of the members of the higher education council” provides that the term of office of the members of the council is four years; except for students’ representatives of the council – their term of office is two years. The composition of the Higher Education Council - full composition - has been approved for the last time on 29 November 2016 and started its activities on 22 December 2016. This means that the term of office of this Council expired on 21 December 2020, about a month ago. The draft decision of the Ministry and discussed by the Commission is intended to approve the Higher Education Council as follows: Baiba Rivža - Delegated Representative of the Latvian Academy of Sciences; Arturs Zeps - Delegated Representative of the Latvian University Association; Andris Teikmanis - Delegated Representative of the Latvian Association of University of Art; Jeļena Vediščeva - Delegated Representative of the Latvian Association of Education Managers; Anna Altikova - Delegated Representative of the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry; Inara Upmale - Delegated Representative of the Latvian Association of Colleges of Sciences; Kristīne Carjova - Delegated Representative of the Latvian Council of Directors; Tatjana Volkova - Delegated Representative of the Latvian Association of University Professors; Aigars Laizāns - Delegated Representative of the Latvian Employers' Confederation; Inga Vanaga - Delegated Representative of the Latvian Association of Education and Science; Katrīna Sproģe - Delegated Representative of the Latvian Association of Students; Aldis Baumanis - Delegated Representative of the Association of Private Universities. The Council also includes the Minister of Education and Science, according to the position to be held (ex-officio). The Saeima shall have the right to decide whether to vote in favour of the composition of this Board by a single vote or to divide the vote separately for one of those representatives. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science invites colleagues, the Saeima, to vote in favour of this composition as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U41	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Let's vote by common list. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the approval of the Council for Higher Education”! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, Let's go. The next item on the agenda is the examination of Members' requests. Members Edgars Tavars, Gundars Dauge, Jānis Dūklavs, Maris Kučinskis, Raimonds Bergmanis, Janīna Jalinska, Uldis Augulis, Viktors Valainis, Armands Krauze and Jānis Vucāns have submitted a request to the Saeima Bureau to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Arturs Toms Plšs, “On the flow of oil into the Baltic Sea from the Being Angel oil terminal and the calculation of environmental damage”. The applicants have asked for a statement of reasons. Please, Member Edgar Tavar...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U42	Dear colleagues, A month will soon have passed since the Beegel oil terminal flowed into the Baltic Sea significant amount of oil, which soon also reached the coast of Latvia. There is no clear information about the extent of environmental damage, nor about compensation from Lithuania to this day, so together with other colleagues from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union I have submitted... We have submitted a request to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Arturs Tom Ples, in which we ask to explain the situation regarding the oil spills of the Bungelian terminal and the recovery of adequate compensation. When information appeared in the mass media that on December 28, last year in Lithuania, we warned the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development about its passive work, as the filling pipeline was disconnected. The reaction of Minister Arturs Tomas Plešs at the moment when such a major ecological disaster occurred in the Baltics, as well as the explanation of the state-of-the-art situation from the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and the State Environmental Service under its authority, was not sufficiently operational. This gives us cause for concern that the Latvian side is unable to respond adequately, quickly in the event of such an ecological disaster. We are concerned about the impact on the Baltic Sea ecosystem after the oil spill from the Beegel oil terminal and are interested in the methodology for calculating the environmental damage, as well as paying for the environmental damage caused to the environment and the state of Latvia in relation to the control, prevention and recovery of this pollution. We therefore call on Minister Artūra Toms Plētes to provide immediate answers to the following questions. What are the official findings of the total oil spills from the Beegel oil terminal in the Baltic Sea? What amount was collected from oil spilled, and what remained in the Baltic Sea? What was the action of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and the State Environmental Service under its responsibility when receiving information about the ecological disaster in the Baltic Sea? What is the methodology for calculating environmental damage and when could the final calculation be ready? Will the State of Latvia make its calculation or rely on the data provided by the Lithuanian side? Is it planned that the Republic of Lithuania will bear the full cost to the State of Latvia for the study, investigation, consequence prevention and environmental recovery of this environmental accident? Are measures planned to improve transnational communication and action to address the problems of the Baltic Sea region among the Baltic Sea countries? And finally, what has been the personal action of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development to prevent or reduce environmental pollution in Latvia in this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U43	Thank you. This request shall be submitted to the Board of Appeal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Saeima. Go on. On the agenda is a request from Members Ivars Zariņa, Vitaly Orlova, Arthur Rubika, Edgars Kucina, Regina Lochmeles, Inga Goldberga, Valeria Agešina, Ivana Klementyeva, Jānis Tutina and Ivana Ribakova to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On procurement of inappropriate respiratory equipment from SIA “TITLED”, on the adoption of the relevant decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, on the use of respiratory equipment and on late testing of respiratory equipment in an accredited laboratory”. On behalf of the Commission, Ivars Puga, Member. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U44	Welcome, colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen! The request was examined by Members Ivars Zariņa, Vitaly Orlova, Arthur Rubika, Edgars Kucina, Regina Lochmeles, Inga Goldbergas, Valeria Agešina, Ivana Klementjeva, Jānis Tutina and Ivana Ribakova. 39/P13), document No. 3137 and by voting (5 for, 10 against) admitted that Members' request should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U45	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U46	Hello, colleagues! This request... This request, colleagues, is a testimony... We will gain some assurances of power, incompetentness and lenientness when we deal with this request today. That is, this demand is about this legendary... the purchase by the government of personal protective equipment - respiratory and mask - from TITTED in the spring of last year. They were almost a million respiratory units, which, later - now, six months later - turned out to be in fact invalid. What, then, is this demand really about? Let me explain these details. On 9 April, the government concluded a supply agreement for almost one million respirators, which had to be delivered within 14 days, and EUR 2.9 was paid for each of them. Do you think that the government chose one of the suppliers of medical goods? No, the government chose a company whose main business is that it is an advertising agency. Did this company deliver these respirators within 14 days? No, it didn't deliver them. The Ministry of Defence therefore extended this delivery until 5 May. The cargo arrived at customs on 1 May, but the Consumer Centre refused to accept it because the supplier could not prove that the goods to be supplied were in conformity with certain standards. A Chinese accredited body was submitted... a test report was submitted which... was issued to a completely different producer than that indicated on the product. On 11 May our (now - the former) health minister Ilze Viņķele announced that there is only one-and-a-half day in the reserves for respiratory treatment institutions, but next day, the Prime Minister announced at a press conference after a government meeting that the documents of origin were not what they should be. We decided that however, they have been verified; we found that nature has been tested in Latvia; they correspond to what it should be - these are the names of Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš. And so, on 12 May, following a report by the Minister of Defence Pabrik, who is being examined in a closed session, the Government decides to accept the load by applying a simplified quality check on the goods. It's still not a real explanation - what that is... The Consumer Centre itself, which later... was forced to accept this... Or it wasn't clear... It is still unclear what exactly they were about the documents and what this centre has actually accepted. What we know... later... The next step is a sudden change of 14 May... the contract followed by the supply of those goods. There appear quite another producer, quite another product, other documents that... It is obvious that they are added... in general, perhaps from other transactions, because they are of different quality, with different codes, but none of them make responsible officials think that this procurement would be in some way... that something is wrong with it. On the contrary, we are told that everything is fine. If you remember, we looked at this story... We started looking at last summer... on this procurement. Then we were told with foam on our lips - no, it's all right, it's all right. What we've found now, six months later, is it turns out that this purchase... these purchased respiratory equipment - a million respiratory equipment - have not been of adequate quality. So, with this request, we wanted to find out what the real conditions for this purchase are. Why was such an exclusive procurement necessary, under exactly the same conditions, at such an exclusive price, and why was that decision to be taken by circumventing the requirements of the law? And have the responsible officials really done all they need to do so in the public interest, not in the interest of any small groups of persons? We asked for the following things to be clarified... I will also tell you immediately what we have really found in this request. First of all, we wanted to know whether there was a need to buy so many respiratory equipment and exactly from this dealer. We asked for information on how much has left this respirator. We've got information that of these million respirators, almost a million respirators, almost half, at least 430 thousand respirators, have still not been used - after half a year. And these are very significant numbers. What do they prove? They prove that, in fact, the government hastened to buy inappropriately large amounts of these respirators, because half a year later, half of the respirators were not used. Go on. We asked for information... If Mrs. Viņķele said that we don't have the balance in the hospitals... all these individual remedies, we wanted to make sure that there was a real demand for all these... required... the means of protection and how much was left... What was the residue? Neither do we have this information, nor has it been submitted. Only part of it has been avoided, but nothing has been said about what the real balances in hospitals were. Why? Because if this situation really was what we're told about, there was no problem with submitting all this information. So we don't know how real those balances were or how really needed... it would have been necessary to make adequate savings, but from real facts we can see that the purchase was much more than it was necessary. Go on. There is also a valid question as to why it was the company ‘TIPTED’ that had to buy these respiratory equipment and at such a price. We requested information on what alternatives have been. If it really is the best solution, the only and the most correct one, then there would have been no problem with this information. The Ministry of Defence has also avoided submitting this information, and we are still - still! - we can only rely on empty words that there has not been a better solution. However, these other solutions, although we know very well that they have been (and this has also been clarified by investigating journalists!) , no reason to avoid submitting and providing this information. Go on. We asked him how sick he was... Illnesses at the time of these respiratory symptoms. These respirators were used by medical staff - our people who are fighting this plague in front of the front lines. What do we see? We see that the sick have been in hundreds of total. We had asked for information on each particular institution to be submitted, because in this way we could follow up on whether or not these respirators had been guilty. This information has also been avoided by the responsible authorities. In essence, colleagues, what we see - we can see that these facts show that officials have not done their duties properly - there is no evidence that they have acted in the public interest. No information which might confirm or deny it shall be submitted. Colleagues, all this points to the fact that this would be justified - today to support this request and to make Krišjānis Kariņš finally to his ministers... become a real prime minister and ask their ministers to answer these questions and submit all the information requested in order to dispel any concerns that this procurement has been made, not by taking care of society, but by taking advantage of this emergency situation in order to obtain an unjustified benefit for the people of a narrow group of persons. I think this is very important, because now we see that those who have made these purchases are the same (the Sound Break.) ... How will they be able to ensure a high-quality organisation of vaccination? And here I appeal to my colleagues who came here, in the Saeima, to change something, to be responsible, to prevent the permissiveness of power. You will now be able to confirm this with your vote. I am addressing my colleagues from the New Conservative Party first of all. I call on you to support this request, because it is your votes that will be decisive in deciding what will really be with this request - whether or not we continue to examine it further in the Saeima. I invite you to support this request and prove that you are not there now... so just to cover each other's aphers. I call for support for the request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U47	I closed the debate. Please! Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U48	Yeah... No, there is nothing to add on behalf of the Commission, but I would remind you that Members' request was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U49	Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivara Zariņa, Vitaly Orlova, Arthur Rubika, Edgara Kucina, Regina Lochmeles, Inga Goldberga, Valeria Agešina, Ivana Klementjeva, Jānis Tutina and Ivana Ribakova request to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On procurement of inappropriate respiratory equipment from SIA “TITLED”, on the adoption of the relevant decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, on the use of respiratory equipment and on late testing of respiratory equipment in an accredited laboratory”! Please, let's vote! On - 32, against - 52, refraining from - 4. The request was rejected. The next item on our agenda is the "Provision of draft legislation". Draft law “Amendments to the Housing Property Law”, third reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Eriks Pucens. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U50	Hello, colleagues! The National Administration and Municipal Commission worked with the draft law “Amendments to the Housing Property Law” before the third reading. No proposals were submitted to the Commission. The draft law was examined and supported by the Commission at third reading at the Saeima. I call for support for the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U51	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Housing Property Law” in the third, final, reading! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Energy Act’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Arthur Rubik. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U52	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Energy Act”, document No. 3435. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law before the third reading and received two proposals. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is partly supported and included in 2. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U53	Members do not object to 1. - the proposal by the Legal Office, which has been partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U54	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U55	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U56	On behalf of the Commission, please support this draft law at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U57	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law "Amendments to the Energy Act" in the third, final, final reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law on support for the European Anti-Fraud Office, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhena‐Beeken. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U58	Hello, honourable chair and colleagues! The draft law on support for the European Anti-Fraud Office was discussed at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. One proposal was received at the third reading. This is the proposal of Minister for Finance Reira regarding the editorial clarification of Article 4, first paragraph, point 3 of the draft law. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U59	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U60	The Commission examined the draft law and generally supported its reading at the third reading of the Saeima. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U61	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote on the third, final reading of the draft law on support for the European Anti-Fraud Office. Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft Act Amending the Law on Credit Institutions, third reading. The draft law is also referred to by Member Iveta Benhena-Beeken, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax). Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U62	Draft law on ‘Amendment to the Law on Credit Institutions’ is related to the previous one. The Commission received one proposal from the Minister of Justice, Bordan, for the third reading: proposal 1. It was partly supported and clarified and created 2. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U63	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U64	2. - the proposal of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, which provides for a procedure for requesting video and photo material from ATMs... Operational... or for the exercise of criminal activities based on the request of officials. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U65	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U66	The Commission generally supported the revision of the draft law on Credit Institutions Act at the third, final, reading session of the Saeima. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U67	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Credit Institutions” in the third, final, reading! Please, let's vote! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to the Account Register Act”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhena‐Beeken. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U68	The draft law ‘Amendment to the Account Register Act’ is related to two previous ones. The budget and financial (tax) commission looked at it before the third reading. No proposals were submitted for the third reading. The Commission assessed the draft law ‘Amendment to the Account Register Act’ and generally supported its reading at the third reading of the Saeima. I call on you fellow Members to support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U69	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Account Register Law” in the third, final, final, reading! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Funded Pensions”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Lubova Švecova. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U70	Yeah, thank you. Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Funded Pensions” (No. 761/Lp13), third reading. Six proposals have been received and examined by the Commission. 1. - The legal bureau's proposal, which is editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U71	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U72	2. - Member Eglysh's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U73	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U74	3. - Member Eglysh's proposal. Partly supported and included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U75	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U76	Proposal 4 has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U77	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U78	5. - Member Eglysh's proposal. Partly supported and included 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U79	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U80	And six. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U81	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U82	I ask Members to adopt the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U83	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Funded Pensions” in the third, final, reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Aldis Gobzems. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U84	Hello, colleagues! Hello, Latvian society! I will report on the draft law. 700/Lp13 - “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law”. The Legal Commission has examined the draft law before the third reading. 11 proposals have been received by the Commission. I would like to say that all the proposals are relatively simple and not too serious, so we will quickly pass through them. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns, which clarifies the jurisdiction of certain categories of cases for the court of Vidzeme suburb in Riga. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U85	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U86	2. - The legal bureau's proposal, which is editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U87	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U88	3. - The proposal of the Legal Bureau, which is also editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U89	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U90	4. - The legal bureau's proposal, which is editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U91	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U92	5. - The legal bureau's proposal, which is editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U93	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U94	6. - The legal bureau's proposal, which is editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U95	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U96	7. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U97	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U98	8 / 8 - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 9. - in the Commission's proposal, which is supported by the Commission and which we will see immediately.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U99	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U100	9. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U101	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U102	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U103	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U104	11. - The legal commission's proposal, which is editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U105	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U106	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U107	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law” in the third, final, reading! Please, let's vote! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to law on the prevention of conflict of interest in the activities of public officials”, third reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission – Member Karina Sprūde. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U108	Dear colleagues, The draft law on “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of Public Officials” is under consideration at third reading. This was prepared for the third reading by the Commission. A total of 16 proposals were submitted. 1. - the proposal by Members Kursītes-Pakules, Dūrīša, Vacāns, Papules, Teirumnieks and Skride, which explains the new terms used by the law. The proposal has been partly supported and included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U109	Members have requested a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the motion by Members' Courses - Pakules, Dūrīša, Vucanas, Papules, Teirumnieks and Skride! Please, let's vote! For - 23, for - 32, for - 10. The proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U110	2. - a proposal from the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government replacing in the law the words “the Money Laundering Service” with the words “the Financial Intelligence Service”. The proposal was supported by the Commission. I call for the vote and support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U111	No vote required. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U112	3. - The proposal of the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, which encourages to establish that the work of a teacher and a scientist is also a participation in institutions related to assessment of qualifications or quality. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U113	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U114	Hello, dear colleagues! I would like to remind you that the work of the Saeima Member is now allowed to be combined with academic or scientific work and that the current regulation has not hindered it. However, both the wording proposed in proposal 1 and this Commission proposal in principle state that the work of the Saeima can also be combined with academics... Well, let's say, for the office of administration. So... These positions are those which can in principle also decide on different matters, and it is clear that with this particular proposal, individual Members of the Saeima - both Janina Kursīte-Pakule and Ilmārs Dūritis - are trying, let us say, to avoid such a rather clear conflict of interest. And I have to remind you very clearly that this conflict of interest is also manifested... It is in this Saeima that it is, and it is in this Saeima that it is very clear. That is, these two Members, which I have already mentioned, are occupying... administrative functions are performed in particular universities, as well as... When we looked at the amendments to the University Law at first reading, it was these particular Members who spoke very much against the major changes in the higher education system, who opposed the fundamental changes by accepting, at best, only cosmetic amendments. I believe that this very clearly shows the conflict of interest in which Members come when they are representatives of the university administration, with certain decision- and decision-making rights, and, at the same time, those of the Saeima, and when dealing with various issues relating to state-funded universities. Consequently, the new Conservative cannot, of course, support such a proposal, but it cannot support the interconnection of such positions, which clearly shows that conflict of interest situations can develop. I call for no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U115	Name of Member Janina Kursīte-Pakulė. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U116	Colleagues! The proposal put forward by both the Group and the improved one - the Commission proposal... The need to submit them was due to a number of circumstances. First and foremost, this resulted from the activities of KNAB to see the Members in the work of professors... or the Council of Professors... probably - also in the doctoral board, possibly - in the examination commission... unauthorised matching of posts. Secondly, this also results from the fact that there are definitions for scientific, educational work, but there is no definition for the work of a scientist and a university teacher. However, these are different things. The Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of Public Officials, as you know, allows educational and scientific activities... However, the work of a teacher and a scientist is not just reading lectures and not just preparing publications, but it is also inextricably linked to the performance of scientific and educational administrative functions, such as my participation in examination commissions, the management of doctoral promotions, the preparation and participation of scientific projects, the writing, preparation and transfer of scientific reports, activities at doctoral, promotion, professors and other college councils, thus carrying out a full amount of work of a higher education teacher, professor and scientist, leading researcher. The inextricable link between the position of a professor and the functions of an administrative nature as a person performing pedagogic and scientific activities is also demonstrated by the criteria established by the Cabinet of Ministers’ regulations of 4 September 2001 “Procedure of scientific and pedagogic qualifications of a professor and associate professor”. According to point 4.3 of these Regulations, one of the evaluation criteria for the appointment of a professor is (please quote): ‘the assessment of organisational competence (in relation to academic and public activities):... the management or participation in the activities of scientific and academic commissions or collegial institutions;...’. ( End quoted) So that's why... Well, so far... So far... Well, I already have quite a long experience of the Saeima... So far, neither KNAB nor other supervisory bodies have had a problem in interpreting the existing version, but right now... In order to avoid these possible misunderstandings and to avoid narrowing the scope of the professor and the leading researcher and, more generally, the scientist, the full exercise of all functions, these commissions have been submitted... Amendments Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U117	Name to Member Ilmar Duritis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U118	Highly respected Member of the Speaker of the Saeima! High honourable Members! The previous speaker, Janina Kursīte-Pakule, has already, in essence, said many important aspects. I would just like to say a few more points. This interpretation of the Ministry of Education and Science about what is a professor's work was surprising, so not only in this country, but not only, including us, but... in general - not just an organisation, not a single lawyer. Because when we discussed this issue and discussed this issue - which by its very nature is the work of the professor and the work of academic staff in general - then... It is clear from all laws and regulations existing in Latvia, therefore from the Law on Higher Education, that the professor's work consists of three components: scientific, academic and organizational work. And undoubtedly in the organizational work... In order for a scientist, a professor, to be able to, say, lead in his field, in his specific field of activity, he also needs... Either, to manage, for example, the Professors' Council or to be at the Promotion Council and so on, i.e. to actively participate in the evaluation and preparation of new professors or future professors. And, of course, the professors' councils and also the promotion councils are those which essentially deal with the assessment of scientists, young scientists, qualifications, and the assessment of specific qualifications. So as a professor in veterinary medicine, I appreciate the professional and scientific qualifications of potential future professors, being on the Council of Professors, so - the quality of their publications, the quality of their projects. Thus, in fact, the condition that the Council of Professors can only have a professor already elected in the relevant field of science is that, in essence, this work requires deep, specific, professional knowledge. I'm not, for example, capable of assessing, let's say, the new or emerging professor... the quality of the candidate, for example, in physics. I can only do this in veterinary medicine. And this misunderstanding is also reflected in another fact. We asked for the opinion of the Council for Higher Education, which in the Law on Higher Education... Under the Law on Higher Education, we supervise the work of the Councils of Professors, and we also asked for an opinion to be expressed by the Association of Professors of the University of Latvia and the Academy of Sciences of Latvia. And all these three institutions, all as one! - he said that in their opinion, the work on the Professors' Board corresponds to... and is - clear and bright! - one of the components of the professor's work. If we do not solve this issue in the law, which I think will be very well solved by this proposal, it turns out that a professor who, for example, has been elected to the Saeima or who is in office as an official can to some extent no longer continue to do so (although, on the one hand, scientific and academic work, in the sense of law, is permitted) because he simply... he lacks one very important component of the real and everyday components of his work. That is why I would very much call for support for this proposal because, in my opinion, this proposal has been formulated broadly enough to put an end to this misunderstanding, as I say, because... I am really surprised by what Mr. Znotiņš said... and the fact that he links this issue with university reform. In my opinion, higher education issues are being dealt with intensively, and university reform will take place, and the law is moving forward. Dear colleagues, I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U119	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government! Please, let's vote! For - 73, for - 15, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U120	4. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. This proposal also replaces in law the words "the Anti-Money Laundering Service" with the words "the Financial Intelligence Service". The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U121	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U122	5. - The proposal of the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, which extends the limits of acceptance of donations. Proposal No 5 has also been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U123	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U124	6. - a proposal from the Legal Office to exclude the word "at least". The proposal was supported and included in the Commission 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U125	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U126	7. - the proposal of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, which proposes to supplement the sixth paragraph of Article 25, setting a time limit for the submission of a statement, where a decision has entered into administrative infringement proceedings or criminal proceedings whereby a person has been punished for giving false particulars in a declaration of a state official. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U127	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U128	8 / 8 - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. It is included in 7. - the Commission's proposal. Partly supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U129	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U130	9. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau to replace the words "Monitoring of Money Laundering Service" by "Financial Intelligence Service" in the law. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U131	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U132	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of Minister of Finance Reira, which states that the publication of the updated declaration will have to be ensured by the State Revenue Service. The proposal was partly supported and included in the Commission 11. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U133	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U134	11. - The proposal of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, which states that the State Revenue Service will have to ensure that the specified declaration is made public not later than within a month. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U135	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U136	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is a drafting proposal, which provides for the inclusion of changes made to the previous article and adds the text of the article with the number "2.1". The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U137	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U138	13. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is editorial, similar to proposal 12. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U139	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U140	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, which encourages the law to replace the words “on a website on the Internet” with the word “on a website”. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U141	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U142	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, which extends the time limit for submitting a declaration to the Director of the Office for Constitutional Protection until 1 April, namely, the number and the word Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U143	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U144	16. - The proposal of the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, which states that certain amendments to the law shall enter into force not on the day following the announcement of the law, but on 1 July 2021. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U145	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U146	I call on Members to vote in favour of the third, final reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U147	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of Public Officials” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft Act “Amendments to the Road Transport Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U148	Hello, colleagues! The Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Road Transport” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 873/Lp13), decided to support this draft law and to direct it to the first reading of the Saeima. The draft law provides for the replacement of the words “republikas miestas savivaldybės savivaldybės”, “republikas miestas” and “republikas miestas” in the Law on Road Transport, ensuring compliance with the territorial division established by the Law on Administrative Areas and settlements. According to the draft law, with the entry into force of the law, special permits and licence cards of Jēkabpils and Valmiera municipality will no longer be issued. The Commission has supported and recognised the draft law as a matter of urgency. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U149	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Road Transport” as urgent! Please, let's vote! For - 80, for - 1, for - 2. Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U150	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U151	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on Road Transport Law! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U152	The deadline for submitting proposals is 25 January this year. And the second reading - 28 January.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U153	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 25 January this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 28 January this year. Thank you. Draft law “Amendment to the Fisheries Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U154	Hello, fellow Members, again! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Fisheries Act”. It is a draft law prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers and related to the administrative implementation of territorial reform. As you remember, on 10 June 2020 the Saeima adopted the Law on Administrative Areas and Accommodations. According to the new territorial division of administrative territories and municipalities, it is necessary to amend several laws and regulations by aligning the names of territorial units used in regulatory enactments with the laws and regulations. In more simple words, these amendments to the Fishing Law provide that a particular location of the lake is not to be specified in the relevant administrative territories (with the exception of Duneser, as there are two), since the administrative location of public water bodies is already laid down in Annex 1 of the Civil Law. At the same time, in order to ensure the clear application of the legal provisions, in the draft law... location in a specific administrative area... ‘Duņezers’ is specified in the district of Ādaži, as there is another Duņezers in the municipality of Limbažu where industrial fishing is not prohibited. That is the essence of this draft law. Colleagues, within the Commission, we have supported this draft law and asked for urgency for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U155	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Fisheries” as urgent! Please, let's vote! On - 83, against - no, abstaining - 2. Thus, the draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U156	I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U157	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Fisheries”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals and consideration at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U158	Deadline for the submission of proposals... Let us wait until 25 January. Second reading... calls for a second reading of the draft law on 28 January.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U159	So the deadline for the submission of proposals is 25 January, and consideration of the Saeima meeting - 28 January. Thank you. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and Proliferation”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Atis Zakaistovs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U160	Hello, colleagues! We work with Law No. 872/Lp13 - Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and Proliferation. These amendments concern so-called financial repairs and essentially explain and define customer research processes. And because it is very important for the financial sector in general, the Commission has decided to recognise these amendments as urgent. So I ask the Saeima to recognise these amendments as urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U161	Thank you. Please call me! I'm sorry... Does Member Lubova Švecova want to talk about urgency?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U162	Yes, I would like to talk about urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U163	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U164	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues! This draft law concerns a very sensitive area, namely... of which... This draft law not only provides instruments for the exchange of information, but also... entities of the law... Outsourcing of information. Out-of-service platform will be planned... how private entities are designed... Outsourcing provider - company. I see here very important and very conceptual questions about respect for human rights, given the problem of the protection of personal data. And given that this draft law was originally examined by the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, not at the meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission... I listened to the audio record of this committee meeting and took note of the arguments. Yes, of course, the whole country... officials, officials agreed that there was an urgent need to amend the law, and this urgency is linked to the need to implement FATF initiatives... New, updated... in our legislation. But there is one important thing that I heard from the Finance Minister's representative during the discussion of the commission. It has been said that, in fact, the European Union... The FATF initiative on the introduction of an external tool and its use in AML inspections is only a discussion that has been launched in the European Union. Then I have a very important question. If FATF offers to initiate a discussion in the Member States of the European Union on the possibility of introducing such a tool, Latvia is already implementing it in legislation, without creating a serious discussion with all the players involved in this segment, with all the relevant organisations, not only with the Financial Sector Association, but also with the law entities that are law offices, the car trade sector, the real estate trade sector. It should be noted that these amendments concern a very important part. Given that only representatives of the Financial Industry Association took part in the meeting of the Commission, but there was no wider segment, I believe that the decision to direct precisely such draft laws is unthinkable as a matter of urgency and, in my opinion, even a very important decision affecting people's rights, which could jeopardise and also lack quality regulation in this area. It should be noted that the Ombudsman also attended the meeting of the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission. And the Ombudsman's arguments were very careful and very delicate. I did not personally hear answers to these during the committee meeting, so I strongly oppose the adoption of this type of draft law as a matter of urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U165	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and Proliferation” as urgent! Please, let's vote! For - 61, for - 22, for - 2. Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U166	Colleagues! Obviously there is a debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U167	So let's start the debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U168	Thank you. Colleagues! The fact that there is a problem with dirty money in Latvia, we know. Yeah, that's exactly what we know, based on a pont count of Latvian officials, non-governmental organisations and many media as malignant mantras. The day from year to year. Karina’s government also declared the first of its work to be ‘capital repairs’. What was the result of “capital repairs”? Unfortunately, this led to thousands of people losing their jobs; to the fact that Latvia's budget does not receive around 50 million euros per year in taxes; to the fact that the Minister of Defence itself points out that with “capital repairs” we have entered the ditch; to the fact that the Board of Fiscal Discipline also in its opinion, when examining the state budget and the economic crisis due to the Covid-19 pandemic, points out that Latvia's position, when the crisis started, was weakened due to measures taken economically “capital repairs” because, carefully and very untactively, when it can be said, but in fact excessively - unthinking and unstructured - when introducing requirements, the Latvian economy became uncompetitive. We are now being offered a draft law, which basically provides for the outsourcing of AML. However, there is one very important case in this draft law, as there is also such a case: “If the supervisory and control body detects non-compliance of the beneficial owner of the legal entity with the requirements of paragraph 1 of this Section (inclusion – i.e. impunity and impeccable reputation), it decides to entrust the respective beneficial owner of the legal entity or the person through which the said beneficial owner exercises control, within a specified time limit, to eliminate the established non-compliance, including the disposal of the relevant shares or shares providing significant or controlling interests.” And then I have a question: perfect reputation... Does the law firm working with Mr. Juša's wife Alla Juša have a perfect reputation or are now in trouble with a reputation, given that the lawyer gave legal advice to Slyva or Vjačeslav Shestakov, the representative of crime organized by Russia? Yes, I think there are certain reputational problems here. And according to these amendments to the law... The penalties provided for should lead to the disposal of holdings by that office. And think, colleagues, too, that introducing the concept of reputation into legislation is very, very widely understood and can be used. If some information is disseminated to the mass media about one of the shareholders - will it be because this person already has a perfect reputation... Right? And what the consequences and manipulations can have. I believe that the amendment of this law in such wording and under such conditions is hasty, unthinking and may affect very important human interests and rights. Therefore, I would ask you not to support the progress of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U169	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U170	Dear colleagues, I draw your attention to the fact that this draft law was not, by its very nature, dealt with in the Saeima. I repeat, by nature. Because this draft law, which concerns very complex issues in the financial sector, was formally dealt with by the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption, which has never been responsible or competent in matters relating to the financial sector. Consequently, by definition, this commission was unable and could not adequately and professionally and competently examine this bill because, for example... Colleagues, I am absolutely convinced that none of the members of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - all due respect to colleagues - understand what, for example, is the so-called shared KYC utility or client research tool. And no one really understands what the possible options are, what is the current debate in the financial world about the possible use of this tool, the problems and so on. If you, fellow Members, believe that this examination has taken place in substance, then there is a proposal to do so, for example: to send the Law on Higher Education to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, to send the Criminal Law to the Commission on Education, Culture and Science, to send the Law on Budget to the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs, colleagues! Or maybe we'll do even better, maybe we'll make a lot of it. Then maybe the Bureau could arrange the draw at the beginning of each meeting, and then the draw order as such... I think we should have such a sportlot. We could call this Saeima Loto... Or someone. Accidentally, draft laws will be sent to one or the other commission. Well, what's the problem? That is why I repeat, colleagues, and that is the protocol and the future: in essence, this draft law was not dealt with in the Saeima and has not been received... were not properly discussed, discussed. We're actually... We have no idea what the impact this draft law could have on the financial sector and the economy of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U171	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U172	Colleagues! Society! As I was aware of this subject today, I also published one article, and I will refer in part to it. I want to start by saying that it is absolutely clear that our power wants to destroy Latvia to the end. These amendments are, in fact, those that want to destroy Latvia's finances completely and definitively... All right, all right. Let's get two stories, but there's a lot of them, and everyone knows them. Every person in everyday life... I think that over the last year, people have met these stories countless times. I'll tell you only from my last known life. The first story is as follows: One acquaintance who owns a shipping company sells the ship and wants to return the credit to the bank. He has already hanged in a hundred ways, trying to prove the origin of the money and the fact that there is no elephant. In Latvia, he has been plagued with bank accounts for a long time, and in the end, this man speculated, in Germany he opened a bank account, not being physically present, not even being in Germany. Opens the bank account, lives and happy works. The second story. I just faced another similar situation. One gentleman, Swedish by nationality, an investor who bought a production company, growing the number of employees from one to 10, said yesterday that he had to show his body, money, to the neck of each bank of Latvia. In fact, wherever he goes, he needs to do the same thing: he actually has to dress up to the last crown, and at least or explain some things that go beyond any limits. Why isn't there for half six, but is there for half an hour, for example, or seven in the evening and so on. He says he's got it to his neck. With whom he is one of the most ancient Vikings in his country, Sweden, and his ancestors may have really got that money hundreds, hundreds and hundreds of years ago in a monastery in France or Ireland, or some kind of Viking maneuvering in those times. It's a feeling that now in Latvia we're trying to check how it was at the time. Now it's the main thing. Summary It's enough for every accountant, lawyer, bank to make a pinkerton-swonder show. It's just... That's too much. Latvia is being destroyed. The register of companies registers the company, and everything is clear to everyone. That's it, dot. Why this is important, and why it is the main thing. Because bank accounts are currently in Latvia... Basically, Latvian politicians and those who understand something from the economy must be invited to turn their accounts into other countries, because it is almost impossible in Latvia. For the sake of truth, it must also be said that after every such pioneer... The activities of power pioneers in Latvia, which are being done by the existing power, will be significantly more difficult for commercial banks themselves, customers, natural and legal persons abroad. And what you don't understand is neither the power nor the Financial Intelligence (or Investigation) Service, nor the FCTC, nor their political representatives, the New Unity, the parties, and what's not there yet - the toughness of demand against customers in the world is not of interest to anyone. In particular, nowhere in the world is interested in how entrepreneurs are calculated in Latvia. No one will ask the bank “Citadele”, for example: “Well, how do you go there?” Only said: “We heard that it is unrealistic to open an account with you in Latvia. Plus that you need to prove the origin of the capital for 1997 or 2007.’ No one will tell you, "Love!" In other words (and this name has been used in the Saeima, by the way, and it is recognized that it is... It can be used) - our idiots will make life difficult for voters and will do nothing good for international recognition. No international organisation that plays a significant role in the financial sector and that determines the level of risk for working with a certain state credit institution or companies will say to Latvia: “Malachi!” Never. One more point to be added here. We have one cantor of the country headed by Mrs. Steinbuck. The group of macro-economics, which could be about the 500 thousand community's money, which was distributed to them as far as I understand, was finally divided, with the help of econometric methods to calculate such questions and answer - how much the monetary... This monetary case? How much did the ‘capital repairs’ cost? What is the monetary and fiscal impact of ‘capital repairs’? How much money did the Latvian financial sector lose? How many countries didn't get tax? What was the impact on the downstream sectors? How much money did we lose by making Latvia an unfriendly jurisdiction for foreign capital, from which finances are fleeing? And by the end. The most important thing, in my opinion, in all this story, where we should land a little from these fighters and the right heights and understand one thing - the size of Latvia and the size of Latvia's financial sector is that there is no world's navel in legalization of money. Our mist economy cannot hide any bribe or ottkat of normal size. That is physically impossible in our mykimous economy. Let us end suffering the people of our country. Let's stop punishing business. You really don't see that you're leaving Latvia not only physically... people? Do you not see that companies are moving away from Latvia? And you don't see that companies and people are moving more and more from Latvia to other countries in Europe, where there are no "capital repairs", "structural reforms" and "failure stories" or champion titles in the fight against the community? Let's start defending our people! And let's end up destroying Latvia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U173	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U174	As the debate has already mentioned the obvious, yes, there are problems in the financial sector. That is why it is necessary to begin to remedy its problems, and these amendments are a step in the direction of improving and clarifying and defining processes. The Commission was supported. I ask the Saeima to support these amendments at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U175	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and Proliferation”! Please, let's vote! For - 78, against - 4, abstaining - 3. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U176	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be two weeks, 4 February of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U177	4. ... and consideration of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U178	In the nearest possible emergency sitting, after the commission has submitted...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U179	Nearest sitting - 11 February. Thank you. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Legal Movement of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and Medicinal Products and Precursors”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, the name of Member Juris Jušas. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U180	Hello, dear colleagues! The Legal Commission has examined draft law prepared by the Ministry of Health “Amendments to the Law on the Legal Movement of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and Medicinal Products and Precursors” (No. 885/Lp13), which is directed at the same time as the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law” (No. 886/Lp13). The amendments to the law provide for simplification and reduction of the time-consuming procedure in which drugs, psychotropic substances, plants, medicines and precursors are subject to control in Latvia, combining both determination of the control status of these substances and determination of the extent of breakdowns in one legal act. The draft law also ensures the application of the European Union regulations in the field of drug precursors. At the same time, amendments to the law provide for the possibility for animal keepers to administer the medicinal product to the animal for the continuation or completion of the treatment course, thus monitoring and protecting the health of the animal. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U181	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the bill “Amendments to the Law on the Legal Movement of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and Medicinal Products and Precursors”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. First-reading law supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U182	The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 January this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U183	The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 January this year. Thank you. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, the name of Member Juris Jušas. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U184	Dear colleagues, At first reading, we see draft law prepared by the Ministry of Health “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”” (No. 886/Lp13), which is being led at the same time as the draft law on the Law on the Legal Movement of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and Medicinal Products and Precursors (No. 885/Lp13). Amendments to the law, as in the previous draft law, aim to simplify and make less time-consuming the procedure in which drugs, psychotropic substances, plants, medicines and precursors are subject to control in Latvia. The lists of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances controlled in Latvia are laid down in the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations of 8 November 2005 No. 847 “Regulations on drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors to be controlled in Latvia”. Annex 2 to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law” also includes the list mentioned above, establishing the amounts of controlled narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, as well as precursors, up to which quantities of substances are to be recognised as small, and starting from which quantities are to be recognised as large. In order to avoid any duplication of the above-mentioned lists in various existing regulatory acts, amendments to the law provide for the establishment of the status and extent of classification of both narcotic plants, substances and medicinal products and psychotropic substances and medicinal products in a single legal act. In addition, the draft law provides for clarification of the lists of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances controlled by Annex 2 to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of the Criminal Law”, so that the norms included in the regulations will not be repealed when the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers expire. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U185	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”” at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U186	The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 January this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U187	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 28 January this year. Thank you. Dear colleagues, It's time for a break. Registration has taken place. The meeting would continue at 13.30 a.m. Thank you for your work. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U188	Dear Members, Honourable Members! We shall resume the examination of the agenda of the remote emergency sitting after the break on 21 January 2021. On the agenda of the sitting - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Personal Data”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Aivars Geidan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U189	Dear President, Dear colleagues, In the Legal Commission we looked at the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Personal Data” (No. 890/Lp13). The draft law has been drafted by the Ministry of Justice with the aim to provide for the responsibility of officials for violations of data protection, to determine the amount of penalties and competence of the State Data Inspectorate in the application of penalties, as well as to extend the time limit for the assessment of the validity of the qualification examination of the data protection expert under this Law. The draft law provides that officials for unlawful acts of personal data, as well as for failure to comply with their obligations... there is a fine to be imposed on both infringements - up to 200 fine units, which is a thousand euros. On behalf of the Commission, I call on my colleagues to vote in favour of the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U190	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Personal Data” at first reading! Please vote mode! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U191	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 12 February of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U192	So there are no other proposals. The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 12 February. Thank you. The next item on the agenda is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Judicial Service Pensions, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour, Member Evita Zālīte–Grosa.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U193	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs has examined and supported at first reading the draft law drafted by the Ministry of Justice, “Amendments to the Law on the Service of Judges’ Pensions”. The draft law provides for a change in the calculation of the length of service. It provides for the calculation of service pensions, the abolition of the limitation of the 10-year period for periods worked by a lawyer and academic staff of an accredited university. In other words, take account of the length of service of less than 10 years as a lawyer or accredited university academic staff. Similarly, the draft law provides for the addition of the time worked in the position of a judge of an international court to the calculation of the length of service. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U194	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Judicial Service Pensions” at first reading! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U195	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 19 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U196	Thank you. There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 19 February this year. The next item is the bill "Amendment to the Corporate Income Tax Act", second reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U197	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Highly respected colleagues! Dear colleagues, We are working on the draft law “Amendment to the Corporate Income Tax Act” (No. 708/Lp13). No proposals were submitted for the second reading. I would just like to remind you that it is desirable to grant the advantages laid down in Section 12(1) of the Corporate Income Tax Act... or that there is a desire to give national museums, so there are no significant other proposals in the draft law, and there was no significant debate in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Please support the draft law “Amendment to the Corporate Tax Law” at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U198	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Corporate Income Tax”! Please vote mode! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U199	Deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading... We offer five days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U200	Thank you. There are no other proposals. The deadline proposed by the Commission is therefore 26 January this year. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Deep Ones of the Land”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ralph Nemiro. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U201	Dear President, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Land Deeps”. Six proposals have been received in the draft law. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is editorial in nature. Request to support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U202	So Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U203	Thank you. 2. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. The Commission is supported. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U204	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U205	So 3. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. There is also a editorial character. Partially supported, included 4. - the Commission's proposal. Request to support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U206	The Members therefore share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U207	Thank you. And 4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. As I said, it is supported. Consequently, the proposal of the Legal Office, which is included in this proposal, 4, is included in this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U208	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U209	Thank you. 5. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. Also of a editorial nature, changing dates for drafting regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. Partly supported and included 6. - the Commission's proposal. So please support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U210	So partially supported by the Commission. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U211	Thank you. And 6, as I said, the proposal from the committee responsible. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U212	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U213	Thank you. All the proposals have been examined. Please support at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U214	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Land Deeps”! Please vote mode! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U215	Dear colleagues, Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 4 February. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U216	Thank you. There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for submitting the draft law to the third reading is 4 February this year. The next item is the first reading of the draft law on legal cooperation and the protection of the rights of individuals during the transitional period following the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U217	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The Foreign Affairs Commission has examined at first reading the draft law ‘Amendment to the law on legal cooperation and the protection of the rights of persons during the transitional period following the withdrawal from the European Union of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland’. Gist of the amendment The law on legal cooperation and the protection of the rights of individuals during the transitional period following the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union, adopted in 2019, was thus designed to identify and prevent the potential risks that the United Kingdom might withdraw from the European Union without agreement, the so-called hard Brexit, but yet at the very end of last year we came to an exit agreement. According to the current Treaty between the European Union and the United Kingdom, some provisions of the 2019 Act need to be adjusted. First, to clarify the deadline for citizens of the United Kingdom and their family members to use their current residence document issued in Latvia. The request for new documents shall be submitted by 30 June 2021. This is treated accordingly as a time limit. Secondly, to clarify the time-limit within which nationals of the United Kingdom and their family members must apply for new residence documents. Thirdly, to rule out that if a UK national has not received a residence document issued in Latvia until 30 December 2020, he may continue to stay in Latvia using the rights of a Union citizen only if he has resided in Latvia for at least six months as an employed or self-employed person or student. Such regulation does not comply with the contract of withdrawal and does not specify the duration or grounds of the previous stay. And closing. The period for which residence permits will be issued to British citizens and their family members shall be specified. In the Foreign Affairs Commission, the draft law was approved at first reading. Therefore, on behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I ask the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U218	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the law on legal cooperation and the protection of individuals’ rights during the transitional period following the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union”! Please vote mode! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U219	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 1 February 2021.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2183-U220	Thank you. There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for the second reading of the draft law is 1 February this year. Thank you. Dear colleagues, We have therefore examined all the items on the agenda of the first remote emergency session on 21 January this year. I would remind you that the Saeima Bureau convened the second remote extraordinary meeting of 21 January 2021 and set the agenda 15 minutes after the end of this meeting. So at 14.05. There's a check-in. It's been a success. I'm closing the sitting.
