ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! Good morning, Mr. Ombudsman! Let's start the first remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 18 March 2021. On the agenda - oath of the Ombudsman (the solemn promise). I call on the Ombudsman Juris Jansons to make a solemn promise or an oath.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U2	Madam President of your Excellency Saeima. Dear... Dear Members, Members! Ladies and gentlemen! I, Juris Jansons, when taking on the duties of the Ombudsman, will recognize the responsibilities entrusted to me and solemnly promise to be honest and fair, defending the rights and freedoms of persons in accordance with the Constitution, laws and international treaties of the Republic of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U3	Thank you, Mr. Ombudsman. I invite you to sign the solemn promise. Thank you, Mr. High Ombudsman. Honourable Members, we have taken the oath or solemn promise. We wish the Ombudsman Juris Jansons the duties of the Ombudsman to perform his duties in honor and with the best consciousness. Thank you. On the agenda - report by the Saeima Bureau on the draft law submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment” be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On closing and opening the session of the Saeima. Draft decision on the closure of the parliamentary winter session of 2021 and the opening of the spring session of 2021. The draft decision provides for the closure of the Saeima winter session on 29 March 2021 and the launch of the spring session on 6 April 2021. We must vote on this. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the closure of the parliamentary session in the winter of 2021 and the opening of the spring session of 2021! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. On the agenda - consideration of the draft decision. The draft decision “On the Cabinet of Ministers Order of 12 March 2021 No. 163 amending Order of 6 November 2020 No. 655 ‘Proclaiming an emergency’. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U4	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! In its meeting of 17 March 2021, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined the amendments of the Cabinet of Ministers’ Order “On Promulgation of the Emergency situation”. As usual, I will name you the most important. It is foreseen that pre-school education may take place on-the-spot if the legal representative of the child cannot work remotely and cannot ensure supervision of the child. Of course, in such a case, the training process is carried out by means of weekly testing of employees and, of course, by means of appropriate epidemiological safety requirements. The order also provides that no more than five formal and no more than two non-formal education classes may be implemented in outdoors from the number of classes scheduled during that week. As you know, the order also provides for a more extensive transition to a remote job. The employer is obliged to organise the work in such a way that the work is carried out in person only by employees who ensure continuity of work and cannot carry out this work remotely in their place of residence. At the same time, appropriate control measures should, of course, also be laid down in the workplace. The order also provides for the employer's right to unilaterally post workers for a remote job - until the end of the emergency situation. In addition to the conditions already mentioned, public administration institutions have a few conditions, namely that there is only one employee in the office, while an open office needs to provide 15 square metres for an employee. If these requirements cannot be met, a timetable must be drawn up. In short, the reason for this remote work is that, according to the results of the epidemiological inquiry, there are currently two places where Covid-19 is the most infected - jobs and households. This government step is aimed at further reducing workplace morbidity. Go on. The amendments to the Ordinance include, of course, the obligation for public transport customers and carriers to ensure compliance with the epidemiological safety requirements mentioned in the Ordinance; this means filling in public transport by 50 per cent, as well as other requirements. In turn, the State Police and Local Government Police have an obligation to control how these obligations regarding public transport are fulfilled. Amendments to the Order also provide for a reference to the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation No. 360 “Eliminal security measures to limit the spread of Covid-19 infection” in point 35... with index... the first and second parts, which provide for, as before, that a person may enter Latvia if he/she has carried out a Covid-19 test 72 hours before boarding the vehicle and this test is negative. Or - if the person can present another document proving that it is not infectious. The amendments to the order also provide that the budget programme “Unforeseen Resources” may pay for the overtime work of municipal police officers performed during the night - the so-called home sitting. In general, by listening to government representatives, legal experts and Infectologists, the Commission recognised the specific amendments as proportionate, appropriate and necessary to the specific situation. I therefore call for support for the draft decision drawn up by the Commission. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U5	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Raimond Bergman.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U6	Hello, dear colleagues! Why did I choose to speak on this draft decision? It has now coincided that the information report on the progress of the comprehensive system of national defence is being examined in the Cabinet today, in which... directly about actions and actions... informing the public in different crisis situations... It would be very happy if the government were to do so, where... exactly these conclusions have been made, but unfortunately it must be concluded that these conclusions are not taken into account at times when making amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers order. 655. I really feel déjà vu right now - we are coming back to the times of the Soviet Union, because there too people invented and created a problem, and then they heroized themselves to overcome the problem. Let's think about it! We are not in a good situation from the beginning, and we are not sending vaccines, now the Minister... and many other ministers, including the head of the Cabinet of Ministers, Mr Kariņš, are fighting together to get us through this problem. We set up a vaccination office. Okay, but we don't know where to put it. Now we're... Let's see... And let's change, and let's get out of the law, and let's act... Next. In orders, we intend to change some kind of security conditions. We understand that in this way, the entrenched rows are formed at shops, people don't understand what to do, where to go, how to do. Now we will think again about how to overcome it. Now, in our commission - the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption - we hear from the people of the Secretariat of the Crisis Management Board that they had come up with a range of goods... different shopping restrictions only until Christmas... Today is March 18, and we hear that this must be abolished and changed so that people can shop in time and easily and that society does not have this situation that we hear every day. Well, that's how I feel... and so on. On an order concerning sport and out-of-court learning. Ten children will be allowed to play sports and 20 will be able to learn... And when I ask the Ministry of Health to explain why it is, the explanation is that the average number of children is important, not medical... Communicable situations... crisis risks. Before we heard such orders, we heard an explanation that 10 people are a number that can be traced. All right, let's do it. Why now 20? Why is it, and not normal - that all the epidemiological risks can be taken into account, to comply with the sanitary protocol? And how will we now share our children if there are 22 children in the class? Who will be those two who won't go outside for that hour? Why 20 if everyone can comply with these rules and if these lessons can happen? Why, say, physics, singing, mathematics can happen to 20 children, but 20 children cannot play outdoors? I'm not talking about indoors. These decisions seem very strange. We're always trying them... the same as we... For example, we can also hear at the commission right now... From the Ombudsman's Office... on the emergency... In our view, the specific provision is not clear enough, it creates quite a lot of misunderstandings. The order provides that a child may attend kindergartens if the legal representative of the child is unable to work remotely and cannot ensure the supervision of the child in the presence of another adult. The grip “and” means that both conditions must be fulfilled – cannot work remotely and cannot monitor the child. In our view, it would be better if, after regulating grammar and goals, it was clear that... That is what the Ombudsman’s Office has said. We're always trying to explain to the public... with that, I also started my speech... Trying in a simpler way... Now these entie numbers are again, the numbers are... We have no understanding of society all the time. Well, I can't hear. ... I ask you to combine my speaking time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U7	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U8	Thank you. Well, similar thoughts... We remember one story. When we had another Minister for Health, Mrs. Viņķele... at the beginning we heard about 200 beds - the code of beds. And now we know that we have up to 1500 of them already gone... And up to 2000 maybe... is possible if the case gets worse... Do not give God that this is happening! You know, the company is shocked by this uncertainty: one step forward, two - back. Now when will we try to explain something? We said that we are now guided by the principle of "seven times the size, once the cut". Now we're... We measured, we measured, we measured, and we cut it back and forth! How long do we see that? Well, how long can society do that? Wait? I could find a lot of different epithets, but... I really want to understand why we're so... We're making one... and now we have another armagedon coming to us again. Easter. Society does not know what to do, what to expect. When we had Christmas time, there were many beautiful expressions from various officials. Now let us hope that perhaps again we will enjoy something to Easter. But if honestly, trust in the government is very, very important for society. We're already... We know that neither the government nor the Saeima is too... And if we try to approve such draft laws and draft decisions, unprepared, then it does not build trust. I can give you one example. Looks like, well, what's big is that one mistake, let's fix it, and that's it. No, no. In Scotland, the king, fighting for independence... once refused to do it with the Scottishs and then fought for the rest of their lives... his monument is behind the gate of the castle wall... for this once... Dear people, let's help... Let us help with clear decisions so that a society that is already tired... so that we can resolve this crisis! And that's why... We cannot also support this draft decision because, although there are many good things, it also contains so great errors. So what I see right now... Please help society overcome this crisis! And we're ready, we're well prepared. And I think now, too... Going back to this same... the beginning, where... exactly in this information report... And it's such an interesting thing - it must have happened that currently we have Kariņš, the head of the Cabinet of Ministers, and in the construction of the comprehensive state defence system a communicator with a very symbolic name - Mieriņš, has been chosen. Let us believe and trust in Peace, who makes it possible to do and understand clearly what society needs to do in a specific situation! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U9	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U10	Good morning, everybody! What we're going to do in Easter... I think it is absolutely clear to everyone from last year, which we will show everyone, to the whole world, but it will not be like that. All these restrictions and all these... lack of words and epithets... is comparable to that of an outrageous parent in the social networking of his or her child’s role in social knowledge for Classes 7 to 9. I simply compare the task (it is short) to say: “Select the situations and records that are offered, which of the methods of contraception and why you would recommend in the situation. Option 1. The guy went on a foreign trip. During the trip, he wants to enjoy all opportunities, including prostitute services. What would you recommend to the guy? And the other. She is in financial difficulty and has borrowed money from strangers. Since there is no job and there is no possibility to repay the debt, the girl receives an offer to become the lover of the lender, despite the fact that the man has his own family. She agrees. What would you recommend to the girl?” Such a task, a real task, in the Latvian education system! And this task clearly and clearly demonstrates the nature of all the decisions taken and all the actions that have been taken by the government - and especially by the Ministry of Education and Science - towards the degradation of the education system. Mr Bergmanis has already said everything in principle about those figures; I think this is not worth repeating. The most important thing to say to society is that this government will not allow children to become educated, nor will it allow them to develop. And the only chance, dear people, is the only chance! - so that your children go to school without such restrictions that are beyond your mind, the only option for you to have freedom, dear people, so that you can go to work and you do not have to distance and wear masks (as the chosen ones of the Music Bank could not do), is to give me power, dear society. And I will give you freedom. There is no point in criticising this power anymore. You have options. Either we continue to live the way we have lived for the last year - every week with insane restrictions and up to the comics of laughter, tragic laughter, state officials - or we are replacing all of this. There is no other option. There are no other alternatives, dear people, you like it or don't like it. And it's your choice, because criticising is no longer meaningful. I think that 99.99 percent of society is clear that this power is inability - from the President and the Prime Minister... and where to talk about the education and science ministers and the finance minister, and everyone else. Latvia is stable in the last place in almost all indicators... almost all of the positive figures are last, the negative ones are the first. This power has wasted itself, this system has wasted itself, and the only way to replace it is to break it down to the foundations - and to replace it legally. There is no other possibility. And the choice is yours. Either you come, people, with me and we do it, and you regain freedom or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U11	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U12	Good morning, dear colleagues! The material mentioned by my colleague, Mr Gobzem, after the parents raised the alarm on the Internet for a whole week and shared it, was miraculously removed out of circulation - with the words of apologies that this material has become obsolete. This proves once again that Mrs Šuplinska absolutely does not know what is happening at all in the Ministry of Education and Science, because this material, this particular task, was given to the child during the training process. So the child had to think about the answers... Consider the answers to these questions. Colleagues, this draft decision continues to ridicule our children once again. I believe that such a clear disrespect for children's lives and for children's health should not be allowed. What we see today when we go to work - snowshots, and at the same time we hear news that the Ministry of Education and Science will now organise seminars to improve the performance of children's hours in outdoors - in snow, in malls, I don't know where else - because we don't already have the means to equip some tents and tents... I really would like to see the winner of the competition who will have received orders for some new lesson... training site equipment... These materials. You may have come up with this, too, given how much you, honourable colleagues from the government and also from the coalition... how hard it is for you to share money for all kinds of foolishness at the moment, because what we see is that you enter the ears, and then you spend money on communication strategy, then you spend money on various campaigns to calm people down. It is no secret that even the pharmacy business, the pharmaceutical business already forms ads that are aimed at tired people, proving that yes, see, you are tired of masks, you are tired of restrictions. This has already been noticed by pharmacologists, by all those who offer medicines, and the offer is: “Drink “Nervostrong”!” So it has already been recognised by all of them; they all see that these restrictions - all these restrictions, unclear and unexpected - have a very serious impact on people's psyche. And now... Yes, of course - if there is demand, there is also an offer right away. And the offer is as follows - tablets! Drink the medicine, drink some infusions, calm down! So you, government, understand that people must just drink medicine against these fools! How normal is it at all that people are looking for a reassuring medicine at the pharmacy, so that they can understand these restrictions and be able to live with them? You've made it... people have taken them to the point that they need to search for drugs. If we are talking about children's sport, about the unfortunate issue that we have been talking about since January, then nothing has progressed on this issue, and no matter how many signatures are collected, no matter how many letters the federations are submitting, nothing is moving forward. It's just being driven to laugh at children. Probably because you need to buy tents, probably because you need to equip outdoor classes, and there will be a relative who will heat his hands again. I can be absolutely sure of this because you are not doing anything to help people. You're doing everything to enable your guys to get a reward for a competition. We see, for example, the same test. What happens to airport testing? Why do we now have one winner? Why do we have one winner who will now make tests - thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands? People already have no choice - they have to take a test on arrival. And this test fee, as we see, will now be raised! Who's figured it out? You come up with an obstacle bar and instantly come up with a solution on which your hands will warm up. You don't think about people, you think only about your personal wallet, you think about how you can earn. And you earn very well on this pandemic! You really deserve it very well, and we see it, and we will prove it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U13	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U14	Hello, Madam President. I call for my speaking time to be connected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U15	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U16	Thank you. In a particularly critical situation, we see what is in the country - who can lead, who cannot lead. And what we do with our children, both at school and outside school, is that all the groups... This also points to the problem that exists at the moment. For example, psychotherapyist Nils Konstantinov in his studies showed what young people need more to feel better: 60 percent of the young people surveyed said that they had to spend more time with friends, 47.1 percent - physical activity or sport, 37.6 percent - psychologist's advice or psychotherapy. That is the reality. If you look at a European country like Slovenia... There, since 1991, regularly organizes the Eurofit test, where all students from the age of 7 to 19 are measured, and then they study it... That is exactly what, during the first wave of the community, has also shown the problems that have appeared to those young people - there, obesity has increased by 14 percent. We know about our children that obesity is happening to us all the time - on average - but now we can compare... I guess that 14 percent more came to our children as well. And the fact that they're demanding - 37,6 percent... that there is a need for psychologist's advice... because we can't organise physical activity outside. It was winter... but, as Mrs Stepanenko said, only now the Minister of Education and Science is starting to study what events are going on outside. Was snow, was good skiing. Which school or ministry organised a ski race? It would have been urgent to buy skis - already in December, January - so that all children can hide the edge free of charge, in all good places, which are many - both in Riga and outside Riga. I should have done that! It didn't bother anyone outside... because everyone can, but in every school, 20 people cannot go out and hide in the fresh air. It was able to strengthen health and also show... When children are together, they need to express their energy somewhere outside... Not at all, let's hold it in. It wasn't done! Now it's spring, right now it's summer. Please, Minister of Education and Science, what are you offering now on holiday? Nothing! No walk or competition where all the conditions of the epidemiological situation can be met - nothing! The summer is also ahead of us, please prepare for it. On March 12, the General Meeting of the Council of Sports Federations of Latvia, which unites 94 federations recognised by Latvia, was held and a letter was sent... a resolution to both Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš, Minister for Education and Science Šuplinska, Minister for Health, Member of the Saeima's Committee on Education, Culture and Science, Ašeraden, Member of the Parliament's Committee on Education, Culture and Science, and to the Sports Sub-Commission of the Commission on Education, Culture and Science, that unfortunately there was a lack of social dialogue, that the government does not talk to those organisations about how to help what they recommend. The specialists who are the best in Latvia in their industry do not create any social dialogue, each of them does something himself, and then we read... and think: How can we fulfill it? Ladies and gentlemen, we are also professionals - we are also very experienced! Not you! You're the ones who don't care about sport... doesn't make friends with sports. What other specialists, high-earned coaches, athletes, say, - please take this into account and listen once! After all, we can also get together in online mode and talk, exploring the situation, showing us what we can do. We are not for the need to violate those rules, no, we are for the need to restrict something, but reasonable and so that it is clear what can and cannot be, and how can it be. There are hundreds of opportunities for us to organise it so that we can move forward. Let us now draw attention to the experience of other European countries if we do not want to think ourselves! Thank you. I hope that the next order may be much better and that social dialogue will begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U17	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U18	Hello, colleagues! How about that? It's all old in our kingdom! And if the vaccination office, which we seem to be liquid today, but in reality, we're just going to restructure by keeping wages... Our Cabinet of Ministers could then be referred to as the Cabinet of Ministers of disinformation, looking at this particular order of 12 March. If the vaccination office has a vaccination profanation office, then the Cabinet of Ministers is dealing with disinformation for a long time and absolutely legitimate. A concrete example. On 12 March, an order was adopted, where it was written in a clear and clear manner that the child should not be taken to a kindergarten if the legal representative of the child could not work remotely and could not ensure supervision of the child. As early as 13 March, all kindergarten directors knew that they had no right not to accept the kindergarten, as the government has provided for it. The government knows it well, but imagines that you don't know and preach to all citizens: no, don't bring your children to the garden if you can't work... cannot work remotely... In fact, there is no regulatory basis for not accepting children in a kindergarten. And then, quietly, after several days, admits that this norm, this entry in this order, has only a recommendive character. What is it, is it not disinformation? Are you keeping all the people stupid? That only those who know and who will be jogged by the kindergarten directors? Next example: You solemnly announced that, here, all pensioners, disabled people will receive EUR 200. You wrote a rule to explain... I say very seriously to you: a number of lawyers, several experts sit and think about what this sentence and this one means. Yesterday the voices started to sound that... You know, I was told that, however, those children who are entitled to a pension due to their loss will not receive EUR 200. I said, of course, you should have read that there was one sentence on it that, yes, the child has the right to receive them EUR 200 because he has lost his mother and dad, namely to receive their survivor's pension, but at the same time he has the right to EUR 500, then he will receive only EUR 500, they will not receive EUR 200, only one can choose. Where was that clear communication? Where did you tell people clearly and lightly that this would be the case? Why can't you tell children with disabilities to mothers and dads that, no, you won't get them... plus EUR 200; only those parents who bring up very, very heavy... children with a very severe degree of disability because we do not have the criterion - if you are a child or a pensioner or a disabled person, then please get it. No, we have other criteria. We have bureaucratic criteria that help ministries to easily submerge this 'helicopter money'. I finally got it last night, finally! - a letter signed by the welfare minister, Mrs Petravičas, that, here they counted the number of university students under 20. I sent you a letter, Mr. Village, to read that they finally counted that there could be about 4450 children, under 20 years of age... but they admit that they can't derail - no ministry, not the whole Cabinet of Ministers... that they will have to write the application to the parents, then check whether they will be allowed to pay the money. And that approximate amount of money you need -- two million that didn't find... You know, you could look at ManaBalss.lv, there's already an initiative, and in 20 hours it's already collected two and a half thousand... three and a half thousand signatures. I very much hope that its initiative will come to us and then we will have to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U19	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U20	Hello, dear colleagues! Dear Chairman of the Saeima. I would like to touch on Article 1.7 of this amendment, which reads: "Organise work in such a way that only those workers who ensure continuity of work and cannot carry it out remotely in their place of residence" It seems to me that this wording needs to be written differently: “Can you do it in your place of residence”, because these are two... different categories. For example, there are people dealing with electricity supply, public transport and so on. They must, of course, be in their jobs. But there are also people who work, for example, in art or in the media. Their work takes place in studios or workshops, they simply cannot carry out this work in their home for technical reasons. For example, the Internet is not the same everywhere in Latvia. If a person is in his farmstead a hundred kilometers from Riga, there is little Internet traffic, and so he cannot transmit a large amount of data to his office, so the work of those public media employees who usually work in editorials is delayed. We know, however, that it is very important to provide the public with objective information in this current crisis situation, so that there is no false news and so on. This means that there is a need for free media in the country. However, journalists, several of them, simply for technical reasons, cannot work from their homes because they need this, let us say, flow to organise, but the flow can only be organised from study. But they don't belong to people who work continuously. They're working discreetly. It seems to me that this wording, which is currently in the draft law, is not correct. In other words, there is a need to write: ‘Organise work in such a way that employees who ensure continuity of work or cannot carry it out remotely in their place of residence’. This means that we will also be able to organise work for intelligence, including for those people who produce intangible goods, because in today's world, not only industry produces GDP, but also art and media. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U21	The name of Member Regina Lochmele for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U22	A little more about the level of competence. First of all on the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers. This order contains a sentence whose conclusion (Mr Bergmanis has already spoken about this) reads as follows: ‘... if the legal representative of the child is unable to work remotely and cannot ensure the supervision of the child’. And a dispute between men... As you know, the Commission responsible for this is why the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption, to which you forgive me colleagues, such a rather peculiar understanding of both social issues and education issues, because there are mostly men who really mean both protection, home affairs and perhaps prevention of corruption, but when it comes to this particular sentence that concerns children and their monitoring possibilities... If you were really aware of what happens at home, if your mom had to work remotely, for example, she had to run lectures in the economy, and if she had three children, two studies in high school, and one is three years old... She'll tell you that if the three-year-old stays at home, she can't... Neither will she be able to deliver lectures remotely, nor will the two high school students be able to learn from their homes. So I think I shouldn't have argued here how... leave the connection ‘and’ or ‘or’... ‘and/or’... I should have left the only one here... the extension of the sentence ‘does not ensure child monitoring’, and that is all. This dispute about what to leave - and whether or whether - or both - shows only that the Cabinet of Ministers is incompetent and, forgive me, a commission that looks at these orders and seems to confirm what we were talking about... that it makes no sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U23	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U24	Yes, I agree with what Mrs Ločmel said. For example, earlier in the first wave, those clips about how Mom was hiding in the bathroom seemed to be fun, embarrassing to someone, whereas now there is nothing funny anymore... on the opportunities for parents to work remotely. However, I would like to touch on the issue of lies. All these restrictions relate to lies. In particular, we are talking about masks for children. We carried out a very thorough study of the way in which our government acted by imposing these masks on children. And the conclusion we have reached is that in fact we and our parents are being shamelessly lied. In particular, there was our question to Mrs Šuplinska about what recommended for children to wear these masks, and the answer said that Mrs Šuplinska had addressed the Riga Stradins University accordingly and had received an expert opinion on the need for masks. We asked Riga Stradins University, and the answer was: “In response to your question and request to submit recommendations from our experts, we would like to clarify that the Ministry of Education and Science did not ask for recommendations or opinions from Riga Stradins University experts, but simply gathered opinions from various experts. In response to this request from IZM, several Riga Stradins University experts also gave their opinions, which could not in any case be considered as experts’ recommendations, because their preparation requires a more thorough study of the problem, longer time and greater involvement of various colleagues.” This way we are constantly lying every week! But we will certainly denounce this and show you all the lies with which our colleagues in the coalition and in the government are trying to cover their procurements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U25	The name of Member Eric Pucen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U26	Hello, colleagues! We hear a lot of criticisms about this order, but maybe I won't criticise it, but maybe... I got these... some of the proposals that we have once again... cannot be seen in this order. We have talked about this regional principle on several occasions, and we see it in the education system... schools have already introduced it and have been able to operate very well... which districts may and must not learn sports on the spot. For these small rural shops, for these regional shops selling clothing and other things that people need. I would like to emphasise that there, too, people trading would be able to ensure the same monitoring measures as we see, for example, in petrol tanks. If only four people are allowed to enter the service station, then there are no more than four and therefore these requirements - safe trade requirements - can work there. Well, it should also apply to all other outlets, to all other shops, because we must not prevent anyone from working and allow someone - that is unequal treatment! We can see that the Centre for Disease Prevention and Control is very good... Every day... has created this map, where we can see how many sick people in each region and what these indicators are. Well, then we can extend... on this trade... Also to these shops, so people don't expect any benefits from us, but... We need to make it possible for people to work so that people can go to work, earn money and feel full. I would like to touch a little on such a very important sector in the Latvian economy - agriculture. We know very well that the new agricultural season is coming. There are a lot of outlets where the materials that farmers need directly - bearings, springs, seeds and everything else - are being traded. The farmer should not be an agent for the order, who should look for how he can buy the goods he needs. The farmer must deal with agriculture. We are well aware that these shops are quite large and that they are also capable of ensuring that all these requirements - safety requirements - are met, so that these shops can work and so that the agricultural sector does not suffer either. I hope that the Ministry of Agriculture will also make proposals, and in the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers will also actively begin to speak. I call on Mr Gerhard to speak and represent his industry, because indeed the time of sowing is not beyond the mountains, the work must begin immediately when the sun begins to shine, because, as we know, every sunny day in agriculture is of weight. And that is very important: it will depend on what harvest we will have at the end of the year. So... I wanted to point out these things. I hope that soon, in the order of the Cabinet of Ministers, we will see that we are entering these outlets, these shops, and that there will not be again from the Ministry of Health, from the side of the Minister of Health, this issue has been played further and further, transferred every week, then it will be played back into our entire economy and also into our economy as a whole. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U27	The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U28	Good morning, dear colleagues! President of the Saeima! I would like to keep in mind what the previous speaker said: that entrepreneurs should be allowed to work. Really, you have to let it go! I cannot understand why you are not voting now and are not lifting those restrictions. You said there is an opportunity to organise everything. So why don't you organise it? Soon - soon! - we will make proposals. It seems to me that this is "in the near future" - it is already too late, because people are already burned and tired. I would like to tell you a little bit about who is lucky. Do those businessmen who... Today we can see that it is Gulbja's laboratory that earns very well: almost EUR 26 million of turnover was in 2019 and in 2020 there was a new record of 40 million. I think people need to understand, think critically and draw the same conclusions - what is now earning and what its exceptional situation is beneficial. We are punished for buying prolongers, for singing at the Freedom Monument. The Cabinet called for public transport not to be used, but no alternative is offered. I'm thinking about that... We can't buy wheels on the spot. And what did we just hear? Yesterday at the State Chancellery... found some limited information channel and offered to spend 330 thousand on the “Spring of Wants”. I'm sorry, it's gonna be some poster, where's a happy family that sunshines? I think I have to stop laughing at people. Man mind manipulation is taking place. He allocated 3.26 million to the Media Support Fund. Therefore, we should not be surprised that we are afraid of punishments and restrictions on people's rights from morning to evening. I would like to remind you that we are the 9th place in the world in terms of the number of suicides. And what do we wonder? We're... We have completely destroyed micro-enterprises, people have overburned, not only entrepreneurs, but also parents. Both parents and children. But officials receive allowances for work during a pandemic. And no matter if they've worked well or bad, they've got overburned, and they get, but what do the ordinary people do? Have you even thought for a moment what will happen when the emergency is brought to an end? I'm asking you to think about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U29	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U30	Good morning, colleagues! I will not talk about these restrictions, their nature, their usefulness, their ineffectiveness. My colleagues have already spoken about this. To be honest, it is to a large extent an issue on the conscience of experts, because the decision-makers are not already here what to talk about, that is also... it is said that the government is unfortunately not the decision. But there are two things that I think are of principle. All new and old restrictions are aimed at one thing: strengthening self-insulation of people. Maybe it's right, maybe it's really very effective. But, on the other hand, yesterday the border for traffic with third countries was opened. Yesterday in Riga there appeared planes that brought about a hundred people from Ukraine and Great Britain. Question. If we open the external borders, it means that we increase the risks, from the flows of people arriving in Latvia to Latvia. The question therefore arises: how proportionate is it when we open the border, on the one hand, and, on the other, when we strengthen the internal borders of the country? That is the first question. Where's the logic here? The second point is about control. In all orders and everywhere it is written that, here, control will be provided by all types of police - State Police, Local Government Police and so on. Control is a good thing if it is well thought out and if it is told exactly how it is organized, what rights and duties are there for each controlling institution. Today it is also a question without an answer. Also those restrictions that have been introduced... How they will be controlled - this is also an open question. I think the time should end once the practice that the Cabinet of Ministers is acting as they deem necessary, and then the Saeima confirms or does not approve... in principle - confirm all the foolish things that appear there, also confirming meaningful things. The decision we're talking about here looks like a tar barrel, where one honey spoon is poured into, so let's say, with premiums for the relevant staff dealing with these procedures... There's no logic here. This really leads to people having no confidence in either Parliament or government. It is dangerous in a crisis situation, especially a pandemic that has hit the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U31	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U32	President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, With regard to this order, I would like to say that this order, of course, shows a whole series of different contradictions, which my colleague Raimonds Bergmanis has already spoken about, for example, with regard to 10 children and 20 children who... can learn 20, but only 10 children are allowed to exercise. There's no real logic here. I also share what Mr Dolgopolov said about these arriving people... to those who are on their way. The President of the Latvian Academy of Sciences has already spoken about this, pointing out that we are opening borders and then about the further control of these people... the responsibility of the person himself. If he does not do so, he is in principle threatening the rest of society and, in the end, we are once again facing new restrictions. I think it is precisely because of these many illogicalities, which are still... Even today... in the news, we see that Infectologist Dumpis says that restrictions should be strengthened; we see that the Prime Minister does not understand what is happening in his government; he desperately seeks someone to blame. I am sure that soon we will give the Prime Minister a helping hand. Colleagues, what farmers will do. I think farmers will do exactly what the rest of society is already doing - more and more are beginning to ignore government decisions, more and more are beginning to ignore what the government is trying to say, what the government is trying to impose in some way on all these orders. If you need to approach the land, then the farmers will bring the land regardless of the limitations. If you need to buy the seeds, they'll buy them, no matter what the restrictions are. Just like now... People are becoming more and more ignored and are, of course, tired of these restrictions, but the government, through its contradictory action, with this chaotic leadership, is doing everything it can to keep it going. Colleagues, there was a time when the government... That the Saeima... When the Saeima came together... some of my colleagues said... When it arrives on Thursday, then not much will come back from the Saeima, what will the Saeima accept again? And really, the Saeima... There was a time when the Saeima every Thursday... for a while came with a variety of very specific messages. The Saeima is now an executive body for the government. It would be good if the government were to work as a team and really make decisions. Unfortunately, the government is working completely chaotic. What the government is doing is putting society in a position: “God, it’s Tuesday again, they come together again! It's Thursday again, they come together again! What shall they decide, and what miracles shall come out of the government again? And, of course, communication is below every criticism. The most critical thing I consider right now is these... for example, these efforts by the government to maintain their public image by calling for various campaigns, calling for vaccination. At the same time, we see that the majority of society is ready to vaccinate and await these vaccines. In a way, too, this tragic situation, in my opinion, is that we do not even have what to vaccinate today... I think it is beyond any norms. That's why, colleagues... I call Members to remember once again... and look at it... think why the opposition is not voting for this order again... project. President of the Saeima. To the option, please enter a section on the procedure. I'd like to apply for a procedure... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U33	Colleagues, let us conclude the debate on this issue and then talk about the procedure. But maybe the procedure is directly linked to the debate on this issue, Mr Valaiņš?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U34	No, no, I...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U35	Let us conclude the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U36	... I begged you to the opportunity... Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U37	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U38	People, I'm not Eigen Fink, but let me offer my vision of the future. The future looks like this... your future, people. Until the hockey championship, you'll be sitting... and your children will also sit... in a form of house arrest - without the right to work. Officials will take care of their gardens and will improve their homes for your money. Vaccination plans will come out thanks to the successful anti-vacciners Pavļuta, Juhveviča, Henkuzen and Kaspars... sabotier... Partisan tactics. There will be a decrease in the number of patients in healthcare, but it is likely that the number of deaths may increase. This will be the case until mid-May, when you will be allowed to enjoy a little while your children continue to degrade without education and continuing their association with the screens, at the same time becoming slaves to Gates, Zuckerberg and other IT billionaires. You will be happy about a couple of Latvian hockeys' victories and their many losses. You will even be allowed to experience a couple of beer in outdoor cafes. And then you're gonna put in, in modern words, a pilot. That is, you will celebrate Johns without eggs, fire and guests. You will have sex, but unfortunately with yourself, because “friends are bad”... and who will have to experience Christmas as well. In fact, no, you, dear people, are only needed until the municipal elections, then you can, in popular terms, walk in the path of the Scotch. This is my vision of the closest future, and you, dear people, can change it by changing this system, because nothing will happen differently than what I have just said. Remind my words! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U39	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U40	Thank you, colleagues, for the debate. On behalf of the Commission, I would just say that, yes, during the Commission meeting, Vice Ombudsman Ineta Piļāne drew attention to these slightly unclear versions of pre-school institutions and their remote work. The Commission also drew the attention of ministries and government representatives to this and called for further... Clarifying these versions. This will continue to be done. To those Members who do not understand that we cannot support the whole draft decision because of a editorial inaccuracy, I would like to say... I call on you to go a little further into the way in which these decisions are approved. So thank you. Colleagues, I'm fine. I call for support for the specific draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U41	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On Cabinet of Ministers Order of 12 March 2021 No. 163 amending Order of 6 November 2020 No. 655 “Advertising the Emergency”! Please, let's vote! For -56, for -5, for -27. Decision adopted. Please enable a section on the procedure. I invite Member Viktor Valaini to apply. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U42	Thank you, honourable Speaker of the Saeima. I wanted to address my fellow Members of the Saeima and, in this case, probably the Saeima Bureau. We are not represented at the Saeima Bureau, but we would like to draw attention to the fact that, at present, the organisation of the Saeima's work prevents the preparation of the Saeima's work in a qualitative manner. And today... even this message received: the first meeting of 18 March, then the second meeting of 18 March... 15 minutes after the third meeting of 25 February... And when we look at the website, it's pretty... pretty... the agenda of this sitting... It is difficult to trace and understand when the sitting will be. Of course, we can follow and vote as voting machinery, but if we want to prepare qualitatively, it is time to understand what sittings will be. I therefore call on this issue to be discussed in some form and agreed on normal work so that everything can be understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U43	Yes, thank you Mr. Valaiņš. This issue has been discussed at the Saeima Bureau. We are holding meetings in such a way that it is possible to deal with the most urgent issues in the most urgent order. They relate to overcoming the crisis: they are both draft decisions and draft laws relating to overcoming the crisis. Also the most urgent draft laws... draft laws with a shorter date for entry into force. We have discussed this issue with the Saeima Administration and asked for transparency on the Saeima's website so that Members can see and prepare their agenda in good time. However, we see that committee meetings are also taking place, and the commissions are asking for additional draft laws to be included on the agenda of parliamentary sittings or for extraordinary sittings to be held. This request shall be respected. And yesterday, even after the parliamentary sitting, work has been continued by the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission. I know that other commissions are also planning to work on urgent draft laws today. Colleagues, therefore, these commissions also want to consider some issues as a priority, which have a logical time of entry into force... either faster or... they are necessary to address any issues more urgently... it is also respected, and it is also being done. I call on you to remember that there is still an emergency and the Saeima is working in such a way as to address, at this time, those issues that are more urgent. But, thank you. Once again, this issue has been discussed and the Administration is asked to improve transparency on the Saeima's website. Dear colleagues, The next item is the examination of the draft law. Draft Law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on the Management of Infectious Effects” (No. 973/Lp13), second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U44	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Sitting viewers and listeners! In the budget and financial (tax) commission we have examined and prepared for the second, final, reading draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection”. A total of 10 proposals have been received. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The incentive is to clarify the rule in editorial terms. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U45	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U46	2. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Taking into account the proposal of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, the law is supplemented with a new article, which reads: To reduce the consequences of Covid-19 at regional level and to achieve the objectives of administrative territorial reform, municipalities can develop high-quality investment projects and qualify for public funding. Conditions for applying for state funding for investment projects of high readiness municipalities... the Cabinet of Ministers shall determine this procedure. The Commission supports this proposal by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U47	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U48	3. - the proposal of Members Stepanenko and Svekov. The proposal calls for changes to the support framework for children. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U49	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U50	Colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank my colleagues from the CPV LV who supported this proposal at the last sitting (I am talking about the Saeima sitting). And now we have a second chance: in the second law, this proposal is proposed. We're talking about 500 euros... the extension of the beneficiaries of the support measures in accordance with the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child, which states, for example, that in a large family, a child is also considered to be a dependent child under the age of 24 if he or she is studying. Because... In informal negotiations, the Ministry of Welfare also conceptually supports this proposal, but the problem is only that the Ministry of Finance has not been able to calculate and share with this data on dependants (we are talking about a child who has reached the age of 24, who is a child in the sense of the law). So this is, let me remind you, only a technical issue that can be resolved by the ministries working together, working together and communicating with each other, calculating these... budgetary effects. The substance of this proposal is a conceptual decision on whether or not we support these children as well. I remind you that young professionals are not those who get education, but those who have finished... having completed education. So if we're talking about... You will answer that yes, these young people receive support... No, specifically, we are talking about those who learn. So they don't get any support. And the various arguments that were made in the sitting - that they have the right to receive some kind of support, respectively - study credit... I am sorry, but we are not talking about a study credit right now, we are talking about support for a dependant. I call on my fellow Members to support this proposal. In particular, I call on colleagues from CPV LV to be consistent and also to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U51	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U52	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U53	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! On - 34, against - 44, refraining - 15. The proposal is not supported. Please enable a section on the procedure. Ms Jūlija Stepanenko wishes to speak about the procedure. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U54	Colleagues, a little late... I wanted to keep up on the subject raised by Mr Valaiņš on this agenda. We invite you to complement the e-Europe programme with an opportunity to complement the agenda. We do not understand why the Saeima Administration has not made the corresponding improvements to the eEurope software when ordering the programme. We are currently hostages in the e-Parliament because of the e-Parliament order: we cannot add to the agenda, nor can we submit urgent draft laws from the opposition to allow, for example, for today's parliamentary meeting. This is not a normal job, and we are now inviting you from the Saeima Tribute to complement the functionality of the eEurope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U55	Thank you. So Commissioner Stepanenko has spoken about the procedure. Let's continue the sitting. So, proposal 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U56	4. - the proposal of Members Stepanenko and Svekov. And that means a change in the framework of aid... in relation to support to children. Proposal 4 is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U57	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U58	Colleagues! This proposal is essentially related to the previous proposal, most of which did not support you, but I will nevertheless call for a 'yes' vote. I would, of course, like to remind you that the members of the JPV LV have once again demonstrated an absolute inconsistency in their actions. I also call on those who are currently watching the broadcasting of the Saeima sitting and who appreciate the work of Members. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U59	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! On - 36, against - 43, refraining from - 16. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U60	5. - also the proposal from Members Stepanenko and Svekov. The proposal provides for a delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers - to establish the procedure for the payment of a lump sum allowance of 150 euros to teachers and support staff of pre-school educational institutions. This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U61	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U62	Colleagues! Continuing today's discussion on the inconsistency of promises with real work, I would say: this is another proof that the very widespread promotion of pre-school teachers has turned into a coup that has not now been adopted by either the educators themselves or perhaps by those who advertised. Therefore, taking into account also the call of LIZDA to compensate for this consumed part of the tax... So, EUR 150 - on average, it's the sum of EUR 300... the taxes on labour have been eaten out of the advertised aid... And that is why it is called for this time to be defined as a form of benefit, so that it is not once again attacked by all potential tax collectors, but that certain support workers and educators receive this money in exactly the way it was promised. We call for support for this proposal. We will also continue discussions on support for pre-school teachers and support staff, and we will also, of course, stress that not only do they deserve this support, but the support is also deserved by technical staff who, in the same way... Or maybe more... to a greater or lesser extent are currently under pressure... greater load and possibly greater risk. Colleagues! I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U63	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U64	Good morning! Thank you. Colleagues! I would like to say that pre-school teachers are on the first line - looking at small children, as appropriate, provides other services, other families, other people with the opportunity to work and earn income. The emotional stability of pre-school educator, his professional duties, also depends on the health of our children, the development of our children, the preparation of our children or their readiness for schooling. This aid, which has really been awarded and which should be fully - 300 euros - for pre-school teachers... Unfortunately, they received virtually only half of the money that the government, as well as the relevant promoters of this initiative, has promised and allocated. Where do I see problems? I see problems that... Last year's government, ministers and officials respectively, motivated... and granted an additional allowance in excess of this one-off premium to preschool teachers... granted places of detention to staff working in the administration. This is a very strong and dramatic demonstration of its priorities and its work and duties, which are regarded as worthy of financial incentives in the country as well. The question arises: why do people working in prison administration deserve more pay than teachers working in pre-school institutions? And do you really... I am not saying that those working in prison administration did not need a premium; I would just like to say that primary and more serious support should come from the government and society for teachers whose actions and whose work ensures our future. Therefore, my fellow Members, I believe that this proposal is one of the instruments for giving thanks to preschool teachers and assessing even a little bit adequately their work, their load and their emotional, psychological... and health risks... all that people working in this field have dedicated to our children. Please support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U65	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U66	I will give you the answer to the question where to find money not only for implementing this proposal, but also what the education system should do at this time. Because I also have a big question: education... And maybe you can find what I've said just a year ago. It is clear that the crowd will not be immune by vaccination. Anti-vacciners Juhveviča, Pavļuts and Viņķele have done well and prevented mass vaccination, both when buying too little and when buying unfit vaccines. Now is the question: how to make sure that children are on school benches in September, and how to get them and their parents and teachers supported. Clearly, the fact that 30 children spend eight hours in an unventilated class with facial masks - this will not be the solution. minus 20 degree or rain math classes - it will not be the solution either. In order to be able to return children to school, we need to find solutions. Unfortunately, the country has dropped 500 million airBaltic to fly from Vilnius and Tallinn, thus developing Vilnius and Tallinn airports rather than investing in education. Now the need for those 500 million has gone nowhere. Teachers and teachers are needed, classes are needed. Solutions are needed to make the classes smaller, the spaces bigger and well ventilated. School buses are needed for children to avoid public transport. There is a need for a minister representing educational interests in the Cabinet of Ministers, and it is not Šuplinska. She and her party members care much more about prisons and planes that settle in Vilnius and Tallinn, or the privatisation of ports to her own. It interest them a lot, much more. So much more that they really don't care about your children, dear people. In general, your children do not care about the whole Cabinet of Ministers. They care about presentations and the opportunity to waste a lot of money. And remember, Karin will be angry in August. Friends, it won't be good then, because children won't be able to start school if you don't get another prime minister to Kariņš in the near future - an active, brave and decisive... without Mrs. Emptyness. Remember these words at the end of August, dear people, and act. It is time for you to act, because only you can change this system with this power that does not care for your children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U67	The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U68	Colleagues! I would like to compare a little with the figures and explain them. The salary of pre-school teachers is EUR 790 per 40 hours. Lithuania and Estonia, on the other hand, take account of the length of work. Lithuania has between EUR 1216 and EUR 1709; Estonia has between EUR 920 and EUR 2700. Colleagues, it sounds very sad, but it is our reality: we are not competitive, we cannot support our educators, we cannot support our children. I would like to remind my colleagues that, when we adopted the budget for 2021, we gave promised co-financing to private institutions. This is very good, it should be supported, but we need to think about human resources that cannot be replaced. I call and ask to support our pre-school educators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U69	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U70	This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U71	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - the motion submitted by Members Stepanenko and Svekov! Please, let's vote! For - 35, for - 48, for - 10. The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, Let us finish the work on this draft law, close this sitting and then go on a break. I would like to inform you that the next break is scheduled at the usual time, from 12.30 a.m. to 13.30 p.m. And now, Proposal 6.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U72	6. There is also the proposal of Members Stepanenko and Svekov. It provides for a delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers - to prepare the necessary amendments to the regulatory enactments in order to determine an assistant's salary in the amount of 80 per cent of the state's minimum wage. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U73	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U74	Colleagues! It's already that... at the budget... you decoupled the assistant's salary from the minimum monthly salary, thus trying to "protected" the assistant's salary from the rise in salary, because the minimum salary in the country rose accordingly after a year - already then you... Of course, we warned you and pointed out that this is a very serious violation, but you did not listen to us. At the moment, what we hear from parents who are assistants to their children is one disappointment in this system, because the remuneration of the assistant for the parents has almost halved. Why? Because our wise officials have come to the fore for three months, this three - month period should be taken into account when calculating an assistant’s remuneration. And what have we been to in the last three months? We see that there has been a total freezing over the last three months, nothing has happened, because everything is forbidden. All activities by which parents can ensure the rehabilitation and development of their disabled child are prohibited. We are talking about sports classes for children with special needs, as well as classes with teachers - all this is not happening at the moment, and parents have not been under stress, but of course they are at home. But at home, they can’t get stamps in that assistant’s reportbook, so parents’ wages have fallen. And that's all, of course, that children with disabilities are not paid the EUR 500 we offer... plus the support we offered accordingly... what you offered. What we also heard in the Commission is, well, really... I think that these people who come up with different arguments against the opposition proposals probably live in another reality, because what we have been told is: parents will receive EUR 200, but they will receive EUR 200 for children with disabilities. It's so big money that you can build a house for it, right? I think these people in such categories who... at first untie this assistant's remuneration from the minimum monthly salary, and then they put some crumb and say it's cakes. That's what our officials do. It also works by our colleagues from the coalition - it does not listen, hear and only Rally forward. Colleagues! I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U75	The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U76	Dear colleagues, Two years ago... I remember that when we adopted the budget, we had such a big discussion that you attracted the remuneration of that assistant... And the maintenance... at the minimum wage; it was very unfair. And what do I want to remind you? During the debate, I was very active in reporting on the State Audit Office report, which said that the State had, however, not adequately funded this service and poorly financed the remuneration of assistants. Minister of Finance Reir has accused me of - that's right! - that this service must be provided by professionals and by people specialising in this particular feature. We realize, though, that the reality is that parents take full responsibility. They're every day... they know what is needed, and that's not because they don't want to work, they don't want to socialize, they don't want to visit... and develop, just no chance. No one will take care of these people better than a man... their parent or grandmother. Unfortunately, that is our reality. And I don't remember if it was in the Public Expenditure and Audit Commission... The officials had to hear that unfortunately, but parents had to fulfil their responsibilities, do not have to compare this reduction and justify themselves because it is their duty to do so. So I want to ask a question - but where is the responsibility of the state? I think we must support this proposal and complete our country... Responsibilities for granting... and not humiliating these people. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U77	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U78	This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U79	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - the motion submitted by Members Stepanenko and Svekov! Please, let's vote! For - 32, for - 50, for - 8. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U80	7. - also the proposal from Members Stepanenko and Svekov. It provides for a delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to prepare the necessary amendments to regulatory enactments in order to determine the person’s receipt of sickness benefit in the amount of 80 per cent of the average salary of the person’s insurance contributions. In the Commission, the 7th proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U81	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U82	Thank you, colleagues. I think that, in this difficult economic situation, in which most of the citizens of the country are now present, people should understand and show an understanding of the economic situation. And I think families, too... In particular, by encouraging and supporting income retention, it would only be positive if a supporting mechanism was adopted and if 80 per cent of an average person's salary was compensated for receiving sickness benefit. It would also ensure stability, provide appropriate incentives for internal consumption and provide people with better and better living conditions. That is why I am asking for support for proposal 7.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U83	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U84	Colleagues! Given that you have now supported the Government's call to ensure that work is as remote as possible, we see, of course, that there are jobs that cannot be done remotely. And for such cases, if we're talking about parents who have first- to fourth-class children at home who need to help in learning... We are talking about parents who cannot simply take a computer, go home and work from home. We are talking about those parents who have to make a distinction: whether it's work on the spot and nervous calls, and correspondence with the child, whether he can connect to the program or not, and what happened to him again with the Internet... But parents could take sickness benefit, parental leave, and stay at home with the child and receive the sickness benefit accordingly. But where is the problem? I'll remind you again. The problem is, as I have already pointed out (also in the public space) that a small part of the parents are taken out of the sickness benefit simply for that reason! - that this sickness benefit, equivalent to 60 per cent of the national social security contributions, does not cover a shortfall in the amount of the funds incurred by the parent when leaving work temporarily. This shortfall shall be covered by 80 per cent of the social security contributions. And that's why this proposal would also work to the benefit of... and for the benefit of those who fear that there are so many people at work. It would also help Ugam Dumpim and Mr. Perevoščikov not to be afraid of any more illness if we let parents calmly, not nervous, not worried about their family budgets, take normal leave, talk to the employer and stay at home to help children complete this difficult... the last stage of this most difficult school year. We call on you to support this proposal. We will, of course, also call for a further talk about those parents who work at a distance and try to combine work with child training, but we are calling for 80 percent of social contributions to be supported this time. Thank you, colleagues. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U85	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U86	In the Commission, the 7th proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U87	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - the motion submitted by Members Stepanenko and Svekov! Please, let's vote! On - 34, against - 48, refraining from - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U88	8 / 8 - the proposal of Members Stepanenko and Svekov. This proposal also provides for the delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to develop the necessary amendments to the regulatory enactments so that persons whose family member is a subject of education who have purchased computer equipment for study needs during the pandemic may include these costs in the purchase of computer equipment in the eligible expenditure. In the Commission, the 8th proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U89	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U90	Yeah, thank you. The distance learning regime has been in place across the country since last autumn. Also remotely, since October 14th... it's already a certain number of... and children engage in education of interests at a distance. For parents, these restrictions imposed an additional financial burden, i.e. the financial burden is reflected in the need to purchase computer equipment to ensure the development of children. I think if we talk about a digital country, if we talk and say at government level that we are moving towards smart reindustrialisation, then it is necessary that children and families have access to computer equipment. I believe that one of the tools that could support families that could also make it possible to purchase modern and high-quality computer equipment in families could be a tax relief for the purchase of computer equipment for families with educational children. The use of this type of instrument would bring additional benefits. This would enable the digital skills of the child to be developed first and foremost, would allow to save family budget resources and would also allow, in a corresponding context with a future perspective, to ensure a much more competitive generation of growth in Latvia. Therefore, I believe that one way to motivate and stimulate children and education in particular could be to tax relief for the purchase of computer equipment for the family. I therefore ask my colleagues to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U91	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U92	Good afternoon, Madam President, colleagues. I call on you to support this proposal and to address the ruling coalition. By granting a allowance of EUR 500 per child up to a certain age, you have been making a lot of communication that this money should be spent on the purchase of computers. Today we heard an oath from the Ombudsman, and it was Juris Jansons who, some five and six years ago, achieved that there really is free education in Latvia. This proposal is precisely because the text of the Education Act, which is to be purchased by parents to ensure the teaching process, speaks to some extent of pencils, typewriters and paper, but the computer is not considered to be a pencil and to be written at this moment, when there is a pandemic, when remote learning is introduced, not as a normal process, but as an exceptional case. I invite you to support your parents so that they can recover their contribution to the provision of training in accordance with the procedure established in the country and comply with the requirements of the Education Law on Free Education. In this case, I am talking about compulsory education at primary level, i.e. the parents of five-year-old, six-year-old and first-to-nine-class pupils. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U93	The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U94	Colleagues! Well, here's... I am referring directly to the New Conservative Party - you have excellent financiers, you are even trying to compete with the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. It seems to me that this is a huge opportunity for you to prove yourself, knowing that you are still managing the Ministry of Education and Science. Check if you spend almost four million computers, about 6200 portable computers were purchased if I am not mistaken when I read from the news... Well, eligible expenditure... We're... But man doesn't recover the full amount. You could, after all, save support for this law. I call on you to count, explain to yourself and support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U95	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U96	Colleagues, I would just like to say that, in the Commission, we heard the arguments of the Ministry of Finance, which is rather strange. So these proposals were the Ministry of Finance (of course, the Ministry of Finance is always against all the good and the votes for summer accession - there is no objection from the Ministry of Finance), but that argument was quite ridiculous - that we do not, by nature, currently have a concession for the purchase of goods, only for the purchase of services. It was about the purchase of services, which are, for example, the payment of interest education teams, the payment of training, the payment of dental services, and so on... So, in the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, if we put a product in this standard, then actually the end of the world will happen, because the product cannot be put in this article at all, it is not possible. But the fact that we have now stopped the hours of provision of interest education services... And really, experts admit that it is impossible to deliver education of interests remotely, because it is - children don't understand... Small children weep when they don't understand what movements they can make, where the Internet disappears at the same time and in what way and why everyone has already mastered one movement, but you are not yet able. And right here, you have to be afraid that you've missed something. As a result, children now experience all the hours of distance education as well as the far-reaching activities of interest education. If you do not have small children from the first to the fourth class, you simply do not understand who goes through the children and what injury they are currently having thanks to your decisions. Computer purchase compensation, partial compensation from personal income tax... relief - this is the least you can do at all to support your parents in this hard fight. The little one! I call for support. I would like to hear what Mr. Znotiņš will tell us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U97	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U98	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, First of all, I wanted to remind myself of what has been done to purchase smart devices and hardware. The first to be mentioned is that in 2018-2020, EUR 23 million was channelled from the European funds directly for digitisation and purchase of smart devices. The Ministry of Education and Science further purchased and sent 11 500 smart devices to municipalities in 2020 as a result of the communion crisis, including computers, tablets and mobile phones. They were delivered to municipalities and passed on to schools so that they could be transferred to the use of both teachers and children and parents. At the same time was provided on these devices... 5600 of these devices also had access to the Internet free of charge. In the future, the Ministry of Education and Science has planned EUR 10.5 million from European funds to continue to cover the needs for smart devices by purchasing computers and providing further assistance in 2021. At the same time, I would like to remind my fellow Members of the EUR 500 aid for every child, so that support will be available... will be paid as soon as possible. Thus, on various social sites, we see that it is precisely the purchase of smart devices, the purchase of computers, which is referred to as one of the purposes for which this benefit could be used, and this will certainly benefit the situation. We would like to hear more of the arguments of the Ministry of Finance and the State Revenue Service about this particular proposal. Unfortunately, I have not heard that, because in fact, if we also offer... If some parents decide to buy smart devices for this €500 support, they could also look at this in fact... include tax incentives. So that I want to hear, and I will certainly ask the Ministry of Finance what the reasoning was. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U99	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U100	Colleagues! I understand the situation is quite amusing. If you're in times of crisis... During this pandemic, you can get to the dentist, then you can include the dentist’s expenses as eligible expenses. If you are in a situation of crisis when you don't have one of these pretty many computers that are bought by the state... However, there are still just as many cases where computers are not available to children. And also - there are no carters, and the Internet is a lighthouse at all. Look, we got some Saeima sitting yesterday... My colleague Regina was on the Internet. The improvements to be made by households to be able to participate qualitatively in the learning process are clear. This 500 euros... In my opinion, it is not right to link this EUR 500 to the purchase of smart devices. This EUR 500, at least in my view, is a support measure as such for families in these difficult circumstances. But the proposal is quite logical, complementary and correct to the common system. So I would call for this, however, because it shows it very clearly... makes it possible for families to take care of it, for the state to count it. This is not an end intricate administration. From personal income tax, we're about a billion... A billion euros are not collected annually in various eligible expenditures, reliefs and so on. Since this one supplement would, in my opinion, give more than a loss to the public budget and to those households and families that are in such a situation, it would be possible not to wait for the country to send them a computer, but to buy it and take it for itself for the purchase of a computer. That would be right. I call on you to support and come back. In my opinion, this is a very targeted and clear support mechanism for every member of society in this crisis situation and is directly relevant to this law on the management of the spread of Covid-19 infection. If we are talking about relief in general and different eligible expenditures, then it is quite the other way - this is exactly the right direction to go. We should review those concessions that may not work as they should during the crisis, perhaps not fair at this point, but introduce the ones that are needed. There are crisis conditions, there is the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection, and in these circumstances a computer (or learning process, or work), the Internet - these are eligible expenditure, they must clearly be included. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U101	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U102	Thank you, colleagues. I just want to add that those EUR 500 over this half-year while people are... and families are in a distance learning regime, and do not even cover expenses related to the increase in child feeding costs. And when you're at home... the packages distributed by the municipalities do not in fact ensure the full quality of what children eat while in school. That's one thing. So, yes, definitely well-situated families use it to purchase computer equipment, to purchase high-quality equipment. But it must also be seen that, above all, the level of family welfare is not the same, especially in regions. When it comes to providing computers that were purchased by the Ministry of Education and Science, those computers were now supplied to the low-income or families, who could also define themselves as a family of underincome, and then the municipality supports, not provide, for example, most families. This proposal is more forward-looking - with the aim of directly encouraging and allowing families to acquire modern, high-quality techniques and, consequently, to provide children with better and more competitive learning conditions. It must be understood that in Latvia the gap between poverty and wealth is very large. About 40... to 40 percent of households are on the poverty line. I do not believe that, with a huge number of figures such as citizens, households on the poverty line, this instrument would not be a really good and effective tool to equalise or minimise the inequalities that apply in particular to families with children. Please support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U103	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U104	Colleagues! I do not believe that it would be right for us now to keep up with our parents' wallets and to indicate where they should spend this money if we were talking about the support of EUR 500. That is not right. This aid is not intended for the purchase of computer equipment, since the purchase of computer equipment would probably have to be carried out by the State. The State has not done so in relation to all parents. This is a constitutional right to education. Education was not provided by the state for all parents. It is clear, and it is surprising that we do not yet have a complaint to the Constitutional Court about the parents... on restrictions on the rights of the child. If we are talking about the reimbursement of eligible expenditure, then I do not think there could be any obstacles here, but we need to put the system in order. But to Mr Znotiņš, I could actually also say that we can find a number of positions where parents have had increased spending. Yes, one of the positions mentioned by Mrs Švekova is the feeding of children, which has not in any way been covered by many parents in the spring period. We also talked about the fact that very many parents will currently spend this EUR 500 on children's camps as soon as they are allowed, because it is... This will be the only way to help children to socialise in the summer. These camps, as you understand, do not cost either EUR 10 or EUR 20, there is a huge investment needed. So please do not try to regulate your parents ’ wallets now, do not try to indicate where they should spend the money now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U105	Name of Member Karina Sprūdė for the second time
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U106	Colleagues! I would like to keep up with the numbers. It is clear that in our country, a person can only deduct eligible expenses from taxable income once. And this amount does not exceed a maximum of EUR 600. The cost of one device purchased by the Ministry of Education and Science is EUR 634. I would simply like to highlight and say that it must not be perceived that it is some kind of support for people. I think it is in cooperation with the people and it is a mechanism by which we can save public resources. Otherwise, I suspect that it is simply a good thing for the Ministry of Education and Science to buy a particular device or to spend public funding or to learn European funds, because other reasons why you do not want to support this proposal are not clear to me. Numbers and mathematics show that it is a very welcome proposal that saves public resources and supports, motivates parents to perhaps also buy something better, take a check. It also combats the shadow economy. I therefore call on my colleagues to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U107	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U108	Hello! I want to turn to all those suckers that this year, which many people, most of society, are, well, such a very difficult and troublesome year... I want to turn to everyone... “E. Gulbja Labs”, with all mask vendors, buyers at high prices, with all the heads of the vaccination office and staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who sit at home in the underwear and enjoy annual paid holidays... in fact. I would like you from your good life and from your increased income, your bonuses and turnover... If the state cannot afford, then, you should reunion and help those people who are in trouble at whose expense you are currently living to buy computers. First of all, I want to turn to the E. Gulbja Laboratory. I'm reading those news portals and I'm reading how many dozens to tens! - one million have been spent in very interesting purchases at this time, and maybe you have such a record year, the E. Gulbja Laboratory, in income. Well, there's something... the company back! You live at the expense of the disaster of others, and that's fair... All those vaccination officials in five... How many of you are there... Thousands of you get... Well, that's half! Believe me, there are people in your place who would be willing to do the same thing as you... You don't do anything right now. For two and a half thousand you can buy several computers for kids. All the rest of you there, I don't know... everywhere in a row, where you spend, in the newspapers, in the vaccination newspapers... Probably there will be a horoscope, like matching the vaccine with the Weights or Mezzanine. I think we need to start looking at you in a way that is co-responsible, you who are living in another misfortune, the difficulties of others - you are co-responsible! It's not just a country. They're also doctors who live in another disaster and don't talk like it is... otherwise we will never get out of this situation. It is clear that Karin will not be over. There is no doubt about this. It is clear that Levit will not be over. It is clear that Šuplinska will not be over. They don't have such a duke, they can, they can, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't. Most of the public realise that empty spaces are empty, but the public must start to demand... Society, at your expense, also at your expense, at the expense of the flashing and clear aunts, some are now very well earned - at the expense of the accident, because the bad times are not good times, are bad times. And don't give back anything... Also the concert hall, by the way, about those many tens of millions... could earn. I will remind you that, by the way, in the best times “Latvian Railway” did not seem to me to be as good as “E. Gulbja Laboratory” now. Interesting, why? Then we have to return to society, then start sponsoring students, education, and build a concert hall. If Zuzans cannot build a concert hall, then “E. Gulbja Laboratory” can do so. And we have to stop milking the people. How long? The people must be given freedom to breathe, live, rejoice, work. And, nation, you can change... You just have to believe in yourself. You can change this all. We must have the courage and trust in ourselves. And I believe you can do that. I believe, the people of Latvia, that you are strong and that you will get courage, and you will succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U109	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U110	In the Commission, this proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U111	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - the motion submitted by Members Stepanenko and Svekov! Please, let's vote! For - 37, for - 47, for - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U112	9. - the proposal of Members Stepanenko and Svekov. Provision is made for a reduced VAT rate of five per cent for public catering. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U113	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U114	Dear colleagues, I understand that perhaps someone in the Bureau felt that our proposals were so minor that we could drive them out quickly in 15 minutes, but that is not the case. It was a mistake indeed - to give up the opportunity to see everything in the normal order. We are currently talking about reduced VAT for public catering, which is, in my opinion, a very important issue, and this issue does not deserve us to fix it, fix it, run through before the break. Public catering at the moment, if you perhaps failed to notice it, is going through a rather severe crisis, to put it mildly, and those restaurants, catering sites that are trying to survive at the moment, are really doing it, well, the last forces and waiting - are waiting very much! - to the government's action to allow catering, whether outside or not, as you have at present allowed, at least, children to communicate in one way or another outside. This issue is still being postponed and, as we can see, it is also the draft law on Covid-19 in the law on the management of the spread of infection (No. 933/Lp13)... You have encouraged us, as we can see, to bring this draft law back to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, because it is in this draft law that there are a number of proposals from Members of the Saeima on how we could at last simply lighten these restrictions. Is it because Uga Dumpis said that all the restrictions now need to be made much more serious, or there is another problem with the vaccination office - I find it hard to judge this, you know it yourself. But the question is that public catering must be helped, public catering must be supported as it does in many European countries. And we remember that still in the spring, we did not have very few votes, the CPV LV, so that we could ensure reduced VAT for public catering. The catering sector has been fighting for reduced VAT for years - even before the pandemic, the so-called pandemic. When there were several presentations at the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, every budget meeting (I remember it very well)... Every year there were presentations about the need to reduce VAT in order to survive the industry in order to survive honest entrepreneurs. It is being ignored all the time. Now that we're left, I don't know how many hand-to-hand restaurants working in Old Town are still trying to do something about it. You're refusing to help even those who work for the last force. I really call on you, fellow Members, to take this measure seriously, to take taxpayers seriously, who provide you with this peaceful life, to give you the opportunity to come up with new restrictions. Help the restaurant industry, help public catering, reduce VAT! And this is not aid, it is not aid - it is an accessory that will then help several survive. And when the restrictions are lifted, we hope that at least one day will happen, there will be a lot... These entrepreneurs, with their support, will have opportunities to survive and go out of debt. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U115	The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U116	Hello, colleagues! I would like to point out that, about a year ago, I myself had put forward a proposal on reduced VAT, but I still very much remember the moment that the Saeima sitting was destroyed so that this issue could not move forward. The vote would probably have been modest at that point, but thanks to this disillusioned sitting and also to the impact that the ruling coalition had on the CPV LV Members, who then did not support this proposal, I believe that neither the government nor many Members have any distance to see how all sectors could develop further. In my view, already in spring 2020, this reduced VAT of five per cent... If not five per cent, then at least 12 per cent of the aid... reduced VAT, as this would still allow economic operators to make some additional savings that could be useful for future operations. And, I see, this moment also came in autumn 2020, when the businessmen were forced to close their doors. Also, let us say, taking part in a meal - it does not, however, compensate for the opportunity to cover all the work costs and also for the full... to survive. This was, I think, a very big mistake. I am also personally offended by many CPV LV Members who previously promised their support for the sector. But if we look a little ahead now, then at some point we have to go back to this debate and it would be ideal, of course, to vote now on this proposal. Because it is one thing to remember: will entrepreneurs who will return to this business at all be willing to pay taxes? In the Commission on Public Expenditure and Audit, I ask many questions to both the Ministry of Finance and the State Revenue Service - are you developing a plan to motivate entrepreneurs to continue paying taxes? For the same beauty industry, catering, sports and tourism... Is that so? How interested are they? There is no answer to these questions at present. And then you have to understand what kind of thinking is at all. At present, when I hear representatives from the Ministry of Health itself or from other institutions, I can see only: the main thing is how to learn money, i.e. how to get into e-health, i.e. through these newspapers, information material. The crown was all bright yesterday, when it came from the State Chancellery and told us about these financial resources that will be invested in these events. And with the question, do you want to have a summer? Well, in order for you to have a summer, we need to invest in additional financial resources so that you can tell us how the summer should be expected. Consequently, I believe that these actions, which are aimed at entrepreneurs, such as the recovery and follow-up, are not well targeted and new incentive measures should be provided in addition. I still believe that reducing VAT could be one of the most effective ways of reducing the shadow economy as well, and of helping entrepreneurs make additional savings. Thank you. There's a substance to think about. Of course, I am very well aware of how many Members will vote. I regret to say... and I understand these coalition rules, but I also call on the CPV LV to remember that people were told that many sensible decisions would be supported, regardless of whether it is a coalition or opposition. But the reality is different. Then we'll see how you try to tell people how you're... how you will base your votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U117	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U118	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! This situation, which has developed around tax policy in our country and all the proposals to use tax incentives in general, is indeed very interesting, namely reduced VAT rates to deal with one or the other issue. I would even say that it seems that at the level of the Ministry of Finance, we are even talking about almost religious beliefs, almost some cult, that in no case should we allow the use of these tax incentives, such a postulate of reironomics. In addition, it is quite interesting that this does not apply to cases where, for example, it is proposed to reduce excise duty on alcohol, which, by its very nature, is the same as VAT, only one is counted as a percentage, the other as an absolute sum. So, when it comes to alcohol, about attracting Estonian spiritists, in the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, this tax relief is a purely good and effective instrument, but in the case of restaurants, public catering, in other sectors - by no means. Similarly, when we managed to introduce reduced VAT on fruit and vegetables, we saw how the Ministry of Finance then started to write reports, public communication about how good and effective this instrument, the reduced VAT on fruit and vegetables, is. That's... Reeuronomics has never been known with its consistent position. I have tried quite a lot to understand what then explains this religious belief, this cult, this postulated reironomics. I understood - as we also heard recently in this new reironomics, so to say, what the participant - the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Zakatistova - said, that this reduced VAT is why we need it - but we have 20 or how many benefits. Thus, the Ministry of Finance and, at times, the coalition Members, and generally the government considers tax relief and benefit... that one euro tax relief and one euro benefit is the same. But colleagues, if you were to learn the economy more carefully (of course, on condition that those with higher education and who had some kind of economic course in this higher education, then certainly the first attempt was at the introductory level, it is usually the first course; if the introductory level fails, then the second, the third course, which is the so-called medium-level micro-economy, is the law of demand. All those who have understood or were taught the law of demand should understand that one euro benefit and one euro as tax relief is not the same thing. It would be the same as you would have given one euro in public catering, and then this one would have attracted another EUR in private sector funding, for example, at 50 cents. That might seem so unimaginable to you... some fiction, but that is exactly what the law of demand means. Consequently, what we see is simply a clear economic ignore or, in other words, a lack of competence, because at least those in the leading positions of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics, should enter the economy into it, at an average level sufficiently well to know. If you do not understand yourself, you should hire consultants, officials who would at least understand it. Of course, it may be unnecessary to talk about the clear incompetentness of the government. It's just one of the-- how much? - 100 and/or 1000... well, but because of the protocol, what you're going to do again is a clear incompetentness. The waste of taxpayers - that is what you are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U119	The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U120	Colleagues! Well, the first feeling is that I want to linger and ask if you're really so incompetent and stupid, so... government and government representatives. Back the year, when it was the first wave, I followed a market that is happening in Latvia. For example, in Liepaja. All right, all right. com - announcements about the sale of hotels and great and beautiful buildings. People realized there was no future. Better to sell and get rid of some property than to stay in debt and to start some kind of insolvency proceedings... Unfortunately. Over the course of the year we saw that support mechanisms in the country are not working at all, all statements from the State Revenue Service were simply a fool of people. I remember there was some action back the year for the State Revenue Service - to pay all debts, we will give you reliefs. There was nothing! Entrepreneurs complain, entrepreneurs write and say, where is that trust? Words do not match works. And those graphs that were given to entrepreneurs (I am talking now about restaurants)... Economic operators were able to draw up timetables by paying minimum contributions. But what happens? What do we see now? Suddenly, the operator receives a statement that he still has to repay the remainder, and the deadline is, for example, on Monday. Is it normal in an emergency on the part of the country? - I even wanted to ask. It is immoral now to destroy the last things left in our country at all. First. We already talked about a reduction in VAT, very... Two years ago. He said it was a big lobby. The Latvian Restaurant Association invited you to yourself, where representatives of restaurants in the open language told you how they were taking this scheme with VAT, that if there were a VAT reduction of around 10, even 11 percent, it was just... we could also fight the shadow economy. They were ready to come out of this shadow economy. What are we doing? Nothing. We limit them, we send them warnings, we close their business, I think it's very unfair. What future awaits us here in Latvia - is not clear. Secondly. What else did I want to tell you? About the statement by the State Chancellery yesterday at the Public Expenditure and Audit Commission. Well, wonderful! When we make the remuneration of public officials, we must not compare with the private sector, but they have the shadow economy, we cannot compare ourselves, and we need to raise that salary, yes, we need to raise it. When we see what decisions we made, it is clear that we are not educated, not competent people in our public administration... I have to change, raise wages to attract smart people, because what's happening now... I don't know what experts are working on you there. That's one. Second. The shadow economy. If entrepreneurs offered you resuscitation measures that, for example, time-limits for a reduction in VAT for some time while there is an emergency, why didn't you respond? That's why... We, the opposition, without experts, can follow where you are, where there are your statements, where there are your working groups, where there are results. No results. Well, we... Take Germany! For the time being, Germany has 15 percent for the supply of VAT and seven percent for the reception of orders. Why aren't we doing anything? I'm sorry, I think, yes, I have to start... announcing an emergency situation, we'll be sitting here until midnight... ready to work. Well, what are you... What agenda are you doing? I'm sorry! I call for this proposal to be supported and for the sector to be supported so that they can just stand up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U121	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U122	President of the Saeima. Colleagues! About this (A sound break.) ... proposal... I believe that I am a soundbreaker. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U123	Dear colleagues, Obviously there are problems with the Internet, so it must be understood whether it is a Member in the Valainis system...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U124	Do you hear me, Chairman of the Saeima?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U125	Yeah, I hear, I hear. Can we continue the debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U126	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U127	Once again, Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U128	It seems to me that I have a problem perhaps (A sound break.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U129	Please log in again so that you can apply. Please apply again for a debate, Mr Valaiņš. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U130	Thank you. Hopefully, we were able to deal with this technical problem. Colleagues! When it comes to this proposal, I think more needs to be said here about the common changes in tax policy, which have unfortunately happened. They took place with the adoption of this year's budget, where the government took exactly the opposite steps as to what would have been applicable in times of crisis. The government has, by nature, eliminated the speciality (the sound defect.) ... The government went completely in the opposite direction than it should have done in a crisis situation. The tax reform took place, in substance, at the time this year's budget was adopted. If someone tells you that tax reform will take place sometime, in time, there will be nothing yet... With regard to these tax incentives (Sound defect.) ... in the proposal for a hotel, the restaurant industry, I think (A sound break.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U131	Colleagues, it's obviously a break in the Internet. The system, platform e-Saema, works without delay, and here is no problem with internet coverage. So obviously there are problems with Member Viktor Valainis. Let us continue the debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U132	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, If we are talking about the sectors affected by the crisis - we have debated a lot and a lot about the list - which are the most affected by these restrictions - where people are left without work, where employers suffer substantial losses. They also have to pay credit, they have to maintain their infrastructure, where they provide this service in very many different ways. We are talking about the catering sector, as in the next proposal, about hospitality, about accommodation... Then we have to understand that these are the two sectors that first received the greatest blow and where very many people - households, small... family entrepreneurs - now beaks, beaks pull ends. Many of their employees had already been laid off to endure this period, hoping that the moment would come shortly after they could resume their activities. But this moment is moving and moving, so the light at the end of the tunnel is becoming more dull and dull until so many are completely destroyed. We have talked to many different entrepreneurs whose employees have left the country or are going to do so. But there are some entrepreneurs who still have hopes of working in this sector and opening up and providing a service on our territory, in our country, and paying taxes. What we can do right now... I understand that the government does not come forward with real support and, if any support has been provided, it has been butaphoric and a large part of it has been called for, then the country can now come forward and reduce this value added tax. It is such an elemental, small step that this sector survives somehow, because part of it has now, of course, re-profiled into the take-up of products, to deliveries, but none of it is even 50 percent of cases, as it was before the Covid-19 restrictions. We can go right here to the most popular canteen in the Saeima, where many Members are going, and talk to people there what the drop in turnover was. That's 70-80 percent. The beaks of this family pull their ends together. We can make this little promise: to reduce value added tax for those who work in good faith. Let us also bear in mind one more fact that such circumstances, which are at the time of the pandemic, require many entrepreneurs to reflect on their attitude towards paying taxes in good faith. Let's not hide, I admit that you yourself understand that there are many entrepreneurs left... who no longer pay the State any taxes at all... Those who still exist to some extent because they have to feed their families, their offspring, who are sitting at home now and in Microsoft Teams, are learning in e-class, and for many people this is a hysteria. It is very simple for us Members: we receive an advance in the middle of the month, at the beginning of the month of pay, and there are such or these restrictions, we do not change anything. The same is true for ministers. For entrepreneurs, small businesses, family entrepreneurs, this is very, very important. Therefore, colleagues, I really call on you to support this proposal so that society retains some belief in the decision-making power, some faith in the executive, that it is not all so bad and that the state comes in at least elementary steps. That is why, colleagues, we really support this proposal! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U133	I have a question: does Mr Valaiņa want to take part in the debate? Have technical problems been eliminated? If so, you can apply. For the time being, Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U134	Good afternoon, everybody! Continuing the debate on the Keins cross launched by Vjačeslav Dombrovskis, I would like to draw the public's attention to this debate at the moment, to the way in which this proposal is discussed and decided, because I think it is very significant that very clearly shows the competence with which this power seeks to address the problems of the country and what is connected with the community. This, in my opinion, is also the answer why we, the whole country, do not do so, because indeed both competence and capacity do not go away. That is, if we look specifically at this case, so if we are talking about the hospitality sector, then there has been a debate for years about the need to reduce the rate of value added tax. For a long time, the authorities have avoided this because they believe that such a solution could be fiscally painful for the budget. Similarly, I remember, too, with fresh vegetables and fruits, which also had to be long-term... There was a long, long debate about the need to reduce the rate of value added tax, and the Ministry of Finance told me how terrible it would be, as it would be... How many million we lose. At the end of the day, all these estimates were wrong. What is happening in the current situation? So we are talking about reducing the rate of value added tax by five percent for public catering. If so far the Ministry of Finance had any arguments against it, then of course they were about the fiscal impact on the budget, but now, colleagues - now! - turnover is hardly at all for these sectors, it has fallen significantly. It would then be the right moment for this industry to really want to listen and come to them, because there is a fundamental difference here. One thing that Vyacheslav referred to when speaking about one euro in an allowance or one euro in a tax credit, here is another matter of principle. One euro benefit - this means that you have clearly spent this euro and someone will have to give it back. On the other hand, if we are talking about this discount for one euro, for one euro per tax, it means that the businessman has already earned something (I am talking about value added tax), it means that there will be an economic activity, which will have worked, which will have paid for it, both income tax, social insurance and other taxes that would have been linked to it all. In essence, I think that, in this situation, even taking into account the turnover of this sector, we will have a fiscal positive effect rather than a negative one. If that is not the case, I would like one of the coalitions of power to apply to the Ministry of Finance, Parliamentary Secretary... for this debate. It should be compulsory now to talk and justify why you do not want to support this proposal. If you do not have such a justification, then it is a proof that you are again deciding something pointless, simply fearing the eyes and without understanding what you are doing. Unfortunately, this has been the case all the time, and that is why our government has a plan A, a plan B, a plan C and, finally, a plan D. And that is what you are doing all the time, even now. Therefore, colleagues, I call on you to take part in this debate and to rebut my claims, to say, to prove that I do not have the truth, to apply then to one of the coalitions or to apply for first and foremost to a representative of the Ministry of Finance and to contest it. If you don't, it's... you show, with your silence, that my statements have been absolutely right. And I call on the whole of society to draw conclusions on the capacity and competence of this power and on the consequences that this action is having. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U135	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U136	Good afternoon, colleagues! Perhaps this is not about the Keins Cross, but about the law of demand, however, the Keins Cross is something else. Colleagues, Ivars Zarins asked a very well-founded question. Why is the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance not present in all of this debate? These are his direct job duties. Colleagues, let us ask a question when, last time, we have heard the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, who is taking part in the parliamentary sittings on Thursday? The same can be said, by the way, of many other parliamentary secretaries. I understand it doesn't work. Colleagues! The commission of terms of office, ethics and application considered whether our fellow Member Digim Schmit, who does not participate in the remote sittings of the Saeima in principle, should not take away the Member's mandate and dismiss or in some way not pay his wages. I will ask the Commission on Mandates, ethics and application: perhaps you should discuss those parliamentary secretaries who do not fulfil their direct responsibilities. Where are they? Why and for what do they receive the reward? I think this is a much more logical issue in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U137	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U138	In the Commission, this proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U139	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - the motion submitted by Members Stepanenko and Svekov! Please, let's vote! About - 35, against - 48, refrains - 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U140	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of Members Stepanenko and Svekov. A reduction in the VAT rate of five per cent for accommodation services in tourist accommodation is foreseen. In the Commission, the 10th proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U141	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U142	Colleagues! We see this wonderful consistency from our colleagues who, as a coalition, are always trying to flirt with the restaurant industry, but here we see that this vote is printable and transferable, certainly put in a frame at the wall of each restaurant - who voted in favour, who voted against. Likewise, this vote on support for the tourism sector would also be a frame for those tourist accommodations that, in these circumstances, are trying to survive, trying to find some solutions - a restaurant inside a hotel within a single household, that is to say, the provision of lunch, and in all other ways really trying to make different offers so that you can even pay all the bills for the maintenance of real estate. We believe that the tourism service also needs support, given that we are currently serving mainly ourselves - so only Latvian citizens, how much it is, as it is. Accordingly, our hotels, which were, of course, tourist-oriented, are not currently experiencing the easiest time. We see this, and we are calling for support for the proposal to reduce VAT to five percent for tourist accommodation services. We call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U143	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U144	Dear colleagues, again! This is absolutely not the first time, of course, when this issue is being discussed. I have proposed this several times, as proposed by our fellow Member Kaspars Ģirgens, even by your coalition Minister for Economics, Vitenberg. But let's think that's logical. If we have two alternative instruments such as support for the hotel sector, because I hope that no one here doubts that this support is necessary for the hotel industry in the current situation... So, on the one hand, we have a VAT relief. What are the benefits? It is not just that the company will pay less tax on its, of course, much, much less turnover. That's because it's going to have a lower tax... Since this tax is calculated on the basis of the price, the company will also certainly reduce the price, perhaps even one to one. By reducing the price, there is an additional effect because it brings extra money, because those travelers... Of course, in this situation they will be mostly domestic travellers, but they are, and are not, small, then those domestic travellers, seeing that the price is even lower, will decide to travel more often, for example, to Latgale, to which regions, to stay overnight and so. It will bring extra money. The law of demand, colleagues. If we have... on the other hand, there is aid, a grant, and there is no such aid. Consequently, as I said before, here, one euro is not equal to one euro if we are talking about this type of aid with tax relief and support through an allowance. But with the allowance, colleagues, as we know, we have another problem. Benefits are drawn up by the Ministry of Finance, which, of course, has a direct responsibility to protect the state purse, and on that, they must be admitted, very, very good... So the Ministry of Finance is doing everything possible to impose such criteria for getting this benefit that, if you talk to those entrepreneurs, to hotel owners and so on, then you will understand that there are not few who even choose to apply for this benefit - because if you don't support it... if there is a non-compliance with one or the other point, criterion or criterion... You know very well yourself, colleagues, that we have just made a decision to pay EUR 500 per child to each Latvian family. Absolutely for everyone - it is not quite right because some have suffered more, some have suffered less, but we have made their decision, and you have also made that decision precisely because even the coalition has understood that the Ministry of Finance is not capable of developing targeted support. Perhaps this is why we have not seen Mr Zakatistov here for a long time. Perhaps he has just a shame that is understandable. I think he's instead of any normal man... or if I were here... is a huge shame for what is happening and what they do. Then, colleagues, this is your job - yours, fellow Members, yours! You should have understood, by talking to your constituents, among whom there are definitely both regional hotels and catering sites, that what is happening is wrong. So the right support path has not been chosen. But what you're doing... When you've been last time, have you talked to your constituents? This must have been the case before the elections. You are on those party lists, and in general, what you are concerned about is what you will be told, what are the new instructions from the coalition board and whether you will be put in the next elections by the party board with a number like that or otherwise. This, colleagues... Even in this electoral system, this must change. We have to go, though... the Lithuanian option must be introduced, at least in part, so that at least part of us are really accountable to the voters, not to the coalition council and the party board, so that it is up to the voters to choose whether you are elected or not, or to put a number on the party list. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U145	The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U146	Colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is absolutely no surprise like the vote. It is difficult, however, I understand the Members to think about how difficult these sectors are at the moment and likely to be even more difficult, because this pandemic, I believe, will not disappear anywhere, but I just wanted to inform you... to inform you that on Tuesday at 12.00, the Public Expenditure and Audit Commission will address the issue of tax support measures for sectors affected by the Covid-19 crisis. Of course, there are also invited from the State Revenue Service and the Ministry of Finance, I very much hope that Parliamentary Secretary will be present. So, my colleagues, please join us, there will certainly be a lot of questions about how to live on these sectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U147	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U148	I wanted a little rejoinder to what Mr. Girgen said: Kaspars, if he wants to sit on two chairs, then it usually falls from both. It's about you criticising KPV LV, whose votes are decided in this particular vote, which is about humane Latvia, but it looks like inhumane. You're still a member of this organization... together with those people who vote against. So, of course, there is a big question, why are you with people who vote against and continue to be? Does that sound like a speech from the pub, if it's actually... Well, do you support such people in nature? I don't think you should if you're a politician... You can't sit on two chairs, but you have to choose whether you're a nation or you're against a nation. Either you are with those who consistently vote against their promises or you are bolder, perhaps also temporarily giving up your appointments.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U149	Colleagues, I will remind you, however, that this is a proposal on the rate of VAT, not on the vote of one or the other Member or on the participation of one or the other Member in a political... at one or the other's political power. The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U150	I would like a little bit to keep what Aldis started. I am calling and appealing directly to the CPV LV, because I think you are taking on the very heavy burden - as if you are doing something, but no proposal is in favour of you. I understand that the Ministry of Economics has already prepared... There was some working group that prepared a series of proposals to support the sector, but the result... You understand that if you are creating some kind of activity, you are spending both your time and your state resources, but the result is, unfortunately, zero! I hope you've realised within two years that you're using... you are very naive, starting with the abolition of the OIC and ending with this hotel industry.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U151	Colleagues, indeed, please debate the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U152	Unfortunately, the Minister for Economics, who is Wittenberg, has made these proposals both on the term... A three-year reduction in VAT, if I understand correctly, was a proposal... No one supported it. I hope that you support your Minister for Economic Affairs, the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, you support your colleagues. I call on you to support and vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U153	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U154	I wanted to say in addition that there is no reduction in VAT on hotels, restaurants and on everything else - without supporting children in education and so on - the National Union, it contains this government. If the National Association were to leave the government, then finally it would start to support the proposals on both VAT and everything else. The biggest enemies of the people in general are the National Union. What I want to say to my colleagues in the position - those who are going to cast down this government, unlike all the other times, will get plus points in their ranking of popularity, so that you do not be afraid to throw down this government, which rejects all the proposals that support entrepreneurs, and so on. It's high time to do that. But for society, especially for those who may not have studied - for you to understand: all these proposals in a row, you saw today - both education, children, support, VAT reduction and everything else... It is the National Union that votes against its people all the time and holds this government, and holds such a president and a Prime Minister. They have a decisive influence, and that is why they are the most responsible - with all Inara Mūrnieki. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U155	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U156	Yes, I will probably have to agree, however, with what Vjačeslav Dombrovskis said that this debate is not about the Keins cross, because it is really necessary to look at the broader macroeconomic context, but it is more than the stupidity of power and the failure of action. Although, Vjačeslav, you yourself described how this Kains model works, namely, when it comes to creating an additional cash inflow, additional demand... such changes as are proposed. So, in principle, you have described how this model that you have called for works and how it will have an impact on the macro-economics. But, of course, unfortunately, those who make a decision do not understand these relationships and they do not even understand what they are talking about at all. That is what I would remind the entire public once again, who is listening to and following, when we call on the Ministry of Finance to take part in this debate and to explain why they do not support this proposal... this is also about reducing value added tax for the hospitality sector. I call on one of the coalitions to apply. If there is no Parliamentary Secretary in the Ministry of Finance (it is not understood what he is doing, what he is doing, why he is not present in this debate), come to one of the coalitions and justify your position why you do not support this proposal and show your competence. Show your capacity, show your responsibility as you are currently leading this country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U157	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Mr. Valains, we can't hear you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U158	Thank you, Mrs. Mourniece. On this proposal, however, I would like to call for its support, despite the fact that there are so many of these different considerations from the Ministry of Finance at this moment that this proposal has a huge fiscal impact. At the end of the day, however, we can see clearly that no larger political... there will be no change in tax policy. And if you look at the economy, there are a whole range of areas that work very well in these circumstances and that, if you can say so, have not been affected by the pandemic. Those who have suffered make it very clear that this is a solution that can help them. I call for this proposal to be supported by a sector that has also drawn attention, because today's government's proposals are, unfortunately, unable to help everyone. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U159	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U160	In the Commission, this proposal, 10, was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U161	Let us vote in favour of 10. - the motion submitted by Members Stepanenko and Svekov! Please, let's vote! For - 34, for - 50, for - 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U162	Thank you. All the proposals have been examined. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law on the second, final reading of the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2217-U163	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the control of the spread of infection” (No. 973/Lp13) in the second, final, reading! Please, let's vote! For -67, for -1, for -16. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting has been examined. I would like to inform you of our further work today. Dear colleagues, I have also checked the text sent yesterday to Members by the Saeima Administration on the procedure for the announced sittings. I agree that it could be better formulated, so once again it is clear. After this meeting, we will continue with the agenda of the sitting, which was not reviewed on 11 March. It is to be followed by a discussion of the agenda for the sitting which had not been held on 25 February and, thereafter, of the agenda for the second extraordinary meeting on 18 March. Dear colleagues, Yesterday the work was also finished by the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission, which has examined and led the Saeima to final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Administrative Territories and Residents”. So, for the final reading. The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government is also planning to meet at the break to examine the draft law “Amendment to Law “On Assistance in Addressing Apartment Issues””. We will wait for the work of these commissions, and I allow the Bureau today to announce another extraordinary meeting to discuss these two draft laws. So, again. The next part-session is the continuation of the third part-session of 11 March, then the agenda of 25 February, pending, and then the agenda of the second remote emergency session of 18 March. Now the registration of Members. Registration is over. Dear colleagues, For a break. As the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government intends to meet during this break, the break will be an hour - up to one hour. Let us also adjust the time of the great break. So the big break is till 13:00. We will resume at 13.00 with a follow-up to the agenda for the 11 March meeting. I therefore closed my first remote emergency sitting on 18 March this year.
