ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-07-PT13-2230-U1	Dear colleagues, See the agenda of the first remote emergency session of the Saeima on 25 March 2021. Saeima Presidium reports. Draft Law “Amendment to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” (No. Lp13). The Cabinet has referred to this. This is therefore not to be considered. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law on Municipalities” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission and the State Administration and Municipal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For the proposal... Member Juris Pūce has applied for the transmission of the draft law. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-07-PT13-2230-U2	The President of the sitting is very respectful. High honourable Members! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Almost 30 years have passed since the adoption of the municipal law in 1994, and substantial changes have taken place not only in public administration but also in society and civil society. We need new forms of involvement... for the public... the management of local communities. This draft law approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, drafted by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, is a step towards creating modern administration in Latvian municipalities. A new comprehensive legal framework for local governments that is consistent with the age marks the reform of local government governance. I would like to highlight three issues that are actually covered by this law... in the draft law is essential... highlighted. One of them is the move towards a legal, effective, open administration. The second, which is essential, is the move towards further democratisation of the daily life of municipalities and greater involvement of society in decision-making. And finally the third is the change of functions, the responsibility of municipalities, consolidation, the capacity of functions... More precise regulation of the possibilities of implementation of municipal functions... The draft law is aimed at more efficient administration. The draft law is aimed at the involvement of the public. I would like to emphasise three points in the category of public involvement. The bill introduces the idea of a so-called participation budget, which is not new at all in Europe or in Latvia. Several municipalities have already tried this and have seen that, by giving citizens the opportunity to decide on a part of the municipal budget - where to invest directly in the development of the local authority's territory - this budget... it only enhances the interest of the public in the work of municipalities. It is now planned to extend to all municipalities, giving all Latvian citizens such rights. At the same time, the draft law provides for an opportunity for citizens to form councils in cities and parishes, as well as to give citizens an opportunity to submit a collective application in municipal councils (like the Saeima), thus addressing an issue of importance to the local community... Resolution. On the management side, the draft law makes a clearer distinction between the decision-making power and the executive power, and defines a clear division of competences and functions. The improved model of the organisation of activities of municipalities will reduce the possibility of different interpretations and application of legal norms, as unfortunately it has often been at the current rather outdated version of the law. The law... The draft law clarifies restrictions on the interconnection of office of the Council members; requires the establishment of an interinstitutional system of internal control; provides for open selection of candidates to the administration of local governments... posts, thus contributing to transparency in the work of local authorities. As regards the optimisation of municipal work and the introduction of digital solutions, issues of the work organisation of the Council and committees have been clarified. The availability of digital solutions has been addressed by allowing video conferencing, various forms of meeting... municipal meetings, thus modernising the common issue of daily work regulation of the municipality. The definitions of functions have been substantially revised. They have been made more precise by regulating the responsibility of local governments more clearly. A new function, clearly defined, is - to create a local police police in all municipalities from 2024. This was probably the result of the administrative adoption of the territorial reform; before that, it would be disproportionate for municipalities whose administrative and financial possibilities were so diverse. I call for support for this draft law to be passed on, examined by the Commission and for further progress to be made in the Saeima. I also call for clarification with regard to the Commission to which this draft law is passed - not to refer this draft law to the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission, to transfer only to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government and to designate only the Commission of State Administration and Local Government - for the examination of this draft law. Please support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-07-PT13-2230-U3	Mr. Viktors Valainis has applied for a speech. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-07-PT13-2230-U4	The President of the sitting. Dear colleagues, Thank you to Mr. Pouce for an insight into history. I'll start with an insight into history, too. 30 years ago, when the municipal legal framework was established, the Latvian Members of that time did one really valuable thing - they gave up the executive committees - from the executive committees that were typical of the Soviet Union... at the time of the leading mechanism, at the time of the management structure. But now... I would like to say that this law, which is being proposed... There are a number of things that are important in democracy... things that matter... and which is mainly specific to the executive committees... and exactly this governance model. If we are talking about how important this bill is... made, then... In reality, the things that are being offered... I would like to object and I would like to say that what is being offered is not really met with criticism. In essence, this could be the level of amendment of the law, not a new level of the draft law. But these amendments are also very, very controversial. Of course, we can also focus on certain cases which are proposed in this draft law and which I believe should be subject to a very fundamental review and which, above all, do not fulfil the task decided unanimously by the Saeima when the administrative territorial reform was launched, and which also included an understanding of the need to carry out a function audit - which is done by the municipality, which is being done by the state as a party. Unfortunately, this has not been done. Also in tabling this bill... No word can be read anywhere about what it would be... Except... what Mr Pouce has just said is that all municipalities will now have to do the local police. The order in cities, streets and districts is already mostly provided by the local police only; it would be difficult to call it something innovative. At the same time, the draft law does not involve any funding... co-financing, although provided for by the European Charter for Local Authorities. If such a function is entrusted to municipalities from the State as a compulsory function, funding should also be provided for its execution. Also about them as if the specified functions... If it is praised that these functions have now been clarified, I would, on the contrary, say that the functions have been made more out. For example, one of the main functions that is - this voluntary initiative... the municipality... narrowing... according to what... is possible only in scope that is appropriate... as part of the autonomous functions of the municipalities. This is not right, in my view, because in this way we exclude, for example, student scholarships that are very popular and that are implemented through a voluntary initiative and other issues. I would also like to say that the most important thing... and what should be assessed... it is in the judgement of the Constitutional Court, last, on administrative territorial reform... In the Izkule case, where the Constitutional Court defined one important issue, that is - local administration. And if from the nineties... everything has been seen, but what is being offered here is a hybrid model that is typical of Russia... somewhere, that there's... that he appoints some kind of managers... Also... I don't know... I tried to find with my colleagues... Somewhere in Africa there are offers such as those currently offered by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development - offer to the Saeima to accept, for example, these boards, which are then appointed according to democracy... Thus, they are chosen by the population and must then be approved by the municipal council, so they may not be approved by the municipal council. There is also this possibility, and that is not ultimately democratic. What the Constitutional Court stressed was that this governance structure must be... Let's call them zero-level municipalities... What is being offered here is by no means a zero-level municipality. Of course, this is a hybrid model that does not fully fit into the framework that... I was assigned... both on behalf of the President of the Republic and in the law... and so on. And, of course, this wish of the Soviets - to lay off the center... accept, therefore, the authority of the Minister of that municipality... To release the mayor... I think it's also historical... be taken out of this bill. I call for this draft law not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-07-PT13-2230-U5	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against. Please call me! Please, we will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Legislative Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government! Please, let's vote! For - 71, for - 6, for - 5. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda - draft law “On the denunciation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the Promotion and Protection of Investments”. It has been submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that it be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”. It has been submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes to hand it over to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Equity Shares and Corporate Governance”. It has been submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that it be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Members Marija Golubeva, Vita Anda Steel, Krista Baumane, Dace Rukšāne–Ščipčinska, Inese Voika and Aigars Bikše have submitted draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”. The Saeima Bureau proposes that it be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission. ‘ Marija Golubeva, Member of the European Parliament, applies to speak about’. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-07-PT13-2230-U6	Those amendments extend the scope of candidates who can apply for competition in academic positions by providing that the position of professor, associate professor and professor may also be awarded to those scientists and lecturers who are professors, associate professors or professors in the countries of the European Union, as well as to Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the United States of America, Canada, Australia and New Zealand. Also in cases where they do not have a doctorate, but have academic achievements that meet the legal requirements, so that the eligibility of candidates can be assessed on the basis of their scientific performance at international level. This would provide an opportunity for Latvian universities to benefit from the experience and knowledge of scientists who have excellent scientific, educational achievements that meet the scientific criteria laid down by law, even if they do not have a doctorate recognised in Latvia. There are several fields of science where there are currently large discrepancies in requirements between the Latvian higher education system and many world-class universities. For example, a professor of clinical medicine without an academic degree - a doctor - can be presented in Harvard, but not in Latvia. Similar situations tend to occur for some lawyers, architects and in some other areas, such as business management in science. What is the benefit of these amendments? At present, the situation of many Latvian scientists is that they work outside Latvian borders, in countries where the scientific level of universities is currently objectively higher than in many places in Latvia, but in order to present at the university, there is... Doctoral degree is not required everywhere. Often the international performance of these scientists is higher, and Latvian universities would certainly gain if they were attracted. Such amendments have also been requested for nothing by the Diaspora scientists, the European Latvian Association, and are supported by the Latvian Association of Young Scientists. For Latvian universities this presence of internationally excellent scientists is necessary as firewood fresh air. Of course, these amendments will not raise university ratings in themselves, but after the reform of university management, by attracting more funding, the presence of these scientists and their publications will raise the recognition and scientific performance of Latvian universities. We are aware that this situation could be equally topical for not all areas of science. In the Commission, we will be able to listen to both the views of the ISM and the views of experts and, if necessary, to clarify these requirements. Of course, these proposals must be debated with all the nuances involved, which is why we are looking forward to a full discussion within the Commission, including with the organisations of the Diaspora, which are long-standing for this debate. We call for this initiative to be passed on to the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-07-PT13-2230-U7	“Pret” has applied to speak to Member Edmunds Teirumnieks. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-07-PT13-2230-U8	Hello, colleagues! I would ask you not to support the further progress of this draft law and I would like to highlight the following. Firstly, funding. For a long time, the problem of Latvia has been financing higher education, therefore, the remuneration of academic staff. This is one of the lowest in the European Union. No matter how patriotic the university teachers are, they too need to maintain their families. Due to the reward, many outstanding representatives of the high-level academic family are currently teaching, and their scientific activities are carried out outside Latvia, often with a complete movement to live in another country. Moreover, the existing remuneration does not allow Latvian universities to attract or attract high-ranking professors from abroad. And we can't just do that... even competing with universities in our neighbouring countries. It should be borne in mind that, as the manufacturing industry develops and technological complexity, highly qualified academic staff chooses to work outside the university segment. Second, the pressure on the teachers. Latvia has a very high number of contact hours at the level of the profession, while in many other countries of the European Union the professor has only a few contact hours per week, the rest of the load consists of scientific research work, the management of diploma work and doctoral dissertations. In Latvia, professors work very often in parallel with several universities. Of course, scientific quality suffers from this, such as scientific publications. The Latvian profession, if you can say so, loses from groups of foreign researchers, where there are collective high-level publications, but it is difficult to assess the scientific contribution of each author. Thirdly, doctoral schools or doctoral studies. In a situation where the position of associate professor and professor, with the exception of art, for example, will allow candidates without a doctoral degree, there will be a threat to the existence of doctoral studies. Already in Latvia there is an acute problem with students in doctoral studies and those with a doctoral degree. The current number of doctoral degrees does not guarantee the generation of scientific staff. The trend is dangerous, these proposals may reduce the interest of those with master’s degrees in doctoral studies. Fourthly, the election criteria. The election system and procedure already in place does not prevent participation in open competitions and to the professional position of lecturers. Currently, the election requirements for the positions of professors and associated professors are being increased. The existing regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers for the candidates for the position of professor and associate professor provide for the conduct of promotion work for the professor, as well as the defence of at least one leading promotion work, as well as review of promotion work and so on. Without a doctoral degree, it is not possible to perform these works. With the proposed amendments to the Law on Higher Education, these requirements will also be reduced. Against this background, I would again remind you that funding in higher education is the key to attracting quality teaching staff to the higher education system of Latvia, including from the Diaspora. And failing to take the doctoral degree into account for certain academic posts - this will not contribute to progress towards excellence in higher education. I call for a 'no' vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-07-PT13-2230-U9	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Education, Culture and Science Commission the draft law tabled by Members Golubeva, Steel, Bauman, Rukšane-Šchipčinska, Voika and Bikše, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 57, for - 21, for - 1. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Administrative Penalty in the Field of Administration, Public Order and Use of the State Language” presented by Member Edvina Šnores, Raivja Dzintars, Jānis Dombrava, Jānis Iesalnieks, Aleksandrs Kiršteinas and Rihards Kola be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Will Mr. Schnore talk about it? Please, you have a name.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-07-PT13-2230-U10	Hello, dear colleagues! In Latvia today, 30 years after the occupation, a paradoxical situation has been observed that citizens can be persecuted, threatened and punished for the removal of the military equipment of the occupying army from honour pedestals. The logic should be the opposite: that there would be punishment for exhibiting and honouring the attributes of occupation, not for their removal. The aim of the draft law is to put this situation right, first of all to create a motivation for landowners to remove such monuments and to define the responsibility if it is not done. It is hard to imagine that a German bomber would be standing today on the post-postage site in Paris or London with a dowry to which German veterans would put flowers. In Latvia, however, the monument to the USSR bomber, with the entire red star, stands in a place of honor - the center of the square... Right here, in Pierīga, and the municipality provides all of this from their budget. The military technique of the USSR - tanks, guns and planes - was exhibited in visible places in the occupied territories of the USSR, so that locals, by passing by every day, do not forget what authority they are under. The times of the USSR have been in place for 30 years. The site of the Occupational Army monument is located either in scrap metal or in a museum, but in no case in the town areas of Latvia. Latvian repressive organisations have supported the draft law. I call on you fellow Members to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-07-PT13-2230-U11	“Pret” has applied to speak to Member Nikolai Cabanov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-07-PT13-2230-U12	Dear President, Dear colleagues, I think the drafters should be honest and name this document on the law on Skulte aircraft, because the only object that is currently located in Latvia and is in some way connected with the armed forces of the former USSR is plane IL-28, which stands in the village of Pierīga... It's at the airport. However, it is difficult for me to believe that the issue of these monuments in general is a major problem for Latvia. On the contrary. It seems that the draft law is counter-stately, because it attracts negative praises to our republic now, namely that the media and leaders of some countries, neighbouring countries are beginning to be irritated that, you see, in Latvia, “kill” Soviet symbolism, say, destroys monuments. Maybe it provides the basis for attacks on Latvia... political attacks, I mean. Of course, the Group of the National Alliance sometimes speaks with such a phrase - the worse, the better. Unfortunately, you do not understand that the actions your activists have taken in the city of Jēkabpils are nothing other than legal nihilism. If there are any claims against former artillery monuments, they must be carried out through the municipality, make an appropriate decision, and then act as thieves to withdraw the gun at night. The same thing you are now trying to do with the plane, but it will not work for you, gentlemen, because this object is quite thorough, well secured. There live people who know your wishes very well, also know that... Let's say a while ago, pull the table off at the postage. Since this object is protected, local people know it, and you simply fail to do so, you provoke the conflict. It's good for you to provoke the conflict and then... You think you can achieve your political goals. This is very, very dangerous in the current situation, where there is a pandemic in Latvia and we need to be politically coherent and cohesive; you are artificially implementing the actual international conflict, because it is known that most people belonging to national minorities, minorities, things related to history, are sacred things. Now history has become such a religion, it applies to both Latvians and Russians. I can remind you that the historical policy of the Soviets, even though it was very oblivious, in my opinion... various monuments, such as Rezekne, were destroyed, but the Freedom Monument was preserved. And there was such an example about the monument of the Latvian army. I can name this same sculpture of the armored machine from concrete, which was installed in 1939 in Riga, Pulka Street. This was revealed by General Balodis. And this monument, a machine of armor, was standing all the time and lived to independence when it was repaired... I ask my colleagues not to support the proposal made by the Group of the National Alliance and to vote against this dangerous and wrong proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-07-PT13-2230-U13	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Legal Commission of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Administrative Penalty on Violations in the Field of Administration, Public Order and Use of State Language” tabled by Member Schnore, Dzintara, Dombrava, Iesalnieks, Kiršteina and Kola, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 56, for - 23, for - 2. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law of the Bank of Latvia” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and Their Managers” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Security Activities” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible and the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Diplomatic and Consular Service” be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible and the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Investment Administration Companies” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Movement of Arms” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the commission responsible and the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Investors” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible and the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Credit Register” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that its commission is responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Settlement Finality in Payment and Settlement Systems of Financial Instruments” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Deposit Guarantee Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Private Pension Funds” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law of the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and Proliferation” be referred to the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption in Defence and Home Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible and the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia” be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, according to which it is the committee responsible, and to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on the Movement of Goods of Strategic Interest” be referred to the commissions – the Foreign Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible and the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Corporate Income Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Funded Pensions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) and the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Distribution of Insurance and Reinsurance” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Insurance and Reinsurance” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 1003/Lp13), it is the second draft law, passed on to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Cruanzdependence Companies” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Restoration and Resolution of Activities of Credit Institutions and Investment firms” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Financial and Capital Market Commission” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Janina Jalinska, Jānis Dūklavs, Edgars Tatars and Armands Krauze refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes to refer the draft law ‘On the Treaty amending the Treaty establishing a European Stability Mechanism between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Portuguese Republic, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic and the Republic of Finland’ to the Foreign Affairs Commission, the Slovak Republic and the Republic of Finland, to the Foreign Affairs Commission, with a view to establishing its responsibility. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes to refer the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers ‘On the Agreement amending the Agreement on the transfer and sharing of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Republic of Croatia, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, Poland, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic and the Republic of Finland’ to the Foreign Affairs Commission, establishing that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Dear colleagues, The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Members Latkovska, Čakša, Lībiņa-Egnere, Asheraden and Možvillo to declare a suspension at the first remote extraordinary meeting of 25 March following the examination of the section “Presidium Reports” by 9 a.m. on 8 April. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the motion tabled by Members Latkovska, Čakša, Lībiņa-Egnere, Asheraden and Možvillo on the interruption of the sitting by 9 a.m. on 8 April this year! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This submission is therefore supported. Thank you. Registration of Members' presence. It's over. Thank you for your work. I'm closing the sitting right now. ( Interruption)
