ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2251-U1	Dear Members and honourable Members, We shall continue to examine the agenda of the first remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 22 April 2021. The draft decision on the future direction of the 11 376 Latvian citizens’ collective application “On ban on lynx hunting” is on the agenda. The parliamentary session opened a debate on this draft decision. Members had applied for a debate. Member Edgars Tavars applied for the next debate. I beg him if he wants to, resubmit electronically. Mr. Tabar, you have a name.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2251-U2	Thank you. Dear President, Dear colleagues, I too am one of 11 376 citizens who signed this application - 'On the ban on lynx' - (I did it last year). The way forward... I am looking at this from two sides. One point of view is with the heart. I, like much of society, understand that it is one of the most beautiful and graceful animals of the forest, protected not only in Latvia, but in very many countries of the European Union and the world, because there is a trend - a population decline. On the other hand, however, I listen to experts who clearly tell me that the lynx is a predator, who chooses the stylus pups, rubles, porpoises and various other animals in his menu. I really... Colleagues, I would like to have a qualitative debate on this issue so that we get to the logic of both heart and mind and... in this case - at the golden middle road, at how and how... whether we need to ban lynx hunting in Latvia or whether we need to limit them completely. We need a debate in the Commission to discuss this issue with forest professionals, nature researchers, animal defenders and we find an objective, fair mid-way. There can be no extremes here on either front, because you understand that the pussies use these diapers in their menu. and not just... And if the deer defenders come and tell us that - no, the lynx population should be restricted, because it often happens that even in parks where these deer are specially grown... Lucy does very much damage. A balance has to be found here. I am definitely in favour of the balance, and I am in favour of keeping the lynx population growing in Latvian forests, but at the same time - at the same time! - the population of other forest animals, the natural population that is found in Latvia and with which we are proud, would not decrease. This really is a difficult issue that we cannot discuss in one parliamentary debate, either on the heart or on the basis of rational proposals. Colleagues, here you will have to find the middle road, and I am in favour of having lynx in Latvia to be more, but also other wild beasts in Latvia. I call on my fellow Members to vote in favour of passing this proposal on to the commissions so that we can find a golden midway to this issue by inviting experts to the commissions and by getting to know real facts and figures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2251-U3	Name to Member Ivar Pug.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2251-U4	Hello, colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! Since I remember myself, lynx has always been and are rare animals, both in Latvia and elsewhere in the world. I assume there are countries where this animal is not known at all. Perhaps the industry's specialists have actually calculated that the lynx population is too large here, but in that case I suggest remembering Member Alda Gobzema, in my opinion, the worst proposal - the lynx to catch and return or sell to zoos in other countries, not to shoot brutally, because something suggests that the real reason is not the regulation of the population, but the desire to shoot through a moving target. I am in favour of the continuation of this application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2251-U5	Thank you. Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2251-U6	Hello, dear colleagues! On lynx hunts - both two weeks ago at the sitting when we started looking at this item on the agenda, and at all, there has been a great deal of information in the debate on this subject, placing a mark of equality between hunting and shooting, bringing the undisputed visual love of lynxes into line with safety... And some of them, I think. I believe that the lynx should be hunted, because, as Mr Kazinovsky and Mr Tatar have already said, they are predators. These are predators that feed on small animals. Moreover - and this is not insignificant! - they are fresh eaters, so they do not eat dead animals. Yes, it is true that the lynx, as it has been fixed in the game chambers, is also grown in the game, which means that it is also the baby of the roes and that certain other animals are also in the menu. This, in turn, leads to... If we ban lynx hunting today, the population of animals that form the lynx menu will fall with years until the lynx population increases several times. What's the damage? This means the disappearance of havoc, birds living in the forest, such as rubies, tattoos, which are also threatened by foxes and which are rare now. At present, lynx hunts are controlled, and I think it should remain so. If there is a problem in listing animals, in the data, it also has to work on, but not on, emotional hunting bans... If the country is allowed to hunt a year... The time of about 80 lynx this year, with the number of lynxes adjusted accordingly each year, should also remain in this approach, because it is not already said that the entire quota will also be hunted. Can lynx defenders today guarantee that the same rabies will not spread at a time when the lynx ban and the lynx population will grow on several occasions? At the same time, the foxes do not need to be hunted to walk around the fury and carry disease. You don't have to hunt the beaver, but they don't attack people. I am strongly against the introduction of such an emotional and general ban, but I am counting on the Commission responsible to take account of all the circumstances, not just the emotions that are already taking very much advantage of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2251-U7	Name of Member Janina Kursīte-Pakulė. ( Pause) Mrs. Courses-Pakule, we don't see you, we can't hear you. Ms. Pakule! Do you have a camera on, a microphone on? Let us continue with the rest of the debate and hope that Mrs Kursītes-Pakules will be able to return. Mr Kazinovsky, you have applied for a second time in the debate. So the word Andris Kazinovskis in the debate for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2251-U8	Hello, dear colleagues! Yeah, I'll talk about this again. I have studied the issue of the substance of the most active environmental activists' organisations. First of all, it should be mentioned that the richest non-governmental organisations in Latvia are exactly environmental organisations. For example, the turnover of the Latvian Natural Fund in 2019 was 2.6 million euros. It also turns out that the members of the board also participate in the process of distributing public money. For example, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development works in the Environment Administration by specialists who are also owners or co-owners of companies, and these companies are carrying out these millions of projects. What other activities are environmental activists doing? Funding for environmental organisations has increased over recent years and their influence has also increased. It is environmental organisations that are sometimes quite closely connected with individual political groups that determine in Latvia what environmental projects will be implemented and then implement them themselves. Consider some examples. One example: Here are a number of bans - nature parks, but... There are also projects in the Gauja National Park, for example, which are funded through European and also public funds - such as the burning of forests. There the goal is as if noble - a place where birds and animals can be nested again is prepared, but by nature it is nonsense - to burn the forests. Go on. There is a very good film taken by journalist Ansis Pūpols - in the documentary Ērglis. It is interesting to follow up on how deforestation takes place in Ķemeri National Park. Two hundred hectares of forest were to be felled. This has also been done. The aim is to cut down the forest and free it from the wood and shake it. It's a real nonsense again! It's like, for the purpose of nesting birds there... and so on. But the question is a little bit different. The amount of money is about three to three and a half million euros per wood. The question is, where does the money go, what pockets fall? Nobody knows about it. It should also be mentioned that there is a huge lobby for environmental activists. They also have various types of environmental projects, propaganda tools, television programmes that blacken opponents or present the relevant questions in the positive light they need. So, here's the place for this question of lynx? I see an identical situation here, and I see that by prohibiting lynx to hunt, it will be achieved that there will be millions of projects once again and these projects will not actually serve Latvian interests, but individual workers' personal interests, and that in fact, European and Latvian public money will also be used accordingly. I hope that, as Members, we will not be naive; we will not be subject to this propaganda. I believe that there is order, and I am on order in society as well as in the forest. This arrangement for lynx hunting has been developed for several years. It has been worked by experts and several institutes, such as the Silava Institute, where the research is carried out in Ozoliņš, is unique... Hunters are only performers, but on the other hand they see the situation. And, of course, hunters have an interest in having this parity to have a balance in nature. The lions should actually be kept in the number of what experts and experts say. You can't do that, for propaganda's sake, just ban hunting. I think that this initiative should be rejected at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2251-U9	Name to Member Ilmar Duritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2251-U10	Hello, very honourable chair of the sitting! Highly respected colleagues! Members and Members! I am listening to this debate - I have listened to it last time - and I would also like to express my views and comments on what has been heard. And also for this citizens' initiative. At first, I say that it is not right, in my opinion, that Kazinovsky said that the initiative should be rejected. The initiative should not be rejected. The initiative must really be debated, and it must be taken forward. However, I would like to emphasise some aspects. In the debate in the Saeima, the President of the Green Party of Latvia, Mr Tatar, talks about the golden midway. Mr Tawar, I think you should know, as the leader of the Green Party, that nature itself is the cause of the golden midway, and nature itself is best regulated. And, believe me, both the number of lynx as predators and the number of herbivores will adjust... better adjust if a person intervenes less there. Actually, man... And humanity in its history... We have a huge number of examples that man has so “regulated” nature, that species have disappeared and that then attempts are being made to introduce something back, that endemic species are failing... This is not such a simple question. I do not believe that we should completely abandon any regulatory processes, but I agree with you that this should be done on the basis of the recommendations of scientists and natural researchers, not on the basis of the recommendations of hunters, because hunters are in conflict of interest here. Also, the recommendations of forestry experts are not being taken into account, as they also look at nature from an economic point of view. And more. I just want to say: dear colleagues, I am shocked by the proposal to catch lynx and place it in zoos. I understand we're not discussing it today, but yet... Lucis is an animal whose territory is several tens of square miles. It may be better to shoot it than to put it in a zoo in a few square metres. Maybe it's about we should take our lynx if really that population is too... Well, growing up and growing up because the balance of nature is disrupted... they could be led to countries where this population needs to be restored. I am listening to this debate, and I find it strange that hunters are also among those who demonise lynx and tell how huge predators they are and that they have no competitors in nature. Yes, the lynx is predators, but they have competitors - they are other predators. It is also a wolf that is widespread. Bears (and, at all, all carnivores) regulate the herbivorous population naturally, they catch the weakest... underdeveloped herbivores - just like wolves. I think that this is not bad overall in such natural processes. If we are talking about the impact on the economy, then let's see what damage, for example, algae... Algae... bark rodents, such as spruce... or, for example, damage caused by stylus and lagomorphs in orchards. If we compare it to how many pet lynxs are killed, then... these are completely incomparable cases, such cases are very few. That's why we're still talking about the fact that hunting is necessary so that we can study the luss... Well, it's probably yes, but it's the method of last century's centenary and millennium's. Of course, if the pussies are hunted, then the researcher can also connect to find something, but think that the species should be hunted to study it -- well, it's like... You know, there's one method of research that destroys its subject of research - it's archaeology, as we know, because the archaeological excavations are so... either, they actually destroy the subject to some degree of destruction. Talk about it today, when there are so many research methods as you can study predators, animals... To say that they should be hunted so that we can identify something, study something about their lives - that, in my opinion, simply does not pass criticism, is not in line with today's technological developments and so on. In general, I would like to say that we should be very happy that the lynx is in Latvia. Yes, they may be rarely seen, but overall this population has remained and may develop. I am calling very, very, very much for this proposal to be passed on... the initiative should be passed on to the Commission, and the Commission should really use... invite nature researchers, biologists and listen to their views, because I believe that this will be the most objective and independent opinion. Then a decision could also be made. I let the lynx continue to be hunted. However, it is very likely that the number of lynx we hunt each year is too high. That could be the case; it really has to be examined in depth. And we need to make decisions that are friendly to all - people, the environment, nature and animals. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2251-U11	We are continuing the debate. Name of Member Janina Kursīte-Pakulė.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2251-U12	Dear President, Dear colleagues, I do not understand that some Members do not want to transfer this initiative to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy for further evaluation. If, as lynx hunters say, everything is in the best order, then why resist the competent analysis? This is all the more necessary, in my opinion, in order to dispel the concerns about what was said in the State Audit Office report and to indicate that there is still no accurate information available as to exactly how many lynxs are located in Latvia. I’ll quote: “ According to the State Forest Service, in 2018, in Latvia there were 1578 lynx after the hunting season. According to the experts’ assessment, the number of lynx in Latvia was almost three times smaller (about 450 to 650), while “Special monitoring data of the Latvian State Forest Science Institute “Silava” showed almost eight times less lynx or 190.” (End of quote.) There's a big difference. When granting hunting quotas, it is important - whether there are 190 lynx or 1578 lynx in Latvia. In my opinion, it should be clarified whether any manipulation of data has been allowed when deciding on the number of animals to be hunted during the season or, more precisely, the number of animals to be hunted. Let us let the experts speak about it, listen to the researchers and other experts! Strangely, Latvia's ranking in the first and only trio of their countries... Location between countries of the European Union where lynx hunting is permitted. In Finland and Sweden, lynx threatens the population of reindeer (this has already been mentioned several times in the discussion), but what are they threatening in Latvia? The lynx has been reported to attack domestic animals eight times in 30 years. In my opinion, hunters have accidentally killed more pets than the lynx did. The word ‘flush’, if it looks at the origin of the word, means ‘flush’, ‘glowing’. Do we not destroy anything that is still glowing and shiny to us, just for sports, for gambling? In the future, we may feel sorry about it. I call for support for further progress in the collective application so that an in-depth analysis can be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2251-U13	Name to Member Edgar Tavar for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2251-U14	Colleagues! Slightly reflecting what the previous speakers have said, I would like to emphasise that environmental lobbyists do not exist as such in Latvia. There are certain interest lobbyists who are trying to encamp different technologies or to decipher different foreign equipment and so on, but those who objectively defend Latvia's natural values, our own natural values - there are no such lobbyists. At one time there was the Ministry of the Environment, which really took care of environmental protection, nature protection, biodiversity; various experts from the environmental field sat at one table, were sitting opposite the economics, discussed. Now things are getting worse and worse. I remind you... In particular Ilmars Dūritis: The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development is led by a member of your party and the first matter of this ministry is environmental protection. What we hear from the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development in recent years is that there are reforms... reforms of local governments, and so on. On environmental protection - round zero. Such issues should have been discussed in the Cabinet of Ministers in due time; it was not necessary to wait for the collective application of 11 376 Latvian citizens to appear. If you believe that to invite environmental experts to a discussion, to a discussion such as zoologists, ornithologists together with hunters and foresters and other experts should not be allowed, because they are interested in... Colleagues, what are we talking about? Then on other issues too... On LGBT issues, for example, we cannot invite people with different sexuality to a discussion. Let's not get out of here! We need to support this issue, we need to focus on the Commission, we need to call on all experts at all levels - environmental experts, zoologists and the like - to sit against them by hunters, economics, foresters, and this really needs to be discussed objectively. I am in favour of the population of lynx to grow in Latvia, but at the same time I am in favour of the number of rubble not to decrease, so that there is no reduction, so that the number of other small forest animals do not decrease, so that there is a balance. Colleagues, please support the transfer to the Commission! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2251-U15	Name to Member Normunds Gun.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2251-U16	Dear colleagues! I am sure that the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy will not take a decision to ban lynx hunting, but that legislative gaps will be put in place to improve lynx accounting, research and further stabilise the population of these royal animals, and to keep lynx as part of the forest society meaningfully. Hunters have long grown up from meat and trophy fans and banana shooters on a moving path, have become... As the debate has said, hunters have become responsible for their area managers. Yes, the management also includes the number of animals, their populations, regulating them by hunting. If someone imagines that today in the forest there may be a primary environment where the natural selection of the central path of gold is determined, then you will have to be disappointed: the presence of people has also changed so much that we can no longer hope for its primary self-regulation. If we do not engage in forest management and the regulation of the number of animals, such cases as what was observed about seven years ago - that the park of wild boar went from Shmerlis forest to “Alfu” (probably shopping) - may become everyday. Do we want that? I don't think so. We must take responsibility for the things that we have affected, including forest animals. Let us not put our head in the sand, let us not hide behind emotional attacks, but let us be responsible for the things that we have changed for hundreds of years, so also for forest animals, especially lynx! And by the end. At the moment when a man ends up hunting, civilization will also end. I call on you to support the draft decision drawn up by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2251-U17	The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2251-U18	Thank you. Colleagues! Lucis is a rare, strictly protected species in Europe that is not hunted in neighbouring countries in Lithuania and Estonia. The production of salmon is regulated by Directive 92/43/EEC on the conservation of natural habitats and of wild fauna and flora and this Directive is also binding on Latvia. This directive only allows for the hunting of the forest animals concerned on an exceptional basis, and European Union documents say nothing about lynx hunting as a recreational activity or maintenance of tradition. Given that the European Court of Justice has issued a number of preliminary rulings in nature protection matters, protecting habitats and protecting both wolves and other predators, I believe that we must support both this initiative and give serious consideration to the experience of our neighbouring countries, Lithuania and Estonia, which ban the hunting of lynx. I don't think... The Hunters' Lobby, which obviously showed itself in a transparent way, both by peeling the amendments to the Hunt Law at first reading in one of its sittings, and now by debating this initiative... This clearly shows that the hunter's side is above the nature conservation representatives... Representation in the Saeima as well as in the Saeima committees. I am very sorry that this is the case. And another thing that... I very much hope that the majority of the Saeima will support this initiative, that it will be dealt with by the competent committee and take a positive decision - that they will ban the shooting of lynx. And I hope that the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development is equally zealous... that the experts who represented and protected the interests of nature, when talking about coastal protection zones and nature parks, will be equally competent and nature equally protected in this context - with regard to the ban on lynx hunting. I very much hope that the ministry and the ministerial experts will really show interest in this issue and will provide support in ensuring that the interests of environmental representatives are also protected during the legislative process. Colleagues, I very much hope that lynx hunting will be prohibited in Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2251-U19	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2251-U20	Good afternoon, everybody! Unfortunately, every time we have to debate one of the popular initiatives that have been presented to the Saeima, we have to remind our colleagues that... Especially for all those who have now debated... However, I call for an introduction to the agenda. What is the question? This is not about authorising or prohibiting lynx hunting. The question is whether to hand over... whether to start examining this initiative and refer it to the committee responsible, or not. Colleagues, however, I call for us to have a responsible approach to our work. And if we do do so responsibly, then I call for a debate on the substance. Perhaps the chair of the sitting could also point out: there is currently a debate on the referral to the commission, not on the substance. Instead, we have heard a long and broad debate. And this vote... if this happens to be the case for what was debated, it will be the opposite of what this agenda issue in general is about. Colleagues! I call on you, whether you are in favour or against, to vote in favour of this question to all those who believe that democracy in the country of Latvia means something else, that there is at least... if not, at least assess what it has said and support its transfer to the panel. So the vote will be in favour: either to hand over or not to hand over. Will we, the leaders of the people, listen to the people's will, listen to this wish, debate it or simply reject it arrogantly, because we have come up with it? Tell me, you know, someone of us doesn't like it. Therefore, my call to you is as follows: to put it to the committee responsible today, to the vote in favour. And when the commission has assessed - then let's also decide on the substance. And I hope - with arguments, not just with emotional judgments about what to do then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2251-U21	I closed the debate. Mr. Gunna, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2251-U22	Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission. I invite you to support the draft decision prepared by the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Applications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2251-U23	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the 11 376 collective application “On the ban on lynx hunting””! Please vote mode! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Dear Members and honourable Members, Consequently, we have reviewed the agenda of the first remote emergency session of the Saeima on 22 April 2021. Only the registration of Members. It's over. So I closed the sitting. Nice evening for you!
