ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2236-U1	Dear colleagues, This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. Presidium statements by the Saeima. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has submitted a draft decision “On Compliance of the Moto of Organisation and Conduct of Practical Training and Exam Process in the Sector with the Basic Principles of Covid-19 communicable Control and Precautions in External Spaces”. Are Members against the fact that we are looking at the draft decision tabled by the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy at this sitting? There is no objection. We started to examine the draft decision submitted by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Member of the Commission Ralph Nemir. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2236-U2	Good evening, honourable leader of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, we looked at the motto training industry and instructor, as well as the operational management group. It is in the context of the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No. 360 ‘Eliminal safety measures to limit the spread of Covid-19 infection’. More precisely, by paragraphs 1, 328 3 and 328 4 of this Regulation. In brief. The third and fourth paragraphs of point 32.8 set two limits: firstly, there may be only two trainers and instructors on the moto training course (without any descriptive area); secondly, there is a real need for a break within 15 minutes of training. After hearing Mr Citskovska, a representative of the Task Force, the members of the Commission did not believe that such restrictions generally helped to limit the prevalence of Covid-19. The moto industry was also not invited to take decisions from the operational team. Consequently, the committee unanimously decided to invite the Saeima to decide on the invitation to the Cabinet of Ministers to assess compliance of these regulations with the fundamental principles of Covid-19 control of infection and on the implementation of the evaluation and decision to inform the Saeima by 22 April 2021. As I said, this decision was unanimously approved by the Commission – all colleagues agreed. I thank all the members of the Commission for their initiative. It has to be said that this initiative has come from society, and it was in the context of moto training that the instructors had turned to the Commission. In the Commission, all Members have supported such a draft decision by taking the initiative in this case. I therefore asked the Saeima, on behalf of the Commission, to support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2236-U3	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2236-U4	First of all, I should like to thank Ralf Nemiro, President of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, who has actively followed the issues of various vehicles, including motor vehicles... training in practical terms. In this case... Perhaps someone has already heard that an initiative has also been launched on the platform ManaBalss.lv – collection of signatures for one of the points, which is also mentioned in this draft decision, in particular for the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation No. 360 relevant points, 32.8(4). But... in short... This draft decision deals with three points where the Cabinet of Ministers would have to carry out... which should potentially even be deleted. One of them is the so-called remote communication between the trainee and the trainer. Photographs of how this training is carried out in practice were shown at the Commission meeting. In particular, a person arrives in his individual equipment in the moto square, so with helmet, special clothing and gloves. It's not possible to make a communication at all different from that with a helmet-based radio; it's mostly a standardised method of making that communication... or some other type of scars, mechanisms. But... Yes, given that this is a standard solution, it is necessary to review, from a legal technical point of view, whether such a special provision in this Regulation, namely the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation No. 360, it's even necessary. Go on. In this... Paragraph 3 speaks of the so-called 15-minute... the need to ventilate the motorcycle 15 minutes after completion of the training course. This raised questions (in particular motorbike... in the case of training!) Members of the Commission. Is really a motorcycle on which a person is sitting in full clothing, helmet, skin... i.e., gloves, specialized, and who is already in the outer space... So it's not in the cab... Is it really necessary for this motorcycle to perform ventilation for 15 minutes? This is an issue that should also be reviewed by experts. Isn't there anything mixed with conventional, traditional, training where the manager and... So the instructor and driver are in one of the cabs inside? Paragraph 4, which led me to the ManaBalss.lv initiative mentioned earlier... It was about the fact that, regardless of the size of the area, the practical moto training takes place... In this case, the area may not be less than two thousand square meters, it is already regulated, but in theory it may also be much larger, even a hectare large, 10 thousand square meters. In fact, there has not been a breakdown in this point, divided... For example, some square metres that should be observed in this square. It has been said that even if... So when you read this point, it is that even if the area was 10 hectares, 100 thousand square meters, it would still be possible to have only an instructor with two individual learners. So there is such a regulation. Members believe that this is a mistake. There may have been a mistake and purely technical need to correct it. As invited representatives of public administration have told us, possible solutions have already been prepared to regulate this issue. But potentially this point, too, should just be closed out because... The Commission meeting showed us visual materials on how training is going on in the normal situation... How did it happen... and how high the density was, so the distance and the interval between the learners... how it happened, for example, last summer and how it is, for example, now. As a result, many Members of the Commission felt that it might be that this point is simply redundant and should be deleted, because a density that would at the same time be compatible with road safety, not to mention much closer... permissible density, much more intense density... Exactly the restrictions on infection... which would be more dangerous... Well, in fact, it is not possible to achieve it at all. On the other hand, there are other regulations where... There are, for example, possible outdoor training without any helmets, no any special clothes, no special gloves, where in fact... and the person can be even on side effects... 10, 20 people... and exercise, also by intensive breathing. In general, therefore, this draft decision was unanimously adopted by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy... Also designed, inviting the Cabinet of Ministers... Well, in principle, that call was at first... disable... but in view of the restrictions imposed by the parliamentary roll of order, then... In fact, its legislative language is not included in the draft decision, but now... In general, it was therefore necessary to exclude paragraphs 1, 2 and 4 respectively. Thank you to all the Members of the Commission for their unanimous support. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2236-U5	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2236-U6	Thank you. There is no doubt that I am in favour of the correction of this error, but I have one question. Why has the path been chosen – to decide on the task for the Cabinet of Ministers? Such a question arises in view of the fact that decisions of this kind... such decisions of the Saeima are very often launched... To be honest, it does not take into account... does not take seriously or take into account at all. Let's say, just as it was with sports classes for young people. Should it not be easier for the coalition council to accept the task of the Cabinet of Ministers to introduce such corrections? I think it would be much more common and, sorry, too, much cheaper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2236-U7	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision submitted by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission “On Compliance of Practical Training and Exam Process Organisation and Performance Conditions in the Sector with the Basic Principles of Covid-19 Contamination and Precautions in Outdoor”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. On the agenda, under the heading ‘Review of draft laws’. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Edmunds Teirumnieks. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2236-U8	Good evening, colleagues! The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” (No. 1023/Lp13) and it was prepared for the first reading. This draft law establishes the systemic changes to the family state benefit, which have been introduced since 1992 and is currently the only universal benefit that all families with children in Latvia regularly receive. A family-country allowance is granted for every child raised in the family from his/her age of one year to his/her age of 15 years. If a child under the age of 15 continues to study at an institution of general or vocational education, the family state allowance shall continue to be paid until he reaches the age of 20 if he has not married. Currently, the amount of family state benefit per month is determined by the number of children in the family, the order number of the child born, and since 1 March 2018, more financial support has been provided for families with no less than two children, and in addition to the existing state family benefit scheme, there is a new support mechanism - a supplement. In order to organise systemically the universal benefit system for families with children and, at the same time, to provide for greater financial support for families with children, including the increase in the number of children in the family, the draft law provides that, from 1 January 2022, the amount of the family state benefit depends on the number of children under 20 in education and training and provides for a further premium... for the payment of a family state allowance... including the amount of the benefit itself. The family state allowance will be paid according to the number of children actually raised under the age of 20, also in those families where children are raised together from the previous relationship, if the family has strengthened its relationship in marriage. The new family-country benefit scheme has also been recognised by experts. And let's say, within the framework of the platform for expert cooperation on demographic affairs, it has been developed... this reform has been drawn up together... in cooperation with a number of social representatives. Under the new family state benefit scheme, there has been a significant increase in support for families with children bringing up two or more children. This reduces the risk of poverty for families with children and contributes to an increase in the birth rate. The draft law provides that the family state allowance with 1 January 2022 for a dependent child or children under 20 years of age is as follows: for one child - 25 euros per month; for two children - 100 euros per month or, respectively, 50 euros per child; for three children - 225 euros per month; for four and more children under 20 years of age - 100 euros per month for each child. The committee responsible evaluated the details of the reform and heard the views of social affairs experts from the Ministry of Welfare, the State Social Insurance Agency, the Employers' Confederation of Latvia, as well as received opinions from the three largest Latvian parents' organisations on the whole set of family state benefit reform... Latvian Association of Multichild Family Associations, Parental Organisations and Social Company Mammamuntetiem.lv, as well as parent associations and media “Mumiņas klubs”. Everyone expresses unanimous support for this reform and calls for its adoption as soon as possible, especially because only after this, central, draft law... in accordance with the decision of 22 September 2020... government... in order to compensate for the reduction in the family allowance in cases where one child has remained in the family at the age of the beneficiaries of the family allowance and two or more children of that family have already been adults, i.e. over 20 years of age. Next steps will be taken regarding the introduction of a social scholarship for young people from families who have raised or raised three or more children, studies at college or university for higher education. It is intended as part of the reform and with a far-reaching mechanism to provide a thorough support for young families at the very moment when it is most needed by the family, allowing higher education. This new, significant form of support in Latvia is planned to be introduced from the new school year, i.e. from 1 September. Basic size of the scholarship “Testgods”... It is planned to be €160 per month, or €1,600 per year. The draft law has also been supported by the social partners - the Free Trade Union of Latvia and the Employers' Confederation of Latvia - who have given an opinion appropriate to the reform. The reform of the family allowance was also discussed in detail at the Council for Demographic Affairs on 12 March this year, where unanimous support for this reform was also expressed. At the meeting of the committee responsible, a positive assessment of this reform was also confirmed by the Ombudsman and his office. So actually... The Ministry of Justice has also assessed the legal aspects of this draft law and recognised them as corresponding to amendments made by the Cabinet of Ministers... Therefore, on behalf of the Commission - in the context of all the above - I ask for urgency to be established for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2236-U9	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” as urgent! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2236-U10	Please support the draft law at first reading!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2236-U11	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” at first reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2236-U12	Submission of proposals for second reading - by 26 April this year and discussion at the second, final reading - by the Saeima at its extraordinary meeting on 6 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-15-PT13-2236-U13	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals - 26 April, and consideration at the Saeima sitting - 6 May. Dear colleagues, We have reviewed the agenda for the second remote emergency session on 15 April. I would like to inform you of the question that has just been tabled by Members. Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Viktors Valainis, Edgars Tavars and Andris Kazinovskis have submitted a question to the Minister for Economics Janis Vitenbergs “On hygienic fabric masks”. The question is referred to the Minister. Registration of Members' presence. Quorum has been established. Thank you. I'm closing the second remote emergency sitting.
