ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2177-U1	Dear colleagues, Let's start the third remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on January 7, 2021. On the agenda: consideration of draft laws. Draft Act Amending the Law on Value Added Tax (No. 889/Lp13), applicant – Cabinet of Ministers. And the alternative draft law ‘Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act’ (No. 894/Lp13) submitted by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. So, on behalf of the commission, Member Martin Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2177-U2	Hello, Madam President of the Saeima and colleagues! Welcome, sitting viewers! Happy and healthy new year for all! Today, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission of the Saeima reviewed the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” (No. 889/Lp13). The aim of the draft law is to introduce a zero rate of value added tax domestically for the supply of Covid-19 vaccines and Covid-19 in vitro diagnostic medical devices, as well as for services closely linked to such vaccines and devices, in order to ensure access to Covid-19 vaccines and Covid-19 in vitro diagnostic medical devices at a more reasonable cost. The draft law also provides for a technical clarification of the regulatory reference and also provides for a clarification of the reference to the application of a zero rate of VAT. And in view of Covid-19 pandemics (not to be heard.) ... Urgency, Directive (EU) 2020-2020 should be adopted in Latvia as soon as possible and more appropriate to Latvia's situation to ensure that the Covid-19 vaccine (not to be heard) ... The supply of diagnostic medical devices becomes cheaper. The Commission has decided to draft an alternative Commission law on the above, in order also to provide for a transitional provision for the retroactive fixing, by 25 December 2020, of a zero percentage rate of these vaccines, vaccine supplies and other abovementioned devices and services. The Commission therefore calls for this draft law to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2177-U3	Colleagues! I recall that the debate on the two draft laws is taking place in general and there is now an opportunity to apply for a debate. ( Pause) No Members have applied for the debate. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers! Please, let's vote! For - 22, for - 58, for - 5. Draft law has been rejected. The rapporteur shall continue to act on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2177-U4	And so... Thank you. Thus, as I have already mentioned, the Commission drew up an alternative draft law entitled ‘Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax’ (No. 894/Lp13), implementing this provision retroactively (not to be heard) ... from 25 December 2020 (not to be heard) ... set a zero percentage rate for supplies of vaccines and other devices and services referred to above. And the Commission also decided to recognise this draft law as urgent. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the urgency of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2177-U5	Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax (No. 894/Lp13) recognition as urgent! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2177-U6	On behalf of the Commission, I ask the Saeima to support the Commission's draft alternative legislation at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2177-U7	Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax (No. 894/Lp13) at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2177-U8	In the Commission, we decided to support the draft law in the second, final, reading without re-examination by the Commission, and therefore, on behalf of the Commission, I also ask the Saeima to support the draft law in the second, final, reading without re-examination by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2177-U9	Thank you. Please enable the procedure section. Do Members have objections to the second, final, reading of the draft law without re-examination by the commission responsible? If someone has reservations, please apply. There is no objection by Members. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax (No. 894/Lp13) in the second, final, reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision on the withdrawal of Normunds Gunna from the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2177-U10	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! First of all, congratulations to you in your recent anniversary! Secondly, I look at this section... confirmation of officials... and, looking at the third Saeima sitting today, I was absolutely convinced that we will be voting in this section for everything possible, but certainly not for the withdrawal of Normund June or for the inclusion of another Member in one of the Saeima committees. In my opinion, approval by the Minister is a much more important issue at the moment, because we live with a government where the health minister is a person who does not want to do so. And in these circumstances, this is unacceptable. I therefore call for the issue of approval of a new minister to be included in this section as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-07-PT13-2177-U11	Thank you. As soon as the government receives the documents, this issue will be included in the Saeima sitting. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal from the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption of Normunds Gunna, Member of the Saeima! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision “On the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Eva Mārtāža from the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs”. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Eva Mārtāža from the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs”! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Normunds Gunna to the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Normunds Gunna to the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Eva Mārtaja to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Eva Mārtuja to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, We have examined the agenda of the sitting. I must inform you that we are waiting for information from the government, waiting for documents from the government in connection with the appointment of the Minister for Health. As soon as we receive them, the Saeima will be convened and we will inform you by means of a text message. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. But we still have questions from Members. Members Dombrovskis, Gobzems, Valainis, Tavars and Stepanenko asked Members about the hygiene masks as a mandatory anti-virus event in schools, which we give to the Prime Minister. Members Švecova, Gobzems, Valainis, Tavars and Stepanenko submitted a question to Members about the acquisition of vaccine against COVERD-19 and the participation of vaccine producer representatives in the State Council of Immunisation, which is given to the Prime Minister. Consequently, I closed the third remote emergency sitting on 7 January this year. And we're waiting for information from the government.
