ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-04-PT13-2240-U1	Good afternoon, honourable Members, everyone who follows the Saeima sitting! On May 4, 2021, the Saeima opened its formal sitting dedicated to the 31st anniversary of the restoration of independence of the Republic of Latvia. The official sitting is held in the Saeima House, but Saeima Members are located in various Saeima buildings. That is why I would like to start by congratulating everyone. Members of the Saeima Presidium, Speakers of parliamentary groups, Prime Minister and President of the Declaration Club, Ms Velta Čebotarenko, are currently present at the Saeima’s meeting room. Hello! Hello, the 'Development/Par!' group. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. ( On the screen, Development/Par!) .) The New Unity of Fraction! ( On the screen, the New Unity Group.) The new conservative group! ( On the screen, the New Conservative Group.) Fraction KPV LV! ( On the screen – Group of KPV LV.) National associations “All for Latvia!” –‘Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK’ group! ( On the screen – National associations “All for Latvia!” –‘Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK’ group.) The Group of the Social Democratic Party SAVES! ( On the screen - AGE.) The Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! ( On the screen - Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union.) Members who are not part of the political groups! ( On the screen, non-attached Members.)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-04-PT13-2240-U2	Name of the holiday address to Ināra Mūrniece, Speaker of the Saeima!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-04-PT13-2240-U3	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister! Honourable Members! Ministers! Excellency! Dear people! On May 4, we celebrate holidays that are not similar. It is the day when after decades the dream of several generations of Latvia was fulfilled – to regain its independent state. This is the day when people took decisive events to the state in a very personal way. Every individual's belief, faith and pride combined and the ability to change reality – at one moment the occupation flood no longer had power over people. Freedom was boiling in the air! The power of the nation is so great when people feel that they belong to something larger when everyone is making the same goal. Politician, lawyer, diplomat and writer Miķelis Valters once wrote that with the announcement of the Republic of Latvia in 1918 in Latvian life, it was the superpersonal, which is the state. That your country is a high stage in the development of the nation. Only in their own country is the nation formed up. On May 4, 1990, Latvians were able to return to their country. As a result, the people rose to a new quality. In these years, we have grown and changed our consciousness in a way that can only be done by free people. Now lives in the second century of Latvia. Highly respected Mrs. Velt Chebotarenko! Dear Members of the Supreme Council! On 4 May 1990 138 members of the Supreme Council were encouraged, supported, inspired by the people and voted in favour of the restoration of independence of the Republic of Latvia. Thank you for your courage and thank you for your vote. The vote and the documents adopted on 4 May changed the reality. They made us free, determined the way forward for our nation and country – return to Europe, Western cultural and geopolitical space, democracy. The reality of free people in a free country. This process ended on 21 August 1991, when the Supreme Council adopted the constitutional law “On the State Status of the Republic of Latvia”. It was only then that we could de facto put an end to the half-century Soviet occupation and fully continue the once-disrupted process of Latvia's independence. We're going to celebrate that this year for thirty years. These and some other historical decisions were made in a thrilling time, during the Third Awake! At that time, Latvia was quite different from the one in which we live today. The atmosphere was uplifted, but it was also full of real threats. During the Soviet occupation, the part of the population illegally flooded Latvia did not wish to restore the state of Latvia. Its representatives in the Supreme Council were hostile opponents of independence, and their strong back was the army of occupation and the arsenal of power in all areas. Let us remember that in 1989 the number of Latvians in their country was only 52 percent. In order to vote “in favour of” restoration of Latvia’s independence and start managing change processes in the recovered country, there was a need for confidence and courage. And a firm agreement on a common idea and a bigger goal. Many still remember the motif of Awake! But if we look at it, we realize that it was our willingness to make sacrifices, it was our loyalty to the ideals. It was evidence of the people’s self - respect, their faith, and their own strength. We longed for freedom. After such freedom, it is not possible for a Latvian without his own country – without Latvia – at all. Today it is a self-evident thing: in our country's life we are leaders, strengthen the sovereign power of the people, speak Latvian, represent ourselves in the world with our knowledge and talents. But freedom is like a fire that must never be allowed to disappear. All of this must be cared for tirelessly! In today's Europe and also in Latvia, people are given a lot of freedoms. It seems that all the borders have fallen. However, freedom, one of the fundamental values of democracy, cannot exist without shared responsibility, without a distinction between the rights of a person and the need to protect "the rights of other people,... the security and well-being of society as a whole". It is also recorded in our Constitution. For more than a year now, we have been experiencing a clash between the perception and manifestations of freedom that we have used to in the last three decades and the restrictions imposed by the Covid-19 pandemic. The reality in which we live has, of course, changed. However, neither our personal nor our sovereign freedom has been lost. Only conventional lifestyle patterns are affected. Uncommonly, we can meet each other in live contact, but paradoxically, we have to think more about peers and society as a whole in order to limit the spread of the virus. It is important to be aware that the foundations and values of our country are not violated or violated. We need to protect them, and we need to protect them. Ladies and gentlemen! Democracy is able to withstand various attacks, but we must take great care of what is known as the immunity of democracy. We are currently seeing particularly extensive cases of deception, both at home and internationally. There are abuses of human perception, understanding and attitude. The Covid-19 pandemic was followed by disinformation flow, or infodemic. It uses public confusion, sows anxiety and fear, and preachs outrageous confusion. However, virtual reality is virtual. It is most capable of being influenced by technology. The true reality is made up of living people. Unfortunately, at present, our opportunities to meet our eyes are limited, much less than in the past we can feel the exchange of living energy and emotions, natural reactions, and the effect of presence. All possible methods should therefore be strengthened to distinguish between true information and manipulation. For us, the geopolitical goal of unfriendly infodemic chefs is broader and deeper: to destabilise the work of Western institutions, to destabilize Western ideological and political courses, to create chaos in which no one can trust or believe anything. Things have to be called in the right words. Large-scale misleading operations are being carried out with a targeted and increasing intensity. One such operation we experienced recently, when a smuggled with the members of the Saeima, who claimed to be the head of the regional headquarters of Alexey Navalya. I would like to remind you of the wave of disinformation that took over the Czech Republic and its social media when it declared Russia's secret service guilty of the explosions in the ammunition warehouse in 2014 and expelled Russian diplomats from the country. At the same time, Ukraine is facing a very strong military threat from Russia, and it seems that only a strong warning from many of the European Union and NATO Member States has so far allowed some reduction of tension. At this time, it is important that military cooperation between the Baltic States – Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania – is more active than ever. This allows us to feel united. The continued support of the United States is important for the security and defence of the Baltic States. Transatlantic links are indispensable and essential for European and global security. Honorable residents of Latvia! The most important thing at the moment is to safeguard public health and human life. Efforts to stop this pandemic are similar in most parts of the world. Sources say that the first vaccination was carried out against smallpox in various places in Latvia. In 1785, the pastor of the Rujien congregation, Gustav von Bergmanis, grafted against smallpox by some 12,000 people around Rujien. In 1957, a mass vaccination against polio, or so-called child stroke, began in Latvia. Tuberculosis vaccine also stopped the harvest of death in many families of Latvia. It is regrettable that today vaccination is still hindered by misconceptions about the composition of the vaccine and its effects. The lies must face the facts! The results achieved in the fight against the pandemic are positive if we look within the European Union. The European Union was united in the purchase and distribution of vaccines. Europe is very responsible for all alarms about the quality of vaccines and possible side effects. The European Union has taken major decisions to support people, businesses and Member States with a view to maintaining entrepreneurship and jobs. The practical burden everywhere in the world is carried out by medical staff on their shoulders. Latvian doctors have demonstrated amazing professionalism, self-pity, and wisdom all this time. The most heartwarming thank you for everything you are doing for more than a year now! Thank you for your skill, sacrifice, patience, endurance! Thank you for your professionalism. We admire you. Dear colleagues, The Saeima and the Latvian government have taken the necessary decisions since the beginning of the pandemic. Decisions on restrictions were made with the aim of ensuring that every citizen of Latvia received adequate health care under pandemic conditions in order to protect the health of the entire public. However, the challenge posed by the pandemic to governments is something new that has never been experienced before. Hence, decisions are sometimes successful, but in other cases, the situation does not prove to be the best. We are trying to find the most effective and societal solutions possible. And we fix them if necessary. If we value life outside social networks, we see that Latvian society is governed by common sense. Most people are trying to do the best they can to fight the spread of the virus. Perhaps someone has lacked patience in this long winter, maybe someone has wanted to think more often about his personal interests, but on the occasion of the holiday I want to say great and warm thanks to every citizen of Latvia for their endurance, for their responsibility. Honorable residents of Latvia! The travel and dating of Latvia makes many of the challenges of this time easier for us. We discover a lot of beauty and value in our own land and support our active and ingenious people who have not lost their hands but who continue to be active in rural and small towns. For those who are in a difficult situation as a result of a pandemic, the State provides assistance through various types of support mechanisms, seeking to cover as wide a range as possible. But what are future trends? To what should we be prepared to focus? One of the features of our nation is deep love for nature and a close connection to it. We have been created in Latvia to live in a relatively clean, green and healthy environment. We often stand up against a businessman’s desire to set up a pig farm or set up a small factory because we fear that it will harm the environment. Unfortunately, the reality is that climate change and the degradation of the natural environment are an existential threat to the whole planet, and Latvia is not free from this reality. The European Union has set up a green course to become the first climate-neutral part of the world. Latvia, by acting wisely, has the opportunity to integrate into the new farming era with good success. A modern, resource-efficient and innovation-based economy needs to be built! Such an economy will allow us to maintain our natural wealth and implement a fairer social policy as well. Dear people! Nature is not the only treasure we need to protect and protect. Our special wealth is our identity, which is recorded in a concise form in the Basic Law of the State of Latvia – the Constitution, and which consists of Latvian and Liv traditions, Latvian lifestyle, Latvian language, universal human and Christian values. It is our human and national identity. The state language, the Latvian language, expresses the essence of our nation and is our common language of communication. The national state ensures language immortality, helping to consolidate it as the world's cultural wealth. Just as the fire of freedom must always be kept alive, care must always be taken to protect, maintain and develop your language. The future of Latvian is formed here and now. Every day we need to be aware of the threat that language can face from global challenges, and we need to think about how to strengthen our language in every area of life, how to secure its position and transfer it to our children. Dear parents and teachers! Encourage children, encourage students to talk in Latvian on a daily basis! Show the richness, grooming and sophistication of Latvian language! The Latvian language embodies our self-esteem and succession. Dear fellow citizens! Our family is and remains our greatest wealth. For each individual and for every society. The meaning and importance of the family do not change. Mother and father give an opportunity to enter the world and to lift the bag for further progress. In the family, a person is showing fulfillment for his future. A year of pandemic has been a difficult year for families. Remote working and online training have tested the resilience of both children and adults. Our world of children, teenagers and young people has stagnated by waiting. A period of growth where friendships and first love are formed, wings are immersed into the flight of the future, and life goals are set, now facing difficult circumstances. We highly appreciate the Latvian educators' skills to move towards the digital environment in the short term and to continue teaching remotely, providing students with the necessary emotional support. This performance must be called the right name, and that is heroism. It is a good thing that the State has provided specific financial support to cover the needs of both children and the older generation. New support for families with children has already marked the next year, when the family state allowance for each child will increase substantially. Children are not only our own continuation and joy, children are life and future of Latvia. Patriots of Latvia of all nationalities! 31 years have passed since the declaration was adopted on 4 May. The restored Latvia is a reflection of all of us. We have also set our spiritual horizons in modern Latvia. How far do they go, and how wide are they? Have we learned to align the person more effectively with the state? Every single one of us, untied, unsupported, weak. When we are alone with our needs, our voices are easily caught by populists because their promises are so simple and seemingly generous. Our true strength is born in association with other people, with Latvian, with common goal, with ideal, with our common dream. That is what makes us stronger and helps us change reality, make it better for ourselves and people alongside us. Today, on a holiday day, we can assess how far Latvia has gone since May 4, 1990. We have taken this path individually and together. However complex the experience has been, the achievements, however, give new wings and faith to the future of Latvia's country. Congratulations to each other and our dear Latvia on the anniversary of restoration of independence! The life of the sun for Latvia! God bless Latvia! ( The national anthem of Latvia is being played.)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-04-PT13-2240-U4	Thank you all. Thus, I declare the sitting of the Saeima dedicated to the 31st anniversary of the restoration of independence of the Republic of Latvia closed! May a beautiful holiday be for everyone! Thank you. Video transmission of the sitting
