ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U1	Dear colleagues, On 15 November 2021, we shall continue the remote emergency sitting of the Saeima following the announced break. We see the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”. We are going on with proposal 23. Name to Member Rihard Kozlovski. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U2	Dear President, Dear colleagues, We shall continue to see the draft law in question. 23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. – the proposal of Members Švekova and Stepanenko. The nature of this is to rule out Article 5.1 in a new version. This means that Members are asking to actually freeze Members' remuneration. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U3	Members have not applied for a vote in the debate, but have asked for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour 23. - the motion of Members Svekova and Stepanenko! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U4	24. - also the proposal from Members Švekova and Stepanenko. It provides for the limitation of the remuneration of Members who carry out additional duties as heads of commissions or sub-committees. The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U5	Members have not applied for a vote in the debate, but have asked for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 24. - the motion of Members Svekova and Stepanenko! Please, let's vote! No, 17, no, 48, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U6	25. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. It also provides for the exclusion of Article 5.1 of the draft law. In fact, it is similar, identical to the 23rd proposal, on which we voted and did not support. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U7	This proposal cannot be put to the vote. Members have not applied in the debate. The Members therefore agree with the Commission's decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U8	26. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal. Identical to the previous proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U9	And neither can it be put to the vote. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U10	27. - The Cabinet's proposal. Means that... On the basis of the opinion of the Legal Bureau on the exclusion of representation expenses from the monthly salary... The Legal Bureau has indicated that it does not comply with the legal system, therefore the Cabinet of Ministers has prepared this proposal. This was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U11	Members have asked for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 27. - A proposal from the Cabinet! Please, let's vote! For - 47, for - 17, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U12	28. - the proposal by Members Svekova and Stepanenko. The new version of Article 6 governing the increase in the remuneration of the elected officials of the Saeima shall be excluded. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U13	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U14	Thank you. Colleagues! I believe that the allocation of additional funding should be limited to qualitative and growth indicators in the country as a whole. Only if there is economic development, the economic crisis has been overcome, quality of life, quality of life and income levels in households have improved - only then can we decide and also increase wages, including those in the Saeima. Therefore, I believe that it is not necessary to support the proposed reform and increase in remuneration and to return to this issue only if Latvia's competitiveness and Latvia's performance at international level improve with regard to improving the quality of life of its citizens. Therefore, a proposal was also made to exclude the proposed increase in remuneration from the draft law. Colleagues, I draw attention to the fact that during the meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, the State Audit Office and the State Audit Office also took part in the debate on the fact that the draft law in fact, with substantial additional funding grants, did not respond to the challenges and problems identified by the State Audit Office in several of their opinions. There is still an imbalance in the allocation of funding between ministerial officials, and it is still unclear under which criteria one coefficient will be replaced by another and the premium will vary depending on the corresponding restaurant. All this shows that the proposed draft law is in fact not aimed at ensuring a competitive wage for the public administration, but behind it there are other reasons, and most likely these other reasons are the motivation of potential voters to vote for political elite parties in power. Therefore, I do not support this draft law and the increase in these proposed wages, and I believe that the future progress of the draft law is not justified and is not in the public interest. Please support my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U15	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U16	Good morning, colleagues! Very respectful head of the Saeima sitting! Other colleagues, too! On this proposal... This is, to a certain extent, the same as the proposal put forward by the Group of the Greens/ Farmers' Union. Colleagues, I will try to explain to you today why the Group of the Greens/ Farmers' Union believes that this issue is currently a matter for the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commissions... No vote shall be taken during the examination of the budget. As we mentioned yesterday on other proposals, this also means, in essence, an increase in remuneration from 2023, as has already been mentioned in this proposal, to ministers, ministers of special tasks, member of the Prime Minister, Prime Minister, the various appointed officials of the Saeima. In my opinion, it is clear in this proposal that they are combined, very, let us say, important officials, such as the members of the Council of the State Audit Office, the Ombudsman, the Chief Executive of KNAB, the NEPLP and others, the Head of the Central Electoral Commission, the Chairman of the Higher Education Council and so on. There is a whole whole bunch of posts here, which I think would be worth looking at and also supporting, but the logic of what it is is. I already mentioned yesterday, for example, these dramatic differences. Can anyone explain why this range is from an increase of nine percent to an increase of 53 percent, which is in no way logical. It only shows that these proposals are prepared in a certain hurry, put in the budget, and in a way let us be honest, here is an attempt to fool society. As our colleague, Mr Feldman, tried yesterday to tell us that this is only for the next Saeima, this is only from 2023, I cannot agree with it. That's an attempt. This is, however, a multi-annual budget which is being approved. All this is already included in the multi-annual budget, which will have to be taken into account by the next Saeima. The justification for this funding is not discussed in the normal debate - in three readings - but is included in the budget, in the draft laws accompanying the budget, and in my opinion, the chapter relating to officials, precisely because of their inconsistency, because it still gives rise to a huge range of salary increases - from nine per cent to 53 per cent - which gives rise to a lot of uncertainty, a lot of questions. That is why we from our group are undoubtedly concerned with the issue of other categories of posts that are mentioned in this law, namely the highest officials of the state, including ourselves, ministers, President... This draft law should be excluded. Thank you, colleagues. I call for support for this proposal, as well as for the next Group of the Greens/Agricultural Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U17	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U18	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Dear colleagues, As colleagues have already mentioned, there are at least two parts here. The first subparagraph shall apply to civil servants. That's not a question... The second part is, of course, about politicians and senior officials of the state. If we start with the officials, the issue is not so clear here, too. On the one hand, the argument of the State Chancellery that it is difficult for public administration - at least in some categories - to compete with the private sector is understandable. It should be noted here that according to the information provided by the State Audit Office, this is about relatively high level of state officials. Those who work... with average wages and less than average wages, there is no such large difference from what is paid in the private sector. So here's the State Audit Office, I'm sorry... The State Chancellery wants, if not equal, to receive (as at least is the result of an annotation) at least 80 percent of what is paid in the private sector. But, colleagues, there is another aspect of this today. If the State Chancellery invites you to look so much at the remuneration in the private sector, you should also look at how things are happening, how work is organised in the private sector. And in the private sector... Imagine that a company's high-level manager, or even a middle-level manager, has suffered serious losses after the company's serious exit from the market, without doubt... Imagine a situation where this middle-level or high-level manager comes to the owner and asks for a wage supplement... because, here's his reward, he thinks he's not competitive and should lift up... and it will increase his productivity. Under private sector rules, such a manager - at medium or high level - would be laid off immediately. Perhaps he would have been made redundant (it is very possible) even in the past - for the fact that his leadership had been so far off the ground. Well, colleagues, let's look at what has happened in our country... what has happened in recent years. Will anyone dare to call this a success story? And we have the situation that the State Chancellery is coming and saying that we must raise the remuneration - a substantial increase in the remuneration - to the heads of public administration. Since we are still employers, representatives of the people, the question that we have to ask about is what? What success have we had in recent years to pay high-level officials for? Maybe it's... Of course, I assume that this may not be fair for officials in the sense that officials do not fully take decisions in our country, and there is quite a lot to say about their political leadership. It is very likely that this is, to a large extent, the fault of political leadership. But, you see, the employer, the people, they don't make such a big difference between those who are responsible here. In this situation come and ask for an increase in pay, to put it mildly, there is no time and no place. President-in-Office of the House, can you, please, unite the times of the debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U19	The times of your debate are united. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U20	Thank you. And then the other part of all that I have spoken about, both by my colleagues and by me, is what it all has to do with the top officials and with politicians, if the aim of this draft law is to ensure competitiveness with the private sector. I call on colleagues in the coalition to read at least an annotation, what the purpose of this law is. What does it have to do with the Members, what does it have with the Ministers, what is it with the Parliamentary Secretaries? As we talked about yesterday, we somehow do not see a lack of volunteers or a lack of people who want to become Members, want to become ministers, parliamentary secretaries and so on. Where is the question of what competitiveness compared to the remuneration of the private sector? Forgive us... Let us ask ourselves whether, in fact, each of our government's ministers when this government ceases to exist - will he or she really be able to find a job with the same pay - with the same pay as the government - in the private sector? Can you really do that? And then the last example, colleagues, of the parliamentary secretaries, who are offered to increase their pay, so that it is almost as big as the ministers. What work does the parliamentary secretaries do here in this Saeima at all? Their work is to represent themselves in the parliament of their ministries. We have a budget debate today. Where are these parliamentary secretaries? With perhaps one exception - the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture... Yesterday. They don't, they don't do their job. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U21	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U22	Dear colleagues, This is an issue that Mr Dombrovskis raised about what Parliamentary Secretaries are currently dealing with. The budget, however, is not a question where, in my view, the fundamental sphere should be played by the parliamentary secretaries. I mentioned in my speech yesterday about the'successful' cooperation of these eight people in the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax), where, if someone on the edge tried to watch and understand how this process was going, it would hardly be wiser than what it was before he started to watch the budgetary process initially, trying to understand why the government is either supporting a proposal or rejecting it. What is most interesting - even if we are talking about our proposals, even those tabled by the coalition, the arguments why they are supported are practically lacking. And the most interesting thing is that if you follow that chain further in the government, at least in the public part, there is no explanation of substance. If we follow the process of budget adoption in general (as explained by the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry - about the inexplicable process) how the budget has been managed, then in this sitting I see 85 participants, and I will not be wrong to say that no minister is present here in this sitting, not even formally connected to this remote mode. In my opinion, this is one of the few budgets where government members ignore the budget debate, while this budget debate also ignores, let us say, 97 percent of the members of the Saeima - those who come from the coalition, no one defends this budget, including proposals. That, I think, in some way... I invite my colleagues to consider the message we send to society and how we build confidence in the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U23	I closed the debate. Mr. Kozlovsky, will you say something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U24	On behalf of the Commission, I would just remind you that the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U25	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 28. - the motion of Members Svekova and Stepanenko! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U26	29. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. Same for the previous one. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U27	Members have not applied for a debate, nor have they requested a vote. So Members agree. ( Pause) Please ask for the vote in due time. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 29. - the proposal put forward by the Group of the Greens/Family Union! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U28	30. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal. Also actually identical to the previous one. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U29	Members have not applied for a debate, but have requested a vote. Please call me! We will vote for 30. - Member Nemir's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U30	31. - The Cabinet's proposal. In fact, the reasoning is similar to that of the 27th proposal. After the opinion of the Legal Bureau, the representation expenses of the Prime Minister shall also be determined from the monthly salary set for the official. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U31	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U32	Colleagues! I think that this proposal, too, tabled by the government, is absolutely out of place. It's like a kind of... The Prime Minister's wage increase is 42 percent... wage increase is one of the largest wage increases in general in public administration. There are only a few - one-to-one-to-hand officials - who have a higher wage increase, but from public figures it is... This is clearly the highest wage growth for elected officials. At such an increase in salary, think about a further 20 per cent premium for representation (on the background when it is not possible to ensure the necessary increase in the salary that the Saeima itself had promised), in my opinion - this is not the right moment and is not the right place. The increase, which is to be measured in thousands of euros, to put on top of another 20 per cent of the salary, which will be a monthly figure for representation, which is also a thousand number, in my opinion - it is not the right place and it is not the right time. I call on you not to support such a government proposal because, by its very nature, it brings about some kind of shouting. I could call it a shout. Just like Mr. Girgen, yesterday's debate on the fact that Mr. Citskovsky, the Head of the State Chancellery, on which... So the highest official... will be on paper one salary, but will actually receive completely different income. And here we say that the Prime Minister will have a salary of almost seven thousand euros and then a bononne, plus, in fact, another 20 percent per month. This can already be counted as an additional wage supplement. I think that is not really right. Its appetite is too large, and it would be advisable to wipe out this appetite a little bit. With this 20 per cent supplement for representation... As I said, this is not the right time or the right place to put something in the state budget - at a time when we have not taken care that medical workers can work to reduce inequalities in the pay system in pre-school education and general education. At a time when our seniors will have a higher increase than their income, say that for representation - lunch, clothes, glasses, for someone else - we give the Prime Minister a month, at his own discretion, a number of thousands of measurements, in my opinion, is not the right place and not the right time. Colleagues, I am calling for this proposal to be rejected and for this kind of shouting that... in essence continues the situation that has been up to now and only shows that this uniform remuneration law is in some ways hasty... a brother who is presented in this budget package with the idea of quickly ejecting it through. But will it be sustainable? I think that, no, it will not be sustainable. The next Saeima will come, and it will need to be amended again, to change. And that's a huge couch we're doing... against all other sectors - if we are talking about what is happening to the highest officials themselves. This is another proof of this. Thank you, and I call for this proposal to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U33	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U34	Colleagues! It is best to present or represent (it is not important whether it is a person, it is an organization, it is a president, it is a Prime Minister, it is ministers) rather than their visual image and its quality - the embroidery, beauty and price of the worn suit - but the works that these people have done or do, or will continue to do for the people of Latvia. If we look at... Will we pass through each of the ministries and ministers and ask the question of what such a great thing has been done by, for example, the Minister of Education and Science, that she needs additional funding for representation expenses? Was Science Solved? Was there a sufficient increase in salaries for educators? Are our first-class students competitive and all digital needs for our students are met? I don't think so. But a "success" can be called the purchase of air quality measurement systems close to three million, if not more. This is a good “achievement” and best represents the priorities of the Ministry of Education and Science. And now the majority of the Members of the Saeima Coalition will support the Ministry of Education and Science by providing additional representation expenses from the taxpayer's pocket. Let's see the Ministry of Welfare. Have we reduced the level of poverty? Have people in the countryside, in the regions become richer and better lived? Are they improving access to medicine? No, it doesn't improve. They lacked high-quality access to medical services, as well as lacked access to medical services. But we're going to increase now... additional representation expenses for both the Minister for Welfare and the Minister for Health. Of course, they should look good at representing Latvia at the level of the European Union, and it is beautiful to report on the results achieved, but there is little to say why Latvia is still at the bottom in several positions – the front or the last place. In terms of the level of poverty, however, we are in the first place. Between the rich and the poor... We are also first-ranking in the cracks. What are these additional expenses allocated to ministers for representation expenses? They are not justified. A measure with an increase in remuneration looks more like a party, where in fact most of the society are and live in ignorance, lives and does not understand what will happen with the restrictions that will be placed on business, with the availability of a workforce that will be healthy. Prices are rising. Prices for electricity, gas, reducing fuel are rising and therefore prices for both food and everything else are rising. This Saeima does not find any funds to stop price rises to provide people with better quality living conditions, but this Saeima finds money to raise remuneration for officials. It is a very derogatory and unfair approach to the redistribution of total taxpayers' money. Yes, we continue to borrow and continue to distribute money that we have not earned ourselves. Please do not support this proposal and vote 'no'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U35	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, This time I would like to talk about amounts and interest; I would like to talk about the substance of the matter. Did anyone ever think about what we represent or present? If, let us say, Mr Kariņš or another high-ranking official need to receive guests, he does not cover the table by paying out of his purse; if he needs to give the souvenirs to a foreign delegation, he does not pay for it. So, what do these funds mean for so-called representation? Draw a human image? Then perhaps you should use theatre techniques and also use state details, take, say, suit, wig, if necessary, and so on, and so on. There is no point in all this purpose and spending money... for such needs, as it is, or is, the case for public funds, that is to say, the taxpayers' funds. In general, therefore, representation expenses for high-ranking officials are unnecessary and unnecessary... Patients should be Speaking of the law itself. You forgive me - from 2009, when this law appeared, these are 34 amendments to this law. This is absurd, because from the original idea of saving on public administration - I underlined! - the rise in the salaries of public administration officials in the context of the economic crisis... of what is this law turning into? This is not about a single system, nor about public administration, nor about the public sector. Here is a mixture of rasol of everything except the very meaning for which this law is meant - to increase the efficiency of public administration at all levels, from the highest level to ordinary officials. This objective was not addressed in previous amendments and amendments or - in particular! - These amendments. Therefore, I think it would be best to remove this draft law from the budget package... What would be the task of the same President of Latvia... and go back to that system... By the way, the State Chancellery has been working on it for a long time, but only the dry balance is very close to zero. I call for this proposal not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U37	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U38	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Dear colleagues, I am trying once again to draw your attention to how surreal what is happening at the moment. General government and 13. Saeima trust, any other ratings are... Otherwise, it is very difficult to describe it as a ‘free fall’. We have a situation where there is a shortage of staff in hospitals. The Ministry of Health invites volunteers to apply to work in hospitals to help. And all this is in a situation where billions are spent on them, but billions of money is spent on them to recruit nurses and doctors... Something was hard to find. We are in the world's first place - but from the wrong end - on many issues: both the purchase of vaccines, the vaccination of the population, and the first home sitting (already in which wave) and so on... And, of course, about how... debt, an increase in public debt. In all this situation, the government and the ruling coalition offer us not only a significant increase in the salaries of the state's senior officials, but also ministers to present 20 per cent of representation expenses. - What? You think seriously that all its problems were because ministers did not have enough money to represent themselves? Is that the root of all the problems? If only that resources were available, ministers could finally, so to speak, present themselves properly and communicate and everything would be fine? What's next? Perhaps put them in 20 per cent of the communication costs or add 20 per cent of the education expenses so that ministers can also educate themselves, raise their qualifications, say it. Well, what else will that be... Colleagues! Either there's something neat in here -- neat in here! - the eclipse of the mind, or some mega belief in its political impunity, that less than a year before the elections, and you think that the people will forget all this. I'm even interested in where such a big mega belief comes from in its political impunity. What do you know, what do we and the people do not know, what will help you to turn into the next elections with all those grandoes, raising officials' salaries, representation expenses and other success stories? However, I suspect, colleagues, that this is an eclipse of the mind. But think again about whether you really want this bill in this budget package... go ahead. I call on you to take it out of the budget package and move it in the normal way - in three readings. Count to 10 to 100 and think carefully whether this is the right time or whether it is really right to take such initiatives today. Think about it! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U39	Name of Member Evia Papulei. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U40	Madam President, Colleagues and colleagues! Perhaps if we look at our country's places, even in UNESCO data, we can't be proud of being the first in terms of joy, the first in terms of prosperity, the first in terms of poverty prevention. No, no. All these signs show that the welfare state is not quite there at the moment. If we look at the salaries of teachers and doctors, they are not competitive either. At this point... Many of my colleagues are talking about whether the parliamentary secretaries are present. The Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science is here. And I asked yesterday: how much pay for the minimum rate (regardless of what the pay model will be) is planned by the Ministry in 2023, in fact also in September 2022? Will it be 20 percent... representation expenses from the Prime Minister and the ministerial salary? If - yes, we can assume that teachers' salaries will increase quite substantially. I really expect either a reasonable decision... and coalition Members themselves vote against such proposals, knowing the priority of education in your coalition documents, and change this available funding by increasing salaries for teachers. I repeat the question to the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science who is taking part in this sitting: how much pay the Ministry of Education and Science plans in 2023, and will it reach 20 per cent of the Prime Minister's and Ministers' salary allowances... 20 per cent of representation expenses? Representation expenses. I am not talking about the monthly salary of the Prime Minister and Ministers. I expect the answer. If there is no answer and the medium-term budget does not provide for an increase in teachers' salaries, please ask the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science to answer this question... and only then press the button in the vote for 20 per cent of the representation expenses of the Prime Minister and Ministers, the amount of which is probably below the present level... teachers' remuneration at the minimum rate. That is your true attitude towards the education sector. I'm waiting for the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U41	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U42	Good afternoon, everybody! So this proposal is about increasing representation expenses for the Prime Minister and Ministers. Many of my fellow Members are outrageous about this. In my opinion, you do not understand why this proposal has been put in place. I think that the representatives of this government, including the Prime Minister, understand that they are not able to do anything meaningful, so we need more representation expenses to be able to go to the same doctors, tell them. Perhaps, too, if you fail to tell me - to use these representation expenses simply, let's say to get drunk and forget what they really have to do. I think we are all interested in a powerful government, but we need to be aware that you can feed the hamsters as much as you want, you won't feed the lions from them, there will simply be more stools from it. That is what we are now getting from this government as a result. I call for this pointless proposal to be rejected. It's pointless and immoral. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U43	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so? The debate has been closed, Mr Tatar, I am sorry.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U44	On behalf of the Commission, I can only say that the nature and reasoning of this proposal is similar to that of the 27th proposal. Until now, representation expenses have been established in the annual budget law, and according to the Legal Bureau that this is not in line with the legal system... This proposal was prepared in the Cabinet of Ministers. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U45	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 31. - A proposal from the Cabinet! Please, let's vote! It's not about 52, it's 30, it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U46	32. - a proposal from Members Pucenas, Papules, Girgens and Dombrovskis. Provision is made for the exclusion of point 9 of the draft law. The essence of this proposal is, in fact, to freeze the remuneration of judges at the present level. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U47	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U48	33. - the proposal by Members Svekova and Stepanenko. In fact, it's identical to the previous one. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U49	So there is no vote, but there is a debate. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U50	Good morning, honourable Members of the Saeima! I tried to join in to speak on behalf of the Group on the previous proposal, but without getting it in time, I believe that the same can be said... according to proposal 33. We want to clarify our attitude on this, as well as on some of the next proposals, on the exclusion of the rules from the draft law that determine the increase in the remuneration of officials and employees of public institutions and institutions. We oppose the increase in the salaries of executive and legislative officials, which is to a large extent a rise in the remuneration of ourselves, as well as the increase in the monthly salary of the elected, approved and appointed officials of the Saeima, which is challenging in the circumstances caused by the pandemic, when a large part of the Latvian population is experiencing material difficulties. However, we are in favour of increasing the remuneration of judicial officials, namely judges and prosecutors. We believe that it is important to motivate this branch of power to be more independent from the executive, to mitigate the risks of political corruption in the judiciary. At the same time, we are in favour of increasing the monthly salaries of officials and staff employed by certain public authorities and local authorities, and we find it wrong to oppose this. In the country, too, the motivation for producers and service providers is that the overall wage level is increasing. Accordingly, it is the responsibility of the state to reconcile the remuneration of the employees of state institutions and local authorities with this. They are named by law. These are officials and employees of institutions regulating media activities, Central Electoral Commission, courts and prosecutors' offices, public foundations, scientific institutes, Latvian Academy of Sciences, Higher Education Council, municipalities, planning regions. The staff of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, the Chancellery of the President, the Saeima departments, the State Audit Office, the Ombudsman’s Office and the universities established by the State. Let us express our attitude by voting. We do not support this proposal, 33 for the reason I have mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U51	The name of the Member, Lubova Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U52	I believe that the importance, independence, stability and security of the judiciary must, of course, also be assessed in the context of an increase in remuneration for those working in the public administration. At the same time, however, it should also be linked to what can be afforded by a country that can afford public budgets. If the money is borrowed, are we really eligible to spend the money so quite as to ensure that there is an increase in wages for employees in the public administration sector, including judges? Does it relate to the achievement of specific results, and it is clearly defined in the annotation of any document or draft law, namely in the specific draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Authorities”? What will the judges achieve if we introduce a new remuneration system? What results, what services will be available to the public, how will quality be improved, how will competitiveness be improved? No data, no information. The position in the debate is also absent and silent. At the same time, if we look at something like a decline in the Latvian population over the years and compare it with a rate that shows whether there is a reduction in the number of employees in the public administration sector, we will not see any sharp trend, but we will see that, for example, in 2009 the population was 2 162 000 inhabitants, but in 2011 only 2 074 605. Thus, the number of Latvian residents decreased by 88 thousand. In 2013, the population was already reduced by another 50 thousand, in 2015 by 37 thousand, in 2017 by 35 thousand and in 2019 by 30 thousand and in 2020 by 26th. At the same time, the number of employees employed in the state administration remains practically unchanged. And since 2015, 58.1 thousand employees in state budget institutions and approximately 115 thousand employees in municipalities remain unchanged. And it could even be seen that in 2020 the number of employees in municipalities and other municipal bodies is 118 000, but in public administration... 57.9 thousand employees in state budgetary institutions. In other words, we see a reduction in the workforce last year - 0.2 per cent. And then the question arises: if, on average, we have a decrease in our population and a decrease in our population each year, then the number of employees in the relevant public services remains practically unchanged. The results remain unchanged. I believe that there is no reason to talk about raising wages at the moment, and this is an unvisitable action against the interests of citizens, and that is why I do not support this proposal either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U53	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U54	Dear President, Dear colleagues, As we do not have coalition Members in the budget debate, I think our audience could have been deduced for a long time... with very rare exceptions, at least yesterday such one exception has been, precisely one exception from the coalition Members and precisely one exception - the parliamentary secretary of the Ministry of Culture must be evaluated, the only one who has done his job yesterday, has fulfilled his direct duties. But now it's not a story. It is here that we have a debate already between the members of the opposition. I would like to respond in response to what my colleague, Igora Pimenova, said about it - which is supported and not supported. Our position, the Republic, is as follows: we do not support the raising of the salaries of such public officials in this situation, although we believe that the issue of raising the salaries of public officials is a matter for consideration only if it can really be demonstrated... There is evidence that insufficient remuneration does indeed result in the loss of able people for the private sector, only on such a condition. Otherwise, given the achievements of both today's public administration and the political government, there can be no talk about raising wages. If you want to look at the private sector: there is no increase in wages in the private sector, no increase in wages, no dismissal, no disciplinary punishment, but no pay for exit... no one has ever increased their wages for failure in the private sector. But for that part of this draft law, which is on the equality of three branches and on the same positions, namely on the equality of the legislator, the executive and the judiciary, “the Republic” fully supports... Otherwise, what a republic it is, if these three branches were in an unequal situation. That is why I have a colleague's desire, in particular, to support one of those branches in some way... I do not understand this wish, it is not something that I support. Since we were opposed to raising all their wages, we have put forward proposals that concern all branches, but given that our proposals on raising executive and legislative salaries were not supported, we also did not require votes and did not make any statements on our proposals on the judiciary. If it happens now that the remuneration will be increased for both the executive and the legislator, it is clear that, although we do not support the overall increase in wages... But it is clear that we cannot stand up in this situation, we must not stand up against increasing the remuneration of the judiciary. But it is interesting, colleagues, that, given that, despite the fact that the authors of this bill state that it is necessary to unify the positions of executive, judiciary, legislator, then perhaps one of the coalition Members who will be the parliamentary secretary who would be responsible for this... Perhaps the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, who we have, could you explain this unequal treatment to us, please: why is the representation expenses for ministers and the Prime Minister set at 20 per cent of the monthly salary, but only 10 per cent for the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court and Constitutional Court? This is not equal treatment. Could any coalition please explain such unequal treatment of judicial power?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U55	Your time is up. If you want an extra time, we will continue after a break. There is a break in this debate. And, honourable colleagues, we are not voting on this proposal, but we will continue the debate after a break. Members have been registered. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U56	Dear colleagues, We shall continue the sitting after a break with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”. We are on proposal 33. And there was a Member, Viktors Valainis, who took part in the debate. Please, name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U57	Dear colleagues, I would first like to thank Mr Reira, who nevertheless found time to join this debate, and it would be even better if someone tried to clarify the meaning and nature of the proposal from the coalition. So far we have heard very little, but on this proposal I will express the attitude of the Greens/Farmers' Union. We will not support this proposal because we believe that there are, however, categories of posts, groups which, however, must be supported by this law and for which these annexes must be set out. And in this case... This specific proposal concerns judges. And we support it for our part. And also in the course of the examination of this draft law... with regard to municipal Members and other groups, we believe that this should remain, however, because, if we look at: what concerns Members, Ministers, President, these officials, we do not say at any time that they do not need this wage supplement. We believe that this debate should go beyond the concept of this law. First of all, there are clear criteria for... One example was also the examination of this draft law, which was tabled by Mrs Švekova, where there was a proposal for some kind of criteria for determining this basic basis, from which the income level of elected officials is left. In this case, however, this is a little different. This is about judges and other categories in this group, which we believe is right. Of course, it is wrong that we put them in, so to speak, mix them all together and put such a relatively big reform in such an urgent order. Of course, at both the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government and the Commission for Budget and Finance (tax) we heard from the officials responsible that, however, this issue has been agreed at different levels in the Council for the Judiciary and various comments have been received, and everything seems much more consistent at least in this section, but it would have deserved to go through three readings, not as it is now proposed, in two readings. We support this section, but I will speak more specifically on the next proposal than on those inconsistencies in this draft law, which, however, is not understandable: why do some have one attitude, the other one attitude? And all this comes from the government. This specific proposal that judges should leave this bill is not acceptable in our view, so I also call for it not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U58	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr Kozlovsky, what will you comment on?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U59	As I said, this proposal is identical to the previous one. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U60	This is not supported. The debate has taken place, but this proposal cannot be put to the vote. Proposal No 34
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U61	34. - Cabinet proposal with similar arguments for inclusion in the section at the monthly salary. It is also provided to determine representation expenses for the President of the Constitutional Court and the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court in the amount of 10 per cent of the established monthly salary. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U62	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U63	Well, colleagues, you see, this proposal - this is the deformity that I am talking about, which is when the draft law is being examined as a matter of urgency in two readings and does not allow enough time to be seen in three readings. So what is this proposal? What does the government offer? The government proposes that these representation expenses are 10 per cent of the fixed monthly salary. And to whom it is - to the President of the Constitutional Court, to the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. Well, I think quite important officials in Latvia, and do they have, as you think, now in this... Are they comparable to another official? Are they comparable to the Prime Minister, for example? Of course, they're different... but, for example, if we look at the levels of pay, then the levels of pay are quite similar. If we look at the levels of representation, it is 20 per cent for the Head of Government, 10 per cent for the President of the Constitutional Court. Where's the logic? Why is that difference? If we look at the President of State, there is also a proposal from the government - 20 percent. 10 per cent for the President of the Constitutional Court. It seems to me at all about these premiums for the highest persons in the country, who are... with regard to the President of State, the Prime Minister... As I said, I called for this to be rejected and for it not to be supported at all. But in this case, it is already a matter of principle, and these are not proposals submitted by these institutions, they are proposals submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. Well then maybe one of the Cabinets of Ministers could apply for a debate and tell us what, in their opinion, the President of the Constitutional Court is worse than the Prime Minister? Because that's exactly what's happening at this point in terms of salaries... they are practically the same, but as regards representation expenses, they differ significantly. Where's the difference between him in this... or they're... if they need these representation expenses, what do they differ so much? How do they differ so much from the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, how do they differ from the President of the State in relation to representation? In the government's attitude, this difference is exactly twice. So twice as much as the Prime Minister. Well, I think it's like... shows just nothing more than this law, in my opinion, the unnegotiated nature and the fact that there may be clarification here or, on the contrary, it shows that much of what is taken from the air in this law has no rational basis, or it has been taken on the principle of “whatever you want”. Mr Kariņš, for example, asks: “How much do you want?” “Well 20 percent would be good.” ‘Please enter - 20 per cent.’ The judges asked: “How would you like?” “10 percent would be good.” For recordings, 10 percent. But is that right? This approach is not, in my opinion, the right one. If no one explains why 10 or 20 percent, then I have to assume that these figures are probably not justified. In the statement we also really find such grounds, read... There's no... At least I couldn't find something to explain. That is why I ask, perhaps at least one of the Ministry of Justice, a colleague of the JCPOA, perhaps Mr Feldman... Well, why did you allow people in the area of justice to have twice as much compensation as the head of government? Maybe the head of government is with something special... Is the President of Latvia more specific than the senior officials of the judicial system? Maybe I'm wrong, but now I'd like an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U64	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U65	Yes, colleagues, perhaps those who do not work in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission have not received a letter from the State Audit Office in connection with this draft law. Therefore, I will allow you to quote some of the sentences and arguments that the State Audit Office mentions about this draft law and proposed amendments to it. The urgency of progress of the draft law in the state budget package is not understandable to the State Audit Office. One of the general principles of law derived from the basic rule of law of a democratic, legal state is the rule of law. The principle of a state governed by the rule of law also leads to certain requirements in a state of law in respect of the legislative process. It is clear from the case-law of the Constitutional Court that general principles of law must be observed in the legislative procedure, as well as regulated procedural preconditions and requirements regarding the progress of the adoption of draft laws which are related to the state budget. In a democratic and legal state, the legislator also has an obligation, among other things, to inform the public in a timely and appropriate manner and to involve the public as far as possible in the legislative process and to consult the parties involved. In the view of the State Audit Office, the inclusion of the draft law in the package “On the State Budget 2022” is not justified. Firstly, the draft law is intended to enter into force on 1 July 2022, and for some of the norms it is planned to enter into force on 1 January 2023. The amount of additional funding, according to the statement of the draft law, is to be requested when looking at the draft state budget for 2023 and the draft medium-term budget for 2023, 2024 and 2025. No changes in funding are planned for the current year or compared to the medium-term budgetary framework in 2021, 2022. There is thus no basis for progressing the draft law as a matter of urgency. Secondly, due process was not ensured for the examination of the draft law in the Cabinet of Ministers and the principle of good lawmaking was not respected. Consequently, I believe that any of the articles proposed in the draft law which provide for a corresponding change in the remuneration system is unjustified and illegal. That is why I do not support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U66	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U67	Thank you. Three things. First thing. I will not talk about the nature of representation expenses for senior officials, because they represent or present not themselves, but the work and nature of their institution. The other thing. We are talking a lot about the fact that the judiciary is an independent power. This is an illustration of the fact that the power of the courts depends on a good wish or a bad wish that comes from the Cabinet of Ministers. Mr. Valaiņš correctly pointed out that the Prime Minister has 20 percent, but in his proposal to the President of the Supreme Court they are 10 percent. What does that mean? This means that in general remuneration of judges should be stipulated not in this law, but in the law “On Judicial Power”. And the third thing. I believe, and I think, that the President of Latvia will have the courage to return this draft law to the revision by demanding that it be removed from the budget package. I call for this proposal not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U68	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U69	In my opinion, the President of Latvia will not return this draft law for a simple reason: here good things are put together with bad things. And that is the biggest problem of this draft law. However, I have looked at this letter from the State Audit Office and also to you, colleagues,... and, with regard to this draft law, I think it is worth reading again the key message that is included here. Thus: ‘The Cabinet of Ministers did not ensure proper procedure and compliance with the principle of good lawmaking. The draft law was adopted at the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers on 29 September as a matter of urgency, without ensuring proper consultation with stakeholders.” I think if even the State Audit Office has not been involved, on the basis of which this law has been created at all? It is on these findings of the State Audit Office... Then how can we talk about sustainability and some kind of... a very good draft law improving governance. Therefore, there are already all the misconceptions and folly that are in this draft law - the contradictions that pass through and flow this draft law. This is a huge problem, which neither of our colleagues is trying to explain in any way, because it is probably also understood - this is the case. Well, I'm sorry that in the letter of the State Audit Office, this proposal, which follows all this great criticism, only for the State control itself and for their own salaries... Nothing else, unfortunately, is here. I therefore call for this proposal 34 to continue to explain why there is a double gap in these compensations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U70	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U71	Dear President, Dear colleagues, But above all, all those who listen to us today! This could be not so important a proposal and not so important a matter for the country - the differences in representation expenses, but what is very important and principled today is that the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia is holding a so-called debate on the budget, a debate in which coalition Members are not present, a debate in which so-called parliamentary secretaries of ministries and governments are not present, whose direct job is to explain their positions on legislative amendments. They don't participate, even though they're for themselves... the government demands them, the parliamentary secretaries, to increase their pay so that it can be measured in thousands - thousands! - euro. And that is when Members of the Saeima ask questions about why there is such a lack of compliance with declared objectives of the law, why there is a different attitude to executive power, president, senior officials of the Saeima and presidents of the court (the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court). When Members ask these questions, those questions shall remain unanswered. Without any answers, you too, the respected society. On the one hand, the authors of the bill... and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Latvia is responsible for the progress of the draft law, and the Prime Minister Kariņš is responsible for the progress of this draft law. And although the annotation states that the Constitutional Court... I quote: “The Constitutional Court has recognised that a balance between three branches of state power should be ensured.” In order to implement this, on the one hand, the authors of the draft law offer equal pay to the President of the State, the Speaker of the Saeima and the President of the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court. For no reason are the representation costs offered, but they are not the same. And that's the question: why are they not the same? How is this consistent with the declared purpose of the law? But none - none of the coalition Members, none of the governments - is ready today to answer those questions. This, honourable colleagues and respected audience, is a pitiful situation in which democracy in the Republic of Latvia is present today and respect... the legislator. More precisely, this lack of respect. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U72	Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U73	Dear President, Dear colleagues, We're talking about 34. - The Cabinet's proposal. And like the previous speaker, really objective questions. Specifically, as has already been mentioned, where is an objective explanation, where is that balance? Where, then, is the independence of these powers under the law of our highest country, this weighted ratio of power? What we are seeing - there is one in words, but there is something completely different in works. And if there were objective questions, why on the 31st proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers, where the Prime Minister 20 per cent - why here 10 per cent? These 20 per cent, which has nothing as a coalition supported the Prime Minister, are a higher premium on the wage for representation expenses than many inspectors and regulars receive in the State police. We can go see these wages, gross wages. This year, the average salary of 894 euros in the State Police Operational Command Family. The investigation... we see wages for people. The average salary of an inspector is EUR 1124, gross salary. And we can call and call great positions of positions, where very many people work. We can look at the salaries of the VUGD, we can look at regional schools and medical professionals, at what salaries, but here we gave the Prime Minister, with one free hand, an absolutely inadequate supplement to the wage representation expenses. But if we were talking about equality, it is clear that wage supplements were needed. Clearly, it had to go in the normal process through three readings, where we would discuss, invite and understand what, how, to really be more effective and to motivate people to work. But if we are talking about the proposal in question - why isn't that 20 percent then here? On what basis have 10 percent been calculated? We're talking about how much? It's not about hundreds of people. Here we are talking about the President of the Constitutional Court (it is one official) and the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court (it is the second official). We're talking about two people. Where is this equality? Why does the budget law, this year's most important law, make this inequality so pronounced, which, among other things, was described in a completely different way? So, colleagues, if we want to be consistent, then... I really looked forward to an objective explanation. And, by the way, if we are talking about ministers and parliamentary secretaries, we know very well... In the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, we have recently looked at the Ports Act. The most important law in the field of traffic, which might be the major ports, is the backbone of transit. We have never heard the Parliamentary Secretary at all. At the very beginning, the minister joined in for a short while and turned off after a few sentences. Here, the same thing is true: there are no simple explanations at the time of the budget. Let's get up and say why there's such inequality, colleagues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U74	I closed the debate. Please comment on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U75	On behalf of the Commission, I can say that this proposal was supported by the Commission, and there was no debate in the Commission, even on the second reading of this proposal, precisely on the subject that has been launched today. So, on behalf of the Commission, I am asking you to support the above-mentioned proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U76	Thank you. Please call me! To be put to the vote on 34. - A proposal from the Cabinet! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Proposal 34 is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U77	35. - a proposal from Members Pucenas, Papules, Girgens and Dombrovskis. It provides for the exclusion of point 10 of the draft law, which is in fact linked to an increase in prosecutors' remuneration. In fact, there was a request. This proposal therefore provides for a freezing of the increase. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U78	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U79	36. - the proposal by Members Svekova and Stepanenko. Same for the previous one. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U80	Members agree. This cannot be voted because Members have just accepted the 35th proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U81	So we're talking about 36, that's 37, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U82	37, yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U83	37. is the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers. And the nature of this is that based on the opinion of the Council for the Judiciary, this proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers establishes a more gradual increase in the difference between the remuneration of judges and prosecutors. And the Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U84	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U85	38. is the proposal of Members Švekova and Stepanenko. It is envisaged to exclude the new version of Article 11 from the remuneration of a number of officials and staff of permanent establishments. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U86	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U87	Colleagues! Similarly, as I said earlier, the change in the concept of pay for raising wages can only be linked to performance indicators and to raising the welfare of the population. And, as I also quote the opinion of the State Audit Office, given that there is no legal basis for the urgency of the draft law in question, it is not the right time or place to decide whether to raise the salary. These draft laws can be examined peacefully without urgency, by evaluating and implementing clear criteria, based on economically sound and also based on the relevant expertise, which could provide a truly assessed approach to wage growth. As long as the increase serves more to provide an electoral base for the political forces in power, I do not see a possible increase in this type of remuneration. That is why I am also asking for my proposal to be supported and for the rule to be removed from the draft law, which provides for an increase in the remuneration of local authorities and other public and administrative officials and employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U88	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U89	Colleagues, I cannot support this specific proposal. As I said, the draft law itself also contains a whole series of good things that have been incorporated, and of course, if we are talking about it, including the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the State Audit Office, the Ombudsman and other institutions, I think it is worth supporting and maintaining these proposals in this draft law. But here is already the trick embedded, that next year's budget, as colleagues say here, does nothing change, but in this law... We legitimise that, from 2023, the President of Latvia will have an additional EUR 46 630, and the Members of the Saeima will have an additional EUR 526 000, which will be necessary every year. The Cabinet of Ministers - 510 thousand euros will need extra each year, which is included in this law, in my opinion absolutely out of place. Moreover, these figures, which I have just named, will increase with each year. In 2024 the President of Latvia will no longer have 46 thousand, the increase will continue, and it will already be 51,856, which will be necessary in addition to the funding already available to ensure the functioning of the President of Latvia. With regard to the Saeima, the same thing. If it is 526 thousand in 2023, it is already 554 316 euros in 2024, which will be approved by this law and binding on the next Saeima. On the Cabinet of Ministers the same - from 510 thousand in 2023 to 568 504 euros - additional funding is needed, already now... and these are only these figures. The Cabinet of Ministers - 500 thousand, Saeima - 500 thousand, President - 50 thousand. I rounded it a little. Colleagues, these are salary supplements. These are salary supplements at the moment, during the crisis, for these officials. Therefore, my fellow Members, I cannot support this approach. This specific proposal is very... what my colleagues have submitted is about other officials who, in my opinion, should not be satisfied. As I have already mentioned, this law contains a whole range of categories of posts for which this salary supplement has been earned, which have worked and proved themselves at work. If we are talking about the government, the Prime Minister, the Members of the Saeima in a time of crisis, which is to a large extent this crisis... a very large effort to make its crisis as severe as it is at present, especially the members of the Saeima itself, as well as the members of the government. In my opinion, this should not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U90	Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please! ( Pause) We can't hear you, Mr. Tatar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U91	To add to what my fellow Members have said, I would really recommend that the coalition's representatives go through the current wage costs, see how all police officers, especially those who are physically working for shift work, are receiving at the moment. Look indeed at how many educators, doctors and what this supplement is for them at the moment, and then look at the Members, the Members of the Government, especially the Parliamentary Secretary, the Ministers and the Prime Minister, and the President's existing salaries, as they are at the moment, now this huge wage supplement, which is planned for 2023, plus various representation expenses. Therefore, colleagues, put it now in a single boiler without really careful analysis - it is unfair, it is bad if we look at our society as a whole, and especially some groups highlight with such huge wage supplements - it is really a grip on the whole of Latvian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U92	I closed the debate. Please comment on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U93	On behalf of the Commission, I can only remind you that this proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U94	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 38. - Mr Svekov and Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, 38. The proposal has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U95	39. is a proposal from Members Pucenas, Papules, Girgens and Dombrovskis. In fact, it provides for the exclusion of the norm of the draft law, which lays down a supplement to the Prosecutor General for his participation in the sitting of the Council for the Judiciary. Following the arguments put forward by the Legal Bureau, the Commission decided to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U96	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U97	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Dear colleagues, I will read to you the text of the proposal that has been submitted by the government to us as legislator. Thus: ‘The Prosecutor General shall receive, for each meeting of the Council for the Judiciary attended, an allowance of three per cent of the monthly salary of the district (city) prosecutor’. I'm honest with you... Colleagues, I call on you to think a little bit about this. Receives a premium for a visit to the Council for the Judiciary. And I'm not going to talk here about what's so much about the Council for the Judiciary that the Prosecutor General should pay for visiting the Council. But I will ask you all a question: if we are already talking about the fact that we have “one law - one truth for all” if the government offers us this practice now – to pay the Prosecutor General for the visit to the Council for the Judiciary – then why does the government not offer us a wider application of this practice? Then let us ask the question, colleagues, why not pay the Prime Minister for the visits to the government sitting? The premium, too. Then, as far as it is concerned, three per cent of the government minister's salary for the Prime Minister for the visit to the government sittings. And then, my fellow Members, I think we should not stop. Ministers should also, of course, pay for visits to government sittings, as well as three per cent for each of these sittings, I do not know, the salary of the Secretary of State. And then we will also pay Members for the visits to the Saeima sittings, for the visits to committee sittings. Will we also pay judges for attending court hearings? I hope that you have all understood how absurd this proposal is. That interesting thing, colleagues, is to try to understand where the government comes from (and I will remind you that the Prime Minister is the head of this particular draft law)... Where did this idea come from to impose such a premium on the Prosecutor General? I quote: “The Prosecutor General, who, according to the law “On Judicial Power”, is a permanent member of the Council for the Judiciary and participates in the sittings of the Council for the Judiciary, does not provide for a supplement for every sitting attended, as is the case with the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. In order to prevent this unequal treatment, the draft law provides that in the future the Prosecutor General will receive a bonus of three per cent of the monthly salary set for the prosecutor of the district (city) for each meeting of the Council for the Judiciary visited.” And so on. So imagine, colleagues, the logic of the draft law. They don't ask a question why any official, even the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court... Why should he give a premium for visits to the Council for the Judiciary? They conclude that if the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court has such a bonus and the Prosecutor General does not have it, it is not fair. Then it is also necessary to establish a premium for the Prosecutor General. Therefore, it is quite clear, colleagues, continuing this path of logic: if the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court has to pay for the visit to the Council for the Judiciary and the Prosecutor General has to pay a premium for it, then it is not as far as the Prime Minister, the Ministers and the Speaker of the Saeima. And then to members of the Bureau, and then to Members, Ministers and... Perhaps, colleagues, also officials should pay allowances for the fact that they come to work, for every day? You came to work, then, here's the bonus for you, a few percent of the average salary. Where's the brain, colleagues? I call for our proposal to be supported and for this nightmare to be removed.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U98	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U99	On behalf of the Commission, I can only say that, once again, after hearing the Legal Bureau's arguments about the ban on the actual treatment of differences, this proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U100	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 39. - the proposal tabled by Members Pucenas, Papules, Girgens and Dombrovskis! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Proposal 39 is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U101	40. is the proposal from Members Pucenas, Papules, Girgenas and Dombrovskis. It provides for the exclusion of paragraph 14 of the draft law and is in fact linked to the fixing of the monthly salary premium for officials and staff. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U102	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U103	Hello, colleagues! We have reached the premium system. And on this point, I think we could talk a long time and wide, and also, as I said yesterday, Mr Citskovsky from the State Chancellery spoke on these allowances and wage systems at the Saeima Public Expenditure and Audit Commission. And my proposal, as I will say, was for the State Chancellery to send the Commission an overview of what premiums are now and what premiums are in the system of public institutions. Of course, as always when we receive information from the State Chancellery, it is always prepared in such a way that the true sizes are not illuminated. Yeah... As an example I can mention... rather than specifically showing the number of additional posts received, the general... For example, the Lottery and Gambling Monitoring Inspectorate - what are the employees, what is the average salary, what is the average premium. Some examples can be found at the moment, such as the National Health Service. If the average salary in the service is EUR 1296, the automatically average monthly allowance is EUR 519 for every employee and the additional bonus is paid EUR 515. But you can't count it in such a way that the premium is on average for every person. Let us take the example of the National Health Service, where the famous vaccination office with Mrs. Juhveviča has been transferred, which at the moment, if we study much deeper, certainly does not receive an additional EUR 519, but with overtime... or maybe we're replacing some extra staff... This sum could go by several thousand. Just like Mr Citskovsky. I asked him a question so that he could explain what additional posts he was performing... what wise thing to achieve is that his bonuses currently amount to about 100 percent of his salary, which is EUR 2441, which he would have to receive, but in general he receives more than EUR 5000. And if we look at this same National Chancellery, the average salary is EUR 1568, but the average additional monthly allowance for employees is EUR 429. If we can count it, it's about 30... about 30 percent, even more. But if we look at Mr. Citskovsky himself, it already accounts for 100 percent. That means that if Mr. Citskovsky receives 100 percent, there is definitely less - 10 percent, maybe even less. If there is such a wish, you can definitely turn to the Public Expenditure and Audit Commission of the Saeima and get this table and report where we are (not to be heard.) ... Scrapulously, we can see how generous the ministries are now, for example, the Ministry of Finance, whose bonuses can be paid out, of course, including such double... another salary. Similarly, the Ministry of Agriculture does not lag behind, which automatically pays more than 30 per cent of the monthly allowance to each employee. And pay the thirteenth salary. In this way, we can go on long and dictated by every institution, and my proposal is that the official, the public authorities should give up these bonuses. And if they stay in a certain amount, then also the accounts due for this... whether these bonuses are not automatic... or really for any merit. If we look at this list too, the reason why every ministry or institution pays... This is, let's say, a copy-paste - bonuses for personal work input and quality of work, supplements for fulfilling duties in addition... for additional posts in the absence of a staff member, these are general phrases which are untraceable and verifiable, or indeed it was necessary to pay these premiums in addition. As I mentioned, in the Ministry of Agriculture, each employee automatically receives additional bonuses and bonuses, regardless of the quality of the work. Thank you, I call for our proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U104	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U105	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Indeed, it is true that this premium practice in the public administration is highly questionable because it misleads the public on the actual amount of civil servants' remuneration. This, of course, also questions the argument of the State Chancellery that, here, the level of remuneration in the public administration is uncompetitive compared to the private sector, because of course, the question arises as to whether all the premiums have actually been properly counted. Interestingly, according to the law, the maximum amount of premiums should not exceed 60 percent, but here just my colleague Kaspars Girgens showed that the amount of premiums would probably exceed 60 percent, but could even double the civil servant's salary. For us too, the State Chancellery has told us quite a lot about the fact that, here, this increase in remuneration in the public administration is necessary for it to give up the allowances. But do we actually see this withdrawal from benefits? Very, very partially at best. Yes, it is proposed to reduce the maximum premium from 60 to 30 percent, but, as our colleague Kaspars Girgens has already said, today we seem to be seeing that the premium is in some way in excess of... could exceed 60 per cent. If that is not the case, I again call on either a Member of the Government or one of the many parliamentary secretaries, who have a direct responsibility today to stand down and dispel such issues, to speak and to explain to us that this is not true. But then the allowance for vacant posts in the public administration, which was an absolutely absurd, absurd bonus from the beginning, is deleted. What is it? When does the staff member fulfil his vacant post? Does this mean that at first his own, so to speak, in the workplace for which he receives full time pay, it is not quite full time? But what happens to other bonuses? I watched it from the presentation of the State Chancellery... The State Chancellery offers to delete the special premium keys for people. This premium will therefore be deleted but replaced by a market rate premium. The State Chancellery then proposes to delete the premium for the personal contribution and quality of the work, but this premium will be replaced by a premium for the contribution to the strategic objectives of the institution. In reality, we can see that such a... in the facade such an eye-moulding that some bonuses are simply converted into other bonuses, simply transferred, but premium practices will continue after this decision to raise remuneration. So let's sum up, colleagues. The State Chancellery offered to raise remuneration, arguing that it is necessary to arrange the remuneration system by abandoning this very controversial premium practice and moving to a transparent remuneration system. As a result, we see wage increases, but we do not see a real waiver of the premium. I am not even talking about this practice in public administration by combining posts. For example, the manager of “Latvian Railways” is also Chairman of the “Riga Water” Council. It must be so good to deal with your job duties by running “Latvian Railways” that you can afford to be Chairman of the Council. At the same time, several officials are members of the board or board of all capital companies. Is it eliminated? No, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U106	The debate is over. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U107	Colleagues, in my opinion, this proposal is very important and is in place for this debate, because the proposal itself provides for the exclusion of this article. But here I am... I want to remember the reasons that the State Audit Office tried very desperately to point out to the Saeima, the government, where there is then the problem in the state administration, where it is currently wrong. Here, Mr Dombrovskis rightly said that there is an official in various other additional posts, but all this is for various reasons, and the law allows it to hold high-level officials, really high-level officials, who work hard above working hours and who do indeed carry out their duties in a respectable manner. Because really, there is also a fight for such people in the private sector. And none of the high-level officials I know, who have really done their work in good faith and for various reasons are now in senior office... At the moment it's not that they're sitting out of work, but they're really... much better paid jobs, operating in various types of capital companies, companies and so on, but... And this is a problem, which also from the presentations of the State Audit Office with this uniform remuneration law... There should have been a solution, there should have been a solution, so that it would not go on. Can any of the promoters of this bill now say that it will no longer continue? Can anyone say that that provision, which is contained in the basic law, is inserted into it that, if the official has several of the... So for these bonuses, that 30 percent of the monthly salary can be this bonus, and here are different... total - that it must not exceed 50 per cent of the monthly salary, and yet a number of detailed criteria which, as Mr Girgen said, we see officials who, to put it, feel that this salary is already twice as high as their basic salary. Are we dealing with this in some way? The norm itself is that it is right. It is right that if an official replaces another official... I think it's right... that then she receives some kind of bonus. This same rule applies not only to officials, it also applies to ministers - they also have substitution premiums, but I do not want to say that this is wrong. This is true if he actually fulfils those duties if it is not a matter of urgency. The arrangements currently in place are, to a large extent, in the wake of - definitely in the case of officials. All these premiums, which the State Audit Office desperately tried... to show for all years that if you have a salary of one and a half thousand, you are already in the ministry, but you will have 30 percent for a job done well, and you will get a supplement, we will forgive you. Is that normal? Is this a clear, transparent, high-management single-rate remuneration law? I don't think so. Are we going to achieve some kind of change in this whole by this law that we are looking at today? Let us be honest, colleagues, I think there will be no change. This provision will continue to operate in the same way as it has been working so far. And these annexes, which are here... precisely because we do not look at this issue normally in three readings, we do not see these side effects - these side effects, which also form the hub of the law. It is like a good norm that is good and correct in this law, but it is used for years to achieve completely different objectives than why it is included there. Consequently, in the draft law, I believe that this provision must be left, it is already good in nature, so I cannot support this proposal, I call for a 'no' vote, but overall, the fact that it has been tabled and shows this debate is completely in place and needs to be debated, and this system is now... I don't think it's going to be sustainable in the future exactly...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U108	Thank you. The debate is over. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U109	Thank you. Well, the first thing I would like to say is that there is hardly any value of what the vote will be on this or on other proposals, because its roles have already been divided and the outcome is about being known. It is therefore much more important to talk about the substance of the matter. And in this case, the question of bonuses is really very interesting and very difficult, because unfortunately, the premium system in public administration has turned into a permanent bonus in order to circumvent the existence of a single wage system. Then it also appears, let us say, artificial vacancies, because, let us say, the institution demands a number of jobs on the establishment plan, cannot and does not want to complete it, and hence a link is emerging. In general terms, in terms of bonuses and pay, the main question is: what do we pay, what do people pay: about the process or about the results? And that is what a lot has been said about today and yesterday - the criteria. And those criteria, also in terms of pay, for bonuses, are extremely important. Therefore, the authors of the bill seem to me to have very little researched this case in practice as well as in theory. Because when it was about, let's say, those bonuses for taking part in some meetings and other things... It has to be said that this practice once existed also in the Saeima - that Members received remuneration for attending commissions and sub-committee meetings. At that time, the commission worked almost overnight, but also (A sound break.) ... time showed that the process is important, but the result is much more important, and therefore this norm was removed. I would therefore call for support today for the proposed proposal to be the subject of further work. I am sure that this draft law will be returned, despite all the attempts to bribe the President of Latvia in a rather ridiculous way... that he will, however, have the courage to return this bill. But in this case, I call for support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U110	Name of Member Evia Papulei. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U111	Thank you. Madam President, Colleagues and colleagues! It is clear that if the government has put forward such a proposal, which we are proposing to change and repeal, then there are two things to do with it. First. Obviously, the single administration remuneration system has ceased to exist. It no longer excuses itself. It's been created a few years ago, almost ten years ago, or even more... And it is clear that this remuneration system has exhausted itself and is no longer able to keep track of our success in the common good of the country and in terms of people's remuneration. ( For success I was ironing.) And it is understandable that this system does not really allow to recruit or retain those people who still believe in the Latvian state administration system and that officials can also preserve something, create something and develop something. Rather, the proposal to simply eliminate this system and to instruct the Cabinet of Ministers to create a new one quickly, as a matter of urgency, should be supported. And the other thing. The bonus system, of course, indicates that it has also failed or ceased to exist, or that there is no longer a need for an ongoing formal evaluation system for officials, which operates not only in the ministries of public administration but also in other places. It seems that its mutual evaluation should be abandoned and more force and time and creativity should also be devoted not to filling out tables that were designed by the State Chancellery at the time, but to dealing with normal issues on the agenda, especially if we are talking about the field of education, where it would really be important for public administration solutions, not to put all the problems in place for municipalities, schools and the school administration, without yet increasing the salaries of educators. It seems that at this point I would call on the ruling coalition to think about how public administration employees in general are paid and why they are so low, why there is no competition and why people now choose not to work in public administration. And that is not a question of conviction, but, I agree, of pay. Stimulating bonuses only shows that a resource crisis is also expected in public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U112	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U113	Colleagues! I would disagree with the statement by the Treasury that only because of the incompetitiveness of remuneration the State has left the workforce. May I also say that according to research, the desire of a person to work in a job or position, including in the state administration, is influenced not only by remuneration, but also by the atmosphere collective, the quality and stability of the working environment, including the attitude of management. And let me also remember that about a year ago, when it happened... During the meeting of the Commission on Public Expenditure and Audit, I asked Mr Citskovska what reasons he thought were the fact that he had resigned from office at the time. Was that not because of politics, not because of remuneration? Of course, as well as being due to the senior official, Mr Citskovsky avoided the answer, but he did not deny that there was a correlation between the fact that people left work in the civil service also with regard to political influence, with political pressure. And I think anyone working in public administration... enough, let's say that, for a long time, and for a given level... is very aware of its political influence and political pressure on politicians. Perhaps the real reason for all peripetations with the inability to find a higher official in public administration is directly linked to political pressure and the influence of politicians, not to professionalism and remuneration. And accordingly, the question of collective formation, of its loyalty and also of the premium, because yes, premiums are actually an instrument used by the head of the institution to form a loyal, supportive, possibly in some cases silent and, consequently, a team in office. What do I mean by that? In the same presentation, it was said that respectively, in Scandinavian countries, no premiums exist for those working in the state administration. And if the wish of the President and the Prime Minister is to bring Latvia closer to the Scandinavian model of countries in both business, public administration and other areas, then in fact you should give up the premium, because real work in public administration must be self-earned... and pride in the fact that a person represents the state and provides services to citizens. And in this case, indeed, the difference between the basic salary and the premium - it is just a deranged instrument that allows us to manipulate people, manipulate officials and build a loyal collective that is not based on professionalism, but, let us say, subject to and consent to the leadership, to the performance of their tasks. It also creates uncompetitiveness, which is responsible for critical achievements in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic in Latvia. It is the direct responsibility of ministers, public administrations and the relevant departments. And if we cannot act normally and properly, then we are not entitled to raise wages either. Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U114	I closed the debate. Please comment on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U115	Proposal 40 was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U116	Please call me! Let's vote for 40. - the proposal tabled by Members Pucenas, Papules, Girgens and Dombrovskis! Please, let's vote! For - 25, for - 53, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U117	41. - a proposal from Members Pucenas, Papules, Girgens and Dombrovskis. It is envisaged to exclude the part of point 14 of the draft law relating to the procedure for establishing the premiums and, accordingly, the amount of the premiums. The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U118	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U119	I will try to quote the substance of this proposal, perhaps the coalition Members have not read it at all. Thus, "at least once a year - shall be reviewed on the basis of its necessity and justification. The state and municipal institutions shall determine the premium in such a way that the monthly salary of the official (official) together with the allowance does not exceed the monthly salary set by the Prime Minister.’ In short, it is possible to assess these bonuses every month, and now, with the amount of the monthly salary and the premium, the Prime Minister's salary must not be exceeded. So if I am not mistaken, the coalition has decided that the Prime Minister's remuneration will already be more than seven thousand euros. At the moment, this, in my view, opens up even more locks, more pay for these officials, to whom they can seek all these bonuses. The system of these bonuses is immeasurable... how you can raise your salary. I mentioned above this downloaded file about how the bonuses... and on what criteria they receive. Then one of the main issues is... Each institution shall have a certain number of posts as they are ready to employ. In reality, on average... about... at least 10-15 per cent of the posts are vacant and these remaining staff are theoretically replacing the number of staff that would appear necessary. Here should already be a more in-depth analysis of whether really all these employees, who are still presented, in case... or every year for them... is the same number and does not change, and additional premiums are paid on this basis. My forecasts were also fulfilled... what I had also read on the Internet about the vaccination office - in what way they provide the salaries originally promised if I do not lie over some three thousand euros, but when I moved to the National Health Service, there were more than one thousand euros to two thousand euros in reality. And, of course, it did not take a long time to pay for overtime. I would also be surprised that these overtimes will certainly cost on 18 November... and also on the night of November 18, when they have worked very hard to reach the level that was promised previously. But this remuneration, which I believe should be assessed by the manager in substance - whether it really is due, because everything is going on automatically at the moment. And if each of us asked whether Mrs Juhvevič would have to pay for her work, for her promised 70 percent of the vaccinated people, who will be already in September, I think not. Just like the Head of the State Chancellery, about these decisions that it is necessary to restrict shops, not allowing people to buy even underwear... He later also admitted that this approach had not been the right one. Then we should definitely see... there should be a reduction in his salary, but in reality this is not the case. This whole system must therefore be improved and returned to it, because now, I say, it is chaos, and anyone who has no confidence in what particular officials are paid for... I call on you to support the proposal of the "Republic" party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U120	I closed the debate. Please comment on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U121	41 proposals were not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U122	Please call me! We will vote for 41. - the proposal tabled by Members Pucenas, Papules, Girgens and Dombrovskis! Please, let's vote! For - 22, for - 51, for - 1. Proposal 41 is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U123	42. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is a editorial nature. Partially supported... it was included... has already been partially supported in proposal 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U124	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U125	And 43. - The Cabinet's proposal. Consequently, this proposal, the editorial nature of the proposal 4, has also been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U126	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 43. - A proposal from the Cabinet! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U127	44. - the proposal by Members Svecova and Stepanenko, which provides for the practical exclusion of the benefit from the Saeima... including Members, if they are not re-elected. The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U128	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U129	Thank you. Colleagues, I believe that unemployment benefit of the amount of one month's salary is not payable if a person has not obtained an appropriate mandate from his constituents or, let us say, the employer - the voters, the Latvian people - has not elected this person anymore. And that also means that a benefit from taxpayers' money would not be entitled to it. That is why I am also offering to introduce, say, appropriate regulation, to save taxpayers' money and to spend it much more efficiently than compensating fallen Members... the existence of remuneration after not being elected to the next Saeima. I ask my colleagues to support my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U130	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U131	44. proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U132	Please call me! To be put to the vote on 44. - the proposal put forward by Members Svekova and Stepanenko! Please, let's vote! It's not about 19, it's against 51, it's not. 44. The proposal has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U133	45. - The Cabinet's proposal. The officials and persons to whom contracts have been concluded for a fixed period of time shall be affected and they shall determine the cases in which no allowance shall be paid after the expiry of that period of office. The Cabinet's proposal was approved by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U134	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U135	46. - The Cabinet's proposal. As in the previous case, the officials and the cases where the severance grant is paid are also concerned. The Commission has partially supported and included this proposal. 47 - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U136	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U137	47. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Consequently, in view of the previous partial support, clarification of terminology means that the Commission was supported in fact by a drafting proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U138	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U139	48. - a proposal from Members Pucenas, Papules, Girgens and Dombrovskis. Accordingly, the issues that have already been addressed and supported today concerning the inclusion of representation expenses in this chapter of the monthly salaries have been addressed. Accordingly, this proposal was specifically supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U140	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U141	Colleagues, we have also submitted for these 20 per cent additional premiums, and we also believe that such additional funding should not be allowed, just as with the additional premiums. There are many other more important areas in the country at present where both the Saeima and the government need to focus their attention at the present time. I therefore call on you to support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U142	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 48. - the proposal tabled by Members Pucenas, Papules, Girgens and Dombrovskis! Please, let's vote! No, 57, no, nine, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Proposal 48 is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U143	49. - the proposal by Members Svekova and Stepanenko. The Commission has been supported, and I would also like to remind once again on behalf of the Commission, that, as a result, we have supported, through this draft law, the definition of the highest representation expenses of officials, which is 20 per cent of the monthly salary, and we have therefore supported it in specific articles. The Commission therefore supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U144	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U145	Yes, there was a cunning legal structure that resulted in the adoption of this proposal, with the support of the majority of the previous proposal. What, though, did we really want to say? We only wanted to say that the premium should be clearly defined according to the criteria on which... they are granted. Unfortunately, the draft law does not set such clear and clear conditions. Neither the minimum, midpoint, maximum for application of the coefficient scale, nor the link between the determination of variable remuneration and performance. And in general, it therefore leaves very wide room for internal manipulation, using the newly introduced model of this draft law for those working in public administration respectively. Given that, in practice, this is one of the last proposals that I can debate in defence of, I would just like to say once again that I will vote against this draft law, because I believe that it is not based on a specific definition of the results to be achieved, it is not in line with the current economic situation. This does not imply any significant change in the result-based approach to the assessment of the work of public administrations. And this involves a very significant increase in the remuneration of the senior officials of the state. But the performance of these senior officials does not create any illusions in me, and I do not believe that they deserve this increase in remuneration. I would also like to say once again that increasing wages must be accompanied by economic recovery, a reduction in public debt and an increase in the welfare of the population. If this happens, it may also be decided to increase the remuneration of employees in public administration. Given that all these fundamentals are not resolved in this draft law, I will also vote against the draft law and, accordingly, I believe that the draft law has no place in the budget package. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U146	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U147	I would just like to remind you that the Commission supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U148	Please call me! We will vote for 49. - the motion of Members Svekova and Stepanenko! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Proposal 49 is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U149	50. - the proposal from Member Lochmele. It also concerns the regulation of these representation expenses. As I mentioned on behalf of the Commission, this has been supported in the proposals already adopted. The Commission therefore supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U150	Yes, the proposal is not to be put to the vote, but is to be debated. The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U151	Hello, colleagues! I would like to correct what the Commissioner said about the fact that my proposal seems to have been supported in previous proposals. This is not true, because the essence of my proposal was to exclude at all a position such as a premium for senior state officials for representation expenses. It hasn't happened. It's just... As I mentioned in the previous debate, the Cabinet of Ministers has acted like... I have no other words than cunning and, with the exception of the article which I proposed to remove from the bill by virtue of that proposal, it has been divided over the entire text of the law by providing for these premiums for each of the senior officials separately. The only thing that was taken into account in relation to representation expenses was the indication by the Legal Bureau that the contribution of expenses to representation expenses as a separate type of compensation, which is not subject to personal income tax... The Legal Bureau considered that this was not in line with the objectives and nature of the work of the senior state officials. Because it really represents our country, and this type of bonus is absolutely not, I would say, what is happening now, for example, in the European Union's parliaments. I think if one of the Members of the Swedish Riksdag said that there are such allowances for our senior officials, they would be shocked. And I think if German Members were to say that no one in Latvia is required to report this kind of premiums with specific documents, invoices, cheques and so on, they would be even more shocked. But, as I said, the Cabinet of Ministers acted more treacherously: they divided this section, where there is my proposal, into parts, agreed with the Legal Bureau's view that it is still necessary to impose this supplement with personal income tax, but it does not change anything in substance. Our Latvian state officials will receive in future an allowance for representation expenses of 20 per cent of their salary, which will never be accounted for by anyone. And it is a hidden supplement to wages, which is not justified, because, as I said, any positions that could be included here in the same way (and that is the reality) are now covered by the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U152	Thank you. 50. - the proposal from Member Lochmele has been approved. Here we go 51.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U153	51. - The Cabinet's proposal. It's similar. And it's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U154	There is no vote, but we can debate it. So, my name is Regina Lochmele. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U155	Yeah, with me, 51. - I would like to highlight the proposal...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U156	This is not your proposal. This is a proposal from the Cabinet, Mrs Ločmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U157	Then I'm sorry. I'll answer...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U158	Yes, the Cabinet of Ministers. Yeah, thank you. So I closed the debate. Members... We are not voting because we have already voted in favour of this proposal. Proposal No 52 Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U159	52. - Member Nemir's proposal. It also concerns the editorial regulation of representation expenses. And is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U160	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U161	53. - the proposal from Member Lochmele. It is envisaged to postpone the increase in the remuneration of these officials from 1 January 2023 to 1 January 2025. The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U162	The proposal cannot be put to the vote because we have voted in favour of 48, but there is room for debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U163	The deadline for the entry into force of the annexes to the highest-ranking official's office in Latvia caused a storm of debate, very great anger on the part of the people of Latvia, but the ruling coalition justified...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U164	Mrs Ločmele, please excuse me, we must, unfortunately, stop this debate, we will vote in favour of the bill and your debate will take place after a break. There's a break for an hour, by 13:30. Registration of the presence of Members. It's over. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U165	Dear Members, Honourable Members! We are continuing the examination of the agenda of the second remote extraordinary sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 15 November 2021 after a break. We consider 53rd proposal in the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”. The draft law has been declared urgent, second reading. A debate has been launched. The floor will be held for Ms Regina Ločmel. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U166	Hello, colleagues! My proposal will be one of the last in this draft law. In the draft law, which led to a very intense debate in the whole society and became the basis for great indignation among the people of Latvia because in a crisis situation, in the conditions of a community pandemic, the majority of the Saeima allowed to decide on a large increase in the remuneration of the state's senior officials. Prime Minister, ministers' salaries will rise... several times greater than, for example, our educators, medical practitioners - those who would really need this supplement at pay under the current difficult economic conditions. My proposal, which was rejected, provided for a delay in raising these wages until 1 January 2025. Let me explain why. Well, first of all, the fact that the ruling coalition justified its decision to make wages to the state's senior officials... based on the fact that, here, it will not apply to our ministers, it will not apply to the present, to the Members of the Saeima, to the current President of the State, but will only come into force from 1 January 2023, so after the people are elected - 14. - The Saeima. But they forgot that without the budget for next year, we would also be voting on the three-year budgetary framework in the near future. And this three-year budgetary framework also provides for all public spending for the next three years, just before 1 January 2025. I believe that one year before the parliamentary elections, it is legitimate for this Saeima to adopt amendments to the law on the remuneration of state senior officials only from 2025, because what will be adopted for both next year and 2023 is part of this, 13th Saeima mandate and power. I believe that if there is indeed a need to deal with the remuneration of public officials in the context of improving the quality of their work, it is not for us to decide on this - 13. The Saeima, which may enter into Latvia's parliamentary history as the least quality Saeima in all Latvia's history, is, but 14. The Saeima is the Saeima that will come behind us and will be elected by the people, looking at what mistakes are made at the moment. Please... I can no longer ask for support because you, the ruling coalition, decided differently but wanted to base your position on this proposal. It is a pity that this has not been supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U167	I closed the debate. This proposal cannot be put to the vote, but the debate was possible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U168	54. - The Cabinet's proposal. The transitional provisions concerning the time limits for entry into force shall be specified in the light of previously supported proposals. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U169	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U170	Thank you. Dear President, Dear colleagues, Here, too, is... This proposal provides for the freezing of the payment system by 2025. It should be stated that freezing of damaged semi-finished products may occur; it may not be used in frozen form or in frozen form. That is one reason why this proposal should not be supported either. Second round. Previous practice shows that the remuneration law was amended 34 times over a period of less than 12 years, including this time. Who else did not deal with it - both the Legal Commission, the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, and the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government. Very often, on a regular basis - 14 times - the law was amended by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. What we have received is that we have received it, but it already shows that it is impossible to guarantee that no changes to the system will be introduced. And the third. Even this bill... Compulsoryly, we will be forced to return to it, because there is indeed, on the one hand, an enormous number of tusks and, on the other, there is an enormous amount of cynicism. And here, when it comes to the draft law in general, the last proposal is linked to it... I have to say that it would be very good... I have never turned to the voters from the parliamentary tribunal, but in this case I would like to use it - take a list of supporters, supporters of the bill, surnames when going to the polling stations next autumn. Take a look! Perhaps you will find very many surnames on the electoral roll, and then think very strongly about whether to support people who are thinking above all about their well-being and not about the well-being of the people, and not about the happiness of the people, if you can say so in loud words, which use the very loud words, that "we take care of the development of the country for the rest of the people". The other people they care about are very narrow... But I think today and yesterday during the review... Why were the members of the coalition not taking part in the elections? I allow a number of possibilities, and I think that the principle that was meant in the film Brilliant's hand, where there was such an interesting saying: "If you don't buy tickets, let's turn off gas." In this case, perhaps there were easy hints, perhaps it was pointed out that - you will not force the right button, you will not be on the electoral roll in the next elections. That is why it is very important that voters assess, in real terms, who really care about the country and the people of the country, about the people and who care primarily for their welfare. I therefore call for no support to be given to this proposal or to the draft law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U171	I closed the debate. Mr. Kozlovsky, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U172	On behalf of the Commission, I can only say that this proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U173	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 54. - The Cabinet's proposal! Please vote mode! 51, 22, abstain - not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U174	Colleagues! All the proposals submitted have been examined. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U175	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! - 51, against - 33, abstaining - not. The law is passed. The next draft law on the agenda of the sitting is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on International Assistance, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U176	Hello, honourable leader of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, We can see the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on International Assistance". One proposal from the Legal Office was received by the Commission, calling for Article 4 of the draft law to be excluded, justified by the need to look at the proposed changes outside the budget package. The legal bureau's proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U177	We launched a debate on the proposal. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U178	Thank you, colleagues. As we can see, the Legal Bureau also noticed and said that what was proposed in the budget package, as appropriate, does not really apply to the legislative framework of this established budget. What I actually have to say in the context of this draft law is that this draft law essentially provides for the creation of two additional posts. And I believe that, in the context of this, too, with the bill just adopted by the majority of the Saeima on the increase in remuneration, this is a striking example of how the public administration deals with the cloning of literally officials or an increase in the number of officials. And, unfortunately, this next... The 2022-2024 budget package contains some laws relating to the creation of additional posts for the public administration. So, let us say, the civil service is growing and continues to grow, and salaries for these services will continue to rise. You know, colleagues, I believe that very many things and very many functions can be done through more efficient organisation of labour resources and the use of technology as well. And I will tell you that, in view of the considerable contribution that is being and will be made to the development of digital skills, digital technologies and the digitisation of public administration... It is imperative to consider in the context of the fact that we are still continuing to increase the number of people employed in public administration. I will therefore vote against this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U179	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U180	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Colleagues and colleagues! I would like to add that in the context of the budget, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs plans to create an additional 10 new posts, three of which are time-limited. So we see that, despite the fact that demographics are not too positive in Latvia, we continue to grow contrary to what is also written in government declarations - we continue to grow a public administration apparatus. And at this point, really, by raising remuneration, which in itself would not be the worst way... for which remuneration is increased alone and which does not increase remuneration at the same rate or at the same percentage. But in this case, it would not be possible to support the creation of additional new posts, including in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I call for no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U181	The debate is closed. Mrs Benhen-Beeken, would you like to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U182	I can only add that the draft law included the following amendments to Article 9, which provide for the right of the applicant not to grant a grant if the applicant has been found guilty of bribery-related crimes. This was a recommendation made by the OECD Working Group on the fight against bribery in international business transactions. The Bureau considered that this should be seen in a much broader and more detailed manner. The Commission therefore supported the proposal... must be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U183	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U184	In general, the Commission examined and supported further progress on the draft law. Consequently, I invite you to join the Commission's decision and support the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U185	Thank you. Please, call! Let us vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on International Assistance". Please vote mode! No, 71, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. The next draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance” is on the agenda, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Rihards Kozlovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U186	Dear President, Dear colleagues, The agenda includes the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance”. A total of 23 proposals have been received. 1. is a proposal from Members Papule, Dombrovskis, Girgen and Pucken. Provision is made for health insurance for side effects caused by Covid-19. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U187	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U188	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Colleagues and colleagues! Yes, we have discussed this in the approval of amendments to the relevant law or orders, but at the same time, Latvia, listening to what the European Parliament is discussing, will have to set up a special fund that will still pay people for the side effects caused by the cosmos. Latvia would get it if it looked at alternative ways to motivate people to vaccinate. Not by penalties, not by increasing the remuneration of officials, not by increasing the representation expenses, we will motivate people to vaccinate, but by correct speaking and with the right incentive instruments. If we can already insure people, including against health risks, and we have an appropriate Medical Fund covering these cases, then in any case, Latvia could also recognise, first of all, that there are also side effects with the community, and second, that the community is also a disease that can be insured. This proposal is therefore more to be seen in this case as an incentive for the coalition to assess how to motivate people and also to assess the consequences of the co-morbidity. And the consequences of the community's disease are also in Latvia. We therefore urge the coalition, however, to think more positively about the people - not just to try and not just to punish - and I hope not to raise more penalties. I therefore call for support for the proposal at this point in time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U189	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U190	Yes, colleagues, I also join in the proposal made by Mrs Papule and support this proposal, because the draft law on the remuneration of public officials just approved also provides, by the way, for changes in the wording, which require the President of Latvia and his/her representative to have a different threshold to that of the insurance premium. At the meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, we also had a debate, where representatives of the President of Latvia and insurers were invited. Insurers have pointed out that it is precisely the new amendments to this draft law, which have just been approved by a majority in the Saeima, that provide a much broader opportunity to interpret what is then the insurance premium for the President and his Mrs. I believe that there should also be solidarity and thought about people, especially those who may really be worried and afraid of the vaccination procedure as such and who should take responsibility towards the public. If we are already talking about a different approach to insurance for the President and his Mrs, then perhaps there are also serious grounds for considering and providing citizens with insurance against possible side effects caused by Covid-19 vaccination. It would only be fair and also accountable to society. And then it could be said: yes, in this case, too, the President deserves, with Mrs President, that the amount of premiums insurance is adequate for their responsibility, their view of what should then be the insurance premium for the highest representative public officials. Let us not forget about people and let us support this proposal by ensuring public confidence in the legislative power, which cares not only for officials but also for people. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U191	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U192	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Dear colleagues, This is another proposal that the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Health should have fulfilled his direct duties, took the floor and explained to all Members of the Saeima and those present, both what the Ministry of Health and the Government have done on this issue. Undoubtedly, in the mass media, the Ministry of Health is telling us about the fact that, here, on the part of the government... Such support is intended for citizens, it says that citizens can submit claims for compensation for vaccine adverse reactions. But if coalition Members were to look more carefully at the orders and draft laws submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers at the time, then coalition Members would notice this mechanism set up by the government, as human beings, to compensate for possible treatment costs from vaccine adverse reactions. The mechanism is that, after the fact, i.e. after medical treatment, citizens must submit a claim to the institution of the Ministry of Health, which is entitled to examine that claim within a period of six months. And if that claim is complex, if it is not clear what is expressly not stated, which makes the claim complex, that body shall have the right to examine that claim within one year. Colleagues, imagine what are mainly people who might have these side effects. They are likely the elderly. What is the target audience we are trying to convince against vaccination? In the first, second and third rounds - these are risk groups, people in the age group, because out of 10 hospitalized hospitals, nine are in the age group over 50 years. So a large part, most of them are pensioners. And now, fellow Members, think about how a pensioner in our country, a pensioner or a pensioner who has experienced reactions from vaccines will be able to get medical help. State hospitals? Now there's availability and queues for pensioners... I think, so to speak, the stories about it are being put together. This could take them several months. In the current situation of overcrowded hospitals, perhaps even more. Can he, this pensioner, turn to private sector clinics or hospitals? It is clear that the answer is - is it hardly possible, because, although this pensioner may then, by fact, be eligible for compensation, but how, by what means, will this pensioner first be able to pay those medical costs? Do you offer, honourable colleagues in the Ministry of Health, to take the pensioner's quick credit and then wait for half a year, or even a year, while the institution of the Ministry of Health... under which authority will consider this application? We offer a quick and effective way, as with this insurance a pensioner can really be sure that he will receive such compensation that he will be paid for the treatment. This is a much more effective way to achieve the goal in a situation where...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U193	Mr. Dombrovskis, time. I closed the debate. Mr. Kozlovsky, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U194	On behalf of the Commission, I can only say that the Ministry of Welfare was heard, which pointed out that this proposal cannot be dealt with precisely in this draft law. So I just want to remind you once again that, after the discussions, the Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U195	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal tabled by Members Papule, Dombrovskis, Girgen and Pucken! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U196	2. - a proposal from Members Papule, Dombrovskis, Girgen and Pucken. And it is planned to establish that the object of the contributions from which minimum compulsory contributions are to be made is to be determined not less than the amount of the minimum monthly salary established by the Cabinet of Ministers. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U197	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U198	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Dear colleagues, First of all, I would like to introduce adjustments to what the rapporteur said about the previous, or even the previous, or some of the many proposals that we are talking about here that the representatives of the ministries have been heard about them. Or when it was mentioned... The Ministry of Welfare... Of course, I allow my memory to deceive me, but as far as I remember, we have not heard the views of the ministers responsible about many of the proposals. Ministers responsible for many of the proposals did not at all consider it necessary to attend, even to attend a meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission to answer Members' questions. I would therefore like to raise any questions here as to whether there has been any in-depth or full examination of these proposals by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. This has not happened. The budget and financial (tax) commission has been a major conveyor. Perhaps not as large a conveyor as a government where one proposal was perhaps devoted to a few seconds of total time, but yet no responsible ministries in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission were consulted on these proposals rarely - with few! - exceptions, and no debate has taken place on a large scale within the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. As we see, no debate is taking place today. I ask the chair of the sitting to bring together the times of the debate on this proposal, if possible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U199	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U200	Thank you. Colleagues, this is a speech... in this proposal on whether to abolish the so-called Reira tax reform... Well, in fact, the symbol, namely that one year ago this Saeima adopted, in my opinion, a shameful amendment to the law, to require people who are partly employed to pay social security contributions from the minimum wage. Although, at least in words, the authors of this initiative declared noble goals a year ago, namely to protect everyone, to protect social security, so that everyone would be paid social security contributions at least to the minimum, unfortunately, this change, the authors of these initiatives either did not see or did not want to see their full picture, all the consequences of their initiative. In other words, they did not want to or could not see that many of those who receive less than the minimum wage actually work less than full - time. It is possible that in this way work is very far from the average official of the Ministry of Finance, it is very far from the parliament politician. Perhaps the officials and politicians do not work so long to see, for example, who comes, I am sure to both the Ministry of Finance and the Saeima to do their job. Caregivers usually do not work full - time. This is the case in many other professions where people do not work full - time. But the Ministry of Finance and you, colleagues from the ruling coalition, have made a requirement for their employer to pay social security contributions from the minimum wage for them. Here we see a philosophy in the Ministry of Finance, whose essence probably is that the Ministry of Finance believes that every businessman is almost a thief, who in principle has as much money as a state. As much as has never been, and he, an entrepreneur, has no problem paying his employees virtually any social security contributions for them to pay any taxes. And as the only businessman ever cheats the state and the Ministry of Finance and the State Revenue Service without paying its social security contributions. But the point is, unfortunately, that by making such a claim, because many entrepreneurs cannot pay such taxes, these people will simply be laid off. For example, data from the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry survey show that for the first time, many members employ such persons. And that almost a quarter of the companies surveyed by the LTRK are planning to dismiss these employees. How many people are we talking about here? The data collected by the State Revenue Service shows that we are talking about almost 180 thousand people, employees who do not work full time. So, after the Ministry of Finance... and here we are mainly talking about companies that will be most affected, and these are those who work in the regions. We are talking about people, such as the same ones who are already the poorest part of society. You, colleagues from the ruling coalition, actually create the conditions for it with your decisions to throw these people out of the street to get them out of work. I call for this decision to be reviewed and supported by the removal of the absurd requirement.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U201	The debate is closed. Mr. Kozlovsky, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U202	On behalf of the Commission, I would remind you that this proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U203	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal tabled by Members Papule, Dombrovskis, Girgen and Pucken! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U204	3. - Member Tatar's proposal. In fact, it consists of two parts, the first part deals with the fact that the question on which these premiums are paid... it is therefore determined on the basis of a contract of employment, contrary to the previous version, which included the term ‘workers’. The other is that the employer is not obliged to pay a contribution for the period during which the employed person has not fulfilled his employment duties on the basis of the employment contract without valid reason. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U205	We launched a debate on the proposal. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U206	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Thank you to a commission member who, indeed, on behalf of the commission, at least said precisely what the proposal was about. And I draw attention, among other things, to the fact that this proposal, as I mentioned at the committee meeting, is not my own. This proposal has been developed by the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Just like proposals 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8. Perhaps you have repeatedly noticed and also heard the call of the largest business organisation in Latvia to correct the error made by this Saeima just between several comma waves at the very moment of the pandemic - the entrepreneurs at a very difficult time when many small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are drawing ends together, but the country came with these minimum social contributions. The substance of these proposals is indeed, as Mr Kozlovska said, that the employer is not obliged to pay contributions for the period during which the employee has not performed his duties on the basis of a contract of employment without valid reason. If we recruit a person for a full, very short, few hours, we have to make a certain contribution for him if he has no other job. And it does not encourage the recruitment of this person, it does not encourage some other solutions. This encourages, as the debate has already said, the release of these workers from work. And exactly... they are almost 180,000 people in Latvia, to whom this norm was literally applied. Very many people have already lost their jobs, many have left, others are trying, as you can, to pull the ends now and waiting for the moment when perhaps the economy could also open up and find an alternative job. But many of these workers are likely to have left the so - called grey or totally black shadow economy without paying any taxes at all. Is that good for the country? No, it's not good. Does it make life easier for entrepreneurs? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. On the contrary, it gets worse, many honest entrepreneurs are not ready to sign up to it. And as a result, we suffer, the entire budget suffers, the employer suffers, the workers suffer and no members of society actually obtain. Indeed, colleagues, if we look at these proposals... Therefore, it was quite painful even to listen to the reviews from a particular committee meeting, where representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Latvia are heard briefly, but in principle, as a voting machine, these concrete proposals are being debated. And it was even more painful to hear if we were talking about concrete proposals that have been... Also specifically the norms of this law and, among other things, the budget revenue section, where the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry has not even been invited as a normal partner to clarify. Let us say, as the largest business (taxpayer) organisation in Latvia, do you see whether these revenue forecasts in the budget are accurate? In practice, we leave these people completely on their own... as they say, in the power of fate. At the same time, the government borrows money, and we know that it is already approaching the limit of 17 billion, the external debt of which it will have to be repaid. Someone has to work to make these taxes... to earn this money so that the economy moves, so that the budget has the funds to give back, but here we are turning the backs of the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the largest business association, systematically. That's not right, colleagues. I call for support for the specific proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U207	The name of Member Evita Hall-Gross.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U208	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I do not remember, perhaps Mr Tatar was not present, so I simply informed you that there was a debate and there was information from the Ministry of Welfare about this proposal. The draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance”” which will be directed to the Cabinet of Ministers, establishing that the minimum object is not calculated for the days when the employee is absent due to the employee’s fault, as well as for the calendar days in which the worker is suspended from work, and it is provided that the employer will be able to submit the above information for the period from 1 July of this year until the entry into force of this draft law. So, yes, there was a specific debate on this particular proposal and also information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U209	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U210	Dear President, Dear colleagues, I have to apologize to Evita Hallie-Gross here. Indeed, on the side of the Ministry of Welfare, she took part in the debate as Parliamentary Secretary at the meetings of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes) and tried to answer, as far as she could, questions concerning the Ministry of Welfare's competences and not just questions. Not so many officials in the relevant ministry... This is certainly an example for other ministers. Mrs Grass, you are the second parliamentary secretary in this budget debate who has taken the floor. So we can now record the history of the fact that the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture is usually not embarrassed and is ready to answer the debate in the Saeima on the issues that concern the Ministry of Culture. And from the Ministry of Welfare you are now the second. Although this specific proposal directly affects the field of the Ministry of Finance, I think more directly than the Ministry of Welfare, I would remind you that the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry will collect this particular initiative, require minimum social insurance contributions from people who work less than full time and receive less than the minimum wage, the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry qualified it as a brother, and, by the way, the President of Latvia Egils Levits has pointed out. And as far as I know, the Ministry of Finance has a working group under the leadership of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. And it is Mr Zakatistova who should do his job right now, fulfil his direct responsibilities and explain to us what is then going on in the review of this request. Mr Zakatistova, despite being a parliamentary secretary of the Ministry of Finance, has not seen us at all in this budget debate, by the way. But the ruling coalition has recently voted in favour of a substantial increase in remuneration by the Saeima to the parliamentary secretaries, including Mr Zakatistova, from the next 14th. At least from the point of view of this Saeima, it is absolutely unclear what. And now, with regard to what Mrs Zalytė-Gross said, what steps are being taken. It is, of course, good that the period during which an employee is absent and so on will not be taken into account, but it does not solve the basic problem. And its core problem is in fact two main points. The first point is that many companies that, however, were able to pay employees both wages and taxes... its difference is derived from its income from the sale of goods or services and from expenditure which includes remuneration. And due to the decisions of this government and the ruling coalition, not every company will probably be able to afford it as costs rise. The result will be the dismissal of these people. We are talking here specifically about those people who should even be one of the top priorities of the Ministry of Welfare. These are the poor people who will be made redundant by this government, because of this tax reform in Reira. That's one. Two. Even if these people are not made redundant - at least those who will not be laid off - they will pay more tax per cent of their income than people like you, honourable Members, like ministers and governments, you have actually introduced a regressive tax. And in a situation where you have just decided whether to grant generous representation expenses to ministers and government... Now this looks very interesting, colleagues. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U211	I closed the debate. Mr. Kozlovsky, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U212	Yeah. Both representatives of the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Employers' Confederation of Latvia were present at the discussion, and the Ministry of Welfare was well represented. And the Commission did not support this proposal at the hearing.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U213	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Member Edgara Tatar's proposal! Please vote mode! - 30, 51, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U214	4. - Member Tatar's proposal. It also provides for the addition of persons who are not covered by minimum contributions. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U215	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U216	Thank you. Yes, colleagues, this proposal provides for... The proposal prepared by the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which I have submitted, provides for a further addition to the legal norms to which these minimum social contributions would not really be eligible (the sound defect.) ... promote both employment and a certain increase in social welfare. And in this part we are talking about people, not just those who have reached retirement age, including early retirement, we are talking about people as well... for persons of pre-retirement age who have not yet reached the age required for the award of an old-age pension for a period of not more than five years. I think you have heard a lot of really relevant stories that a person before retirement can't find a job for a long time. He can't find any work. If there is such a norm at the moment, then the employer, whatever he is often socially responsible, is looking at the norms of his Commercial Law, not those of a non-governmental organisation dealing with social assistance. His duty is to actually promote that the company works - works with profit and works effectively. And in this case, in order for him to have some incentive to recruit prematurely... rather than premature, but pre-retirement and employment, because situations may occur (we know there are), that there are people in pre-retirement age, but they cannot find a job and as a result remain without any income. He has not yet retired, he can also systematically find a job. In this case, too, the employer understands that it may be economically disadvantageous for him - even for a short period of time - to employ him, to work legally for a small worker, by registering in the country, by paying his taxes. There is therefore a specific proposal. Just as I ask you to supplement the norms not only with Group I and II, but also with Group III disability, as well as with persons whose spouse or the second child's parent's salary book has a registered child under three years of age. If we are talking about support for families who are left without income or are very low and do not qualify for social benefits... Also for persons of their own spouse... the nature of the proposal is - whether the second child's parental salary is recorded in the tax book by three or more children under the age of 18. Similarly, a person whose spouse or parent's wage book records a minor child who is recognised as a disabled person in accordance with the laws and regulations. Therefore, colleagues, I think that this proposal would really benefit very many people with low incomes at this point. Not all these workers are capable of paying their high wages, and not everyone can, and not everyone is doing it, but people need work. We decided, with a light hand, on 20 per cent premiums, including representation allowances, for huge increases in wages. But here we are talking about being able to employ pre-retirement pensioners and people with Group III disabilities, and so on, who would not be subject to this norm, which almost absolutely majority of Latvian employers object. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U217	I closed the debate. Mr. Kozlovsky, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U218	The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U219	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Member Edgara Tatar's proposal! Please vote mode! - 29, 50, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U220	5. - Also the motion from Member Tatar. Provision shall be made for a person on leave without wage retention... they are not covered by a minimum contribution. This proposal was also not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U221	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U222	Yes, colleagues! This is also one small, technical and interpretative proposal from the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which is absolutely logical... It seems absolutely obvious that no social contribution is paid for the period during which the employed worker is on leave without pay. Therefore, colleagues, in order not to lay off these workers, which, among other things, many entrepreneurs have already begun to do, are indeed calling for this particular proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U223	I closed the debate. For the Commission, Mr Kozlovsky... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U224	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U225	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Member Edgara Tatar's proposal! Please vote mode! - 31, 50, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U226	6. - Member Tatar's proposal. The nature of the proposal is to reduce the time limit to one month during which the State Social Insurance Agency calculates minimum compulsory contributions. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U227	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U228	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues! We understand that there are many business organisations. Take this situation, no matter how drastic it is for our society... At the same time, however, we are talking about technical proposals which provide for an accelerated operation on the national side, moving a little faster. Currently, the law states that the State Social Insurance Agency must calculate these minimum contributions, which must be additionally paid by the employer, within three months of the end of the quarter, but the proposal provides that as soon as possible, but not later than within one month. Colleagues, this is indeed a technical proposal that comes a little bit against the country, moving a little faster to provide employers with the information they need. Please support the specific proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U229	I closed the debate. Mr. Kozlovsky, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U230	On behalf of the Commission, there is only a small comment. We also heard clarification from the Ministry of Welfare about this proposal. It was pointed out that these minimum contributions were paid for self-employed representatives of micro-enterprises and therefore there was also the problem that they were constantly specified and that therefore such a time limit is unfortunately not realistic at this point in time. The Commission was therefore not in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U231	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Member Edgara Tatar's proposal! Please vote mode! It's not about - 32, it's against - 50, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U232	7. - Member Tatar's proposal. Provides an obligation for the State Revenue Service to inform the employer of the calculated minimum contributions to a particular employee of the enterprise. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U233	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U234	Yeah, thank you. Just like in the previous proposal, entrepreneurs are asking... Considering also the accounting burden, requires a little more from the government... details... In particular, it is about the information that the State Revenue Service has to provide to the employer - about the calculated minimum contributions. So - the request to actually also inform the company's particular employees, precisely about each employee - what the company is asking for. And really, it's not a budget-intensive job! More adequate involvement of the State Revenue Service would also be necessary... and greater understanding of the involvement of employers. Please support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U235	Name of Member Evita Hall-Gross.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U236	Yeah, thank you. We're in one and... At the same meeting we talked about the fact that there is already an agreement between SRS and SSAA that the State Revenue Service will provide the employer with a personalised list. We talked about this in this particular committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U237	The debate is closed. Mr. Kozlovsky, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U238	On behalf of the Commission, I can only remind you that the Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U239	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Member Edgara Tatar's proposal! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U240	8 / 8 - Member Tatar's proposal. It is intended to replace the term "worker" by the term "worker hired on the basis of a contract of employment". In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U241	Members have requested a vote on this proposal. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - Member Edgara Tatar's proposal! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U242	9. - the proposal by Members Svekova and Stepanenko. A number of future proposals actually provide for the entry into force of the proposal, and this specific proposal provides for one year. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U243	We launched a debate on the proposal. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U244	Colleagues! As Mr Kozlovsky rightly pointed out, this proposal and the other proposals, the following, until the 21st proposal, are interrelated. In particular, they relate to the fact that I asked to postpone the entry into force of the mandatory... social contributions for the implementation of the payment... Accordingly, in Latvia several categories... the self-employed, micro-enterprises, holders of royalties or part-time employees. I will not speak for each of these proposals, but I will ask for a vote and support for the following reasons. Cooperation partners - both the Employers' Confederation of Latvia and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Latvia - expressed their positive attitude to the introduction of the idea as such - for mandatory social contributions, but pointed out that the object of the contribution... should definitely be introduced gradually, using a reduced approach, or start with a small payment, and then provide for the introduction of a higher and corresponding minimum payment of EUR 170. Why was such a proposal made? Because, in fact, we have a very large number of people employed with low wages, that is to say, wages below the minimum wage. It must also be understood that part of the employees are working... perhaps only part-time work, such as interpreters, cares for some auxiliary workers; mothers who may be on parental leave and work for a few hours. The system that has been in place, by its very nature, makes employment very disadvantaged, such as part-time employment. Of course, the employer will release employees such as a student or, for example, a young mother. But we know that at the moment, some students... Those who were partly employed were able to learn and work in hospitality or restaurants. In the context of the pandemic and the restrictions imposed by the country, their income prospects have decreased significantly. They stood in front of a very serious choice - either to learn or not to learn and go to work. Working on half-time - they no longer have this opportunity. All this has caused a very significant deterioration in the financial situation and wealth of families as well as in this type of population. Of course, the issue of social security is important and important, but such regulation needs to be introduced at the right time and at the right time. And it must affect those categories that it will not do. At the moment, it is evident that this is, by its very nature, damaging. This undermines income levels for the population and does not allow partial employment to be maintained for the sensitive category. The fact that this draft law - a brother - is also indicated by the fact that the Ministry of Welfare has repeatedly presented appropriate supplements and amendments to this draft law. We see that the conditions for compulsory social contributions to agricultural workers, beneficiaries of royalties, have already been amended. And these conditions were amended and softened in favour of these categories. We can see that there is still no solution to the issue of micro-enterprises who have access to an economic activity account. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. In other words, there are a number of technical issues, a number of details and problems that have not been resolved. And put... and to continue with this reform is currently simply inhumane. That is why I ask my colleagues to support this proposal, as well as the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U245	I closed the debate. Mr. Kozlovsky, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U246	The Commission did not support this extension.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U247	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - the proposal tabled by Member Svekova and Member Stepanenko! Please vote mode! There's no one for - 23, against - 53, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U248	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Members Svekova and Stepanenko. As Mrs Švekova has already said, this too is about moving the deadline for one year. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U249	Members have requested a vote on proposal 10. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - the proposal tabled by Member Lubova Svekova and Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U250	11. - the proposal by Members Svekova and Stepanenko. This is also due to a one-year extension. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U251	Members agree. Is the vote requested? Please press the button on the request for vote in good time until the rapporteur reports. So let's vote in favour of 11. - the proposal tabled by Member Svekova and Member Stepanenko! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U252	12. - the proposal by Members Svekova and Stepanenko. Provision shall be made for an extension of the time limit. The Commission did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U253	Members have requested a vote on this proposal. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - the proposal tabled by Member Lubova Svekova and Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U254	13. - the proposal by Members Švecova and Stepanenko for the transposition of the entry into force. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U255	The vote on 13 has been requested. - the proposal submitted by Member Lubova Švekova and Member Jūlia Stepanenko. Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! - 30, 52, abstaining. - No. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U256	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Members Svekova and Stepanenko. This also concerns the transposition of the entry into force. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U257	The vote on this proposal has been requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - the proposal tabled by Member Lubova Svekova and Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U258	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Members Svekova and Stepanenko. It also provides for the transposition of the entry into force. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U259	Members have requested a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 15. - the proposal tabled by Member Lubova Svekova and Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U260	16. - the proposal by Members Svekova and Stepanenko. This also means that the deadline should be postponed. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U261	The vote has been requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - the proposal tabled by Member Lubova Svekova and Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! - 31, 52, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U262	17. - the proposal by Members Svekova and Stepanenko. This is also due to the relocation of the deadline. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U263	The vote has been requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - the proposal tabled by Member Lubova Svekova and Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! - 30, 53, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U264	18. - the proposal by Members Svecova and Stepanenko on the reassignment of the term. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U265	The vote has been requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. - the proposal tabled by Member Lubova Svekova and Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U266	19. - the proposal by Members Svekova and Stepanenko. This is also due to the relocation of the deadline. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U267	Members have requested a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - the proposal tabled by Member Lubova Svekova and Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! - 30, 53, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U268	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Members Svekova and Stepanenko. This is also due to the relocation of the deadline. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U269	Members have requested a vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 20. - the proposal tabled by Member Lubova Svekova and Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U270	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Members Svekova and Stepanenko. This is also due to the deadline. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U271	As the Legal Bureau points out, the proposal cannot be put to the vote because it relates to the unsupported proposal 20, but is to be debated. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U272	Closing this debate on amendments to the national social insurance law... and, in connection with the introduction of compulsory social security payments, I would like to express an aspect that describes the overall tax system and the tax burden, as well as the treatment of taxpayers. Any taxpayer will be willing to pay taxes if they are understandable to him, if they are discussed, explained and if the taxpayer understands the need to change the regulation. It can be seen from the public environment - from discussions as well as from the findings - that taxpayers are unaware of what politicians have introduced... the introduction of a mandatory payment and is in a very difficult situation because it is forced to make a choice - either to comply with all the requirements or to try to optimise their operations accordingly - to try to switch to the shadow economy. It should be stressed that experts, experts point to the fact that there is a very high risk that the shadow economy is likely to increase in the next year and next year, with “”the”” just these amendments. This shows that politicians are actually leading to an increase in the proportion of the shadow economy, stimulating the expansion of its phenomenon - unfortunately encouraging action on the part of taxpayers on the part of the shadow economy. It is very sad to see that the only way to motivate taxes... the ruling political elite chooses penalties, sanctions, continuous control, but does not choose explanation and understandable, clear and gradual increase of tax burdens. And also, the lack of consistency in communication or in amendments to the relevant norms - neither does it increase public confidence in government, politicians, public administration. And unfortunately... If we increase the tax burden, but then we spend taxpayers' money on ensuring an increase in wages for those working in the public administration, then it is dubious to expect moral support from taxpayers for the changes that have been introduced. I am very sorry that this was the path chosen 13. Members of the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U273	I closed the debate. As I said earlier, the 21st proposal cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U274	22. - Member Tatar's proposal to postpone the entry into force of the law by one year. The Commission did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U275	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U276	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, This proposal provides for these social contributions to be carried forward by one year, as Mr Kozlovsky rightly said. I understand that a number of previous opposition proposals are not supported, but I call for understanding of the issue that we are trying to address. It is a very large group of entrepreneurs - it is hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs who are now... hundreds of thousands of workers who are currently in a rather difficult situation. That is, the problem with these 180,000 people to whom this provision applies is that... Well, one thing is that... All right, we assume that there are some entrepreneurs and some workers who have complied with the rules in force in good faith and who are currently making these mandatory social contributions. But as much of that... I would say that they will be tens of thousands of people who will receive the State Revenue Service premium for their unpaid minimum social contributions in the first weeks of December. The Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry has warned about this. A number of entrepreneurs have warned about this. And there's even a website that calls it very simple – “Corrigendum”. And there we can get to know the description of this situation - about the fact that a decision was taken that was not discussed with the business community, but was simply imposed on the business community. This will, of course, affect the development prospects of these businesses and their competitiveness. I think it will also have an impact that we will see in our country an increase in the proportion of the shadow economy. However, this can be avoided - it can be corrected. My fellow Member Edgars Tavars prepared this proposal together with the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the largest business organisation in Latvia. Experts from the camera have participated in the drafting of this proposal. This proposal is supported by a whole range of non-governmental organisations - various associations, business organisations, which are mainly located in the regions (I have been calling them for some time in the past). The biggest victims will be small entrepreneurs in the regions - for various reasons... Maybe he doesn't have a website, maybe he doesn't know yet to apply for these... To get... in some way compete with Rimi, Maxima or... no matter which sites... with those who can offer their services, who are much stronger in this, remote, business than some small businessman who may have one... whether he is self-employed. They can earn these 100-200 euros, they have to sell the products for these 100-200 euros so that they can earn them. We have now ignored this small business law. We're... at the time when they are most difficult and the time of crisis for them - I think especially for them! - is difficult, we don't help them in some way, but... We just give them a brick and we say: it's your social insurance, now you're even more protected. Now they also show their attitude. A series ignores these calls for payment. After that there will be reminders of the State Revenue Service, forced mechanisms. And all this chain will in no way contribute to any mutually respectful dialogue between businessmen and the state; on the contrary, it will undermine it and lead to even greater distrust for the government, for the government as a whole. Well, then... How can we hope that these entrepreneurs will come to the country at a time when the country will invite them to engage in some national processes, such as vaccination? We see that the citizens' attitude is quite negative. I call for support for this proposal, which is in place and in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U277	I closed the debate. Mr. Kozlovsky, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U278	The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U279	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 22. - Member Edgara Tatar's proposal! Please vote mode! - 30, 52, abstaining. - No. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U280	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Tatar's proposal. It provides that until 1 July 2023 the object of the minimum social contribution shall be one half of the amount provided for in Section 20.4 (2) of the Law. At the meeting of the Commission, the Legal Bureau took the view that this proposal should not be put to the vote because it was not properly prepared, but that, at the request of Member Tatars, the Commission voted and did not support the proposal in its vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U281	Dear colleagues, It's time for a break. Let us start the debate on this proposal after a break. I would like to inform you that the sitting will be suspended for 15 minutes, i.e. by 1.15 p.m., when we get back to work. Only the registration of Members. It's been a success. So it's a break until 3:15 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U282	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. See further draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. See proposal 23 below. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U283	Good evening, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Continuing the debate on minimum social contributions, I would like to point out - my colleague also said this - that the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry carried out a survey among its members on whether politicians had to postpone the date of entry into force of the minimum national social security contribution system, and 87.29 respondents replied that they had to be moved. Like the 22nd proposal, which was not supported, the 23rd proposal provides, in essence, for the coming of politicians... if we are talking about the nature of the proposal... The transitional provisions provide that until 1 July 2023 the subject of minimum social contributions shall be one half of the amount provided for in Section 20.4 (2) of the Law. Well, step to step... Unfortunately, this proposal was not supported by the Commission, despite the fact that the largest, absolutely larger, paying agencies in the Latvian state budget - employers - have called for a general review of this social contribution... but with our campaign, which we wrote about... were written in newspapers, reported on radio and television, e-mails were written, invited... An absolute problem! The feeling that they really should also be heard by members of the coalition. Colleagues! This is a sufficiently important step that we have been able to take - with this corrigendum, towards our employers, the taxpayers, so that, at least in part, this error is corrected in one of the parts relating to the minimum social contributions. Despite that... I can regret that we can't hear or we don't want to hear or... What's more serious about our country... in relation to all, as I said, the external debts of the State and other matters... It will have to be returned, it will have to be paid for, and we may be going back to tax reform, perhaps more harsh decisions than it is at present. Therefore, my fellow Members, unfortunately, yes, this proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U284	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U285	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I also call on me to support this proposal, however, which has been prepared by my colleague Edgars Tavars in cooperation with the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. This is a call - at some point, at least at the last moment, to listen... listen to the voice of reason and understand that these entrepreneurs are simply the mass of income that is now... It's because of the community... and from the very beginning of the Commision... That crisis is not over, maybe someone is over, but it is a very small number of entrepreneurs; most... These amendments concern... Overall, this system covers 180 000 people. And, as the Group of the Greens/Agricultural Union mentioned at the outset, in its submission of this budget, the minimum social contributions... There can be no minimal solutions for any one narrow interest group that has somehow succeeded... have been able to prevent them from applying these rules directly and to such an extent. However, there are a number of entrepreneurs, honest entrepreneurs, who are intolerant to this burden. And at such a burden, they already have no other options. If they make this choice - to pay taxes or to buy bread - they will buy bread; they will not pay any other bill. But here's a story about how our entrepreneurs can survive at all. With such a policy, we strike these entrepreneurs either in the shadow economy or away from the country. At a time of crisis, when these entrepreneurs are having the most difficult survival conditions, we start bringing them up and saying: they are not socially well insured; when they have problems, others have to pay for them. Such texts can now be heard. All together we have to save airBaltic and get in touch with some other companies... Well, colleagues, at hundreds of millions who then go... We saw that tens of millions were given to state-owned companies without any business plan, without any vision at all. No one was able to answer these questions in the Commission. It created a strange situation... strange feeling that money is given because they asked, because they need it. These entrepreneurs who were denied their jobs and... Only when they were prevented from working, law prevented them from working, law prevented them from operating in the sector - only at that time they came to the country, demanded some kind of assistance, and even then - not everyone; much tried to find other solutions. And still, right now, these benefits... all apply for these benefits. There are a number of entrepreneurs who don't come for this help, but continue to do something, fight, try to survive, but they are told by the state: listen, you don't pay all those taxes; it's nothing that you work there in small business, you're... Small businessman, even a big businessman who ensures... Some students or seniors are given some kind of work, a chance to earn, that is, these people are doing a good thing. But it is said: no, you have to pay! The choices are that these people are just fired... Dismisses. That is the reality. And there are also those who participate in the social campaign. Imagine, well, let's not let go, let's pay. But, of course, there are few such cases. Very much on this Christmas... Colleagues, once again and again, this Christmas will be subject to a premium. The largest business organisation in Latvia has warned about this. Nobody has even tried to disprove it and say that it will not. And what are we doing? At the moment when these people double their heat bill, they double their electricity bill; in addition to all this, they will also receive a Christmas “gift” from the State Revenue Service: to exceed the amount of euro, please pay taxes! Block the accounts and so on. Now the “fine” Christmas will be for entrepreneurs! If there were ten or a hundred entrepreneurs, it would already be a tragedy, but what will we do if there were thousands? Likely thousands could be like this. There is no indication that this may not be the case. This proposal provides for at least... the proposal of the last minute provides for at least a partial suspension of this duty by at least half. Colleagues, I therefore call for support for this proposal tabled by Member Edgars Tavars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U286	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U287	The Commission did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U288	Please call me! We will vote in favour 23. - Member Tatar's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U289	Colleagues, we have examined all the proposals. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U290	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance” at second, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Competition Law”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Ilze Indricksone.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U291	Hello, colleagues! Dear President, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined and prepared for second reading the draft law “Amendments to the Competition Law”, which is also urgent. The aim of the draft law is to strengthen the capacity of the Competition Council as a decision-making body, as well as to review the application procedure, making it clearer and more effective. Three proposals have been received for the second reading, all in editorial form. 1. - The legal bureau's proposal, which is editorial. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U292	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U293	2. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which shall specify in advance, at first reading, the approved version of the provision in question. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U294	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U295	And 3. - a proposal from the Legal Office specifying the transitional provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U296	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U297	The Commission has generally supported the draft law and I call on you to support it at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U298	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on "Amendments to the Competition Law" at second, final, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Cielēns.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U299	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima and honourable colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined and prepared for consideration at the Seimas sitting at second reading the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance””. In order to reduce employers’ labour costs, as one of the support mechanisms for employers, it is intended to relieve them of the burden of paying employees’ sick leave by making the sick leave pay by the State from day 10 of incapacity for work. Six proposals were received for the second reading. 1. - Member Tatar's proposal. A recipient of a parental benefit who is employed and not on parental leave or earns income as a self-employed person while caring for a child shall pay an allowance of 80 per cent. This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U300	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U301	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, If we are talking about a particular proposal, this proposal has been developed together with the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, with their members, especially by interviewing small and medium-sized employers - with whom they are facing problems. And, among other things, one of the things we often talk about is that we lack staff. We often talk about the fact that we need people to be brought back to social life, to communication, to work life, but there are examples of situations where the parent is on parental leave, but if he does just one small job, then he only receives this allowance of 30 per cent. The Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry asks for payment of this allowance in the amount of 80 per cent. We are not talking about an allowance of 100 per cent that will continue to pay it under the condition that a parent on parental leave finds an opportunity, however, to do work either remotely or in any other way, in coordination with the employer, thus contributing to the growth of our economy, further stimulating both our gross domestic product and the budget revenue as a whole. This is about an increase from 30 to 80 percent so that a person can return to work as quickly as possible. This would even be a more cost-effective option for the country, because often these workers choose not to go or do any work to receive 100 per cent of parental leave, national compensation from the social budget, so that the substance of this proposal is even positive, fiscally positive, and there is also a positive attitude towards our employers who find an opportunity. In this case, there is also an additional motivation for the worker to have the opportunity to spend time, especially when parental leave is approaching the end of the leave and there is the possibility of carrying out some or all of the work away, for example for accountants, for the very many and diverse professions to which this provision applies. Therefore, colleagues, I ask you, too, on behalf of colleagues from the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry who have prepared this proposal, to really support it so that parents, young parents, at least have the opportunity, a financial incentive to start to return to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U302	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U303	Colleagues! I, too, would like to call on you to support this proposal. As Mr Tatar has already mentioned, it is prepared together with Latvia's largest business organisation - the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry - and, in essence, envisages that it could directly facilitate people's return to work when they are on parental leave. At the same time, the current system... I, too, have been talking about this issue during my regional visits to business, and I have been told that this system, which is now, even if there are some works that could be done in theory by older parents on parental leave... it would, however, be an opportunity to attract them in some way, but the existing arrangements do not absolutely motivate them to do so, but, on the contrary, they create obstacles. So even a little bit of time to prepare for some way to get back to work, perhaps with a very short time... But in this case, this system works in such a way that from call to call. And that's it. As soon as you start moving, this benefit is at once very much reduced, and I think it is not right. Economic operators also consider this to be wrong. Economic operators therefore come with such a proposal. Colleagues, I call on you to support this proposal made by Mr Tatar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U304	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U305	In the Commission, this proposal is not supported and I therefore call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U306	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Tatar's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U307	2. - Member Edgar Tatar's proposal. The proposal proposes to reduce the number of days of incapacity for work paid by employers. This proposal was not supported by the Commission either.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U308	Members want to have a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U309	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Taking into account all the previous proposals actually made by the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which have not received support in this budget, this is a rather gentle and, as you say, modest proposal that the country could achieve some step towards employers, at least in any segment, if we are talking about sick leave and this time, which must be paid to the employer... where the country could be reached, also taking into account the current situation with sick sheets, disability pages, in our country due to well-known circumstances and from which the employer is not directly protected, although perhaps it has provided people with compulsory health care, their well-being, social insurance and a wide range of different aspects that employers provide to their workers, their employees, so that their workplace is adequate and that they feel comfortable and socially fit for their collective and good health. But there are situations like at present, when the number of sick leave is actually increasing. Among other things, this is not only due to communion conditions, including people who have fully vaccinated and who work, but who have been kept in the room for a long time, have immune problems, objective people have health problems. Therefore, colleagues, in this difficult time, entrepreneurs are asking for a real change, a little change - for a few days - of the deadline for working incapacity sheets. Please support the specific proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U310	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U311	The proposal was not supported by the Commission. I therefore call on the Commission to vote against.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U312	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Tatar's proposal! Please, let's vote! 26, 50, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U313	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported and included 5. - The Cabinet's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U314	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U315	4. - the proposal of welfare minister Gata Eglišs. The proposal proposes to change the date of entry into force of the draft law. In the Commission, the proposal has been supported and included 5. - The Cabinet's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U316	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U317	5. - The Cabinet's proposal. To state point 54 of the transitional provisions in the following wording: ‘Amendments to the first paragraph of Article 13, the second paragraph of Article 16 and the first paragraph of Article 36 of this Law concerning the granting and payment of sickness benefit from the 10th day and the obligation for the employer to pay employees sickness benefit from his own means for a period not exceeding nine calendar days’. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U318	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U319	6. - the proposal of welfare minister Gata Eglišs. The law shall enter into force on 1 April 2022. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U320	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U321	All the proposals have been examined. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law amending the law on maternity and sickness insurance at second, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U322	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance” at second, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 75, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U323	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child” (No. 1110/Lp13). The second, final, reading commission has received eight proposals. This draft law has been declared urgent. 1. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal of the Group of the "Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK" supplementing, in editorial terms, the first sentence of the sixth paragraph of Article 26, with the following wording: "Assessing the contribution and increasing the prestige of society". This proposal is supported and included in 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U324	Members have asked for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal put forward by the Group for Homeland and Freedom/LNNK! Please, let's vote! About -63, against -3, refraining from -1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U325	2. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Linked to proposal 1. In fact, proposal 1 is editorially clarified. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U326	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U327	3. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau clarifying the wording as follows: "The Society Integration Fund shall ensure implementation of the state support programme "The Honorary Family Certificate Programme of Latvia". In fact, replaces the words... ‘encouraged national support programmes’... with the words ‘the Latvian Honorary Family Certificate Programme’. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U328	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U329	4. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which also clarifies in editorial terms, as in the previous proposal, by adding the words "honor family certificates". The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U330	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U331	5. - also a proposal from the Legal Office, which shall clarify it in editorial terms and the sixth paragraph of Article 26, shall be supplemented by the word ‘issue’ after the word ‘granting’. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U332	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U333	6. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau which is also editorial and fine-tuning in order to clarify the wording. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U334	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U335	7. - a proposal by the Legal Bureau to exclude the addition to Article 26 from the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh subparagraphs. So the Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U336	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U337	And 8. - lastly, the proposal by the Legal Office, which clarifies the transitional provisions with effect from the date of entry into force, as well as technical details. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U338	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U339	Thank you, colleagues, we have examined and supported all the proposals. I therefore call on the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child" to be endorsed at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U340	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child” at second, final, final, reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Land Books Act”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U341	Dear colleagues, We are working on the draft law on the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, ‘Amendments to the Land Books Act’. To the second, final, reading four proposals have been received. 1. - a proposal from the Legal Office providing for a editorial clarification of the sixth paragraph of Article 107. And the Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U342	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U343	2. - the proposal of the Group of the Greens/Family Union, which provides for the exemption of municipalities from the Registry fee in cases where, as a result of the merger or division of municipalities, the municipality newly formed makes fortification adjustments to the holder section. This proposal has been partly supported and included 3. - in the alternative proposal submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, effectively preserving the substance of this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U344	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U345	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Indeed, this is one of the three proposals so far, which have been supported at least in part by the Group of the Greens/farmers Union. So I will also give you a little bit about the substance of this proposal. This proposal therefore means, by its very nature, that the new municipalities were formed by means of administrative territorial reform and, when these newly created municipalities were created, of course, there are no longer, for example, Ozolnieki municipality, there is one large city of Jelgava, and then this nuance is changing. What the Latvian Municipal Union has drawn attention to us is that they should pay a fee for strengthening these changes in the Land Register. That wouldn't be normal. And it is a real pleasure that the government has listened to and accepted this and this proposal is at least partly supported, colleagues. Therefore, thank you, and I call for support for proposal 3, which is on the government's side, where this issue has been resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U346	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U347	On behalf of the Commission, as I have already said, this proposal has been partly supported and its substance has been confirmed in proposal 3, but since this proposal has been partly supported, I call for this proposal to be rejected and supported in proposal 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U348	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! For - 26, for - 48, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U349	3. - The Cabinet's proposal. With a similar nature, only editorially the idea is formulated more precisely. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission therefore supported proposal 3 and invited the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U350	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U351	On the other hand, 4. - The proposal from Members Budrik, Pouce and Znotiņš. And the aim of this proposal is to promote equal competition in the real estate investment market in the Baltic States, as well as to eliminate the disproportionate burden of public duties on real estate disposal transactions. And here we are preventing a situation where Latvia is directly less attractive, more unattractive than other countries in terms of real estate investment. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U352	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Uldis Budric.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U353	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, colleagues! Yes, in the Commission, this proposal was supported, and thank you. The proposal gives the task to the Cabinet of Ministers to set a ceiling of 50 thousand state fees. Such ceilings are set in Lithuania and Estonia, and that is why Latvia does not compete in the region for the development and implementation of large projects. This is one of the answers why when we enter Lithuania, Vilnius, for example, we see the construction of many projects. This proposal sets a ceiling of 50,000, which is a return to regulation which was abolished in 2018. However, by amending the Cabinet of Ministers regulations, I hope that the government will assess our competitiveness in the region and determine the competitive level of the maximum fee, not only by returning to the 2018 maximum rate. Overall, the recent reduction of the state fee to two percent and the support of this proposal will make Latvia really much more attractive for large investment projects. That's why I'm calling... I see that colleagues have requested a vote. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U354	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U355	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I believe that this proposal is, of course, acceptable if we can afford it. If we can afford to put it again, that is to say, the ceiling, because they have not been removed for nothing in 2018. Here we need to understand what we didn't hear from the applicants. One is - cool, we build competitiveness, we support big business. It should be open here, it is about big developers, and it would be good if this were the only reason why more apartments are being built in the Baltic States, more office buildings and different commercial areas are being built. The square meter is much more there than in Latvia. I think there are many other reasons why this is the case. And housing policy as such, too, in this budget, very little attention is paid to it. This proposal contributes in some way, but, as I have already mentioned, it would be good to hear some approximate estimates of how it could cost the public budget, because in 2018 such ceiling was removed, yes, it was removed. In some way, he thought how to increase budget revenue. Of course, today, circumstances have changed, and we are living in a borrowing age when no one is counting money anymore. We can afford to do everything, the most important thing is political will. Well, in this case, it would be worth understanding how much it costs to colleagues, so that it would not just put pressure on the buttons, but also realise how much such access to big business costs us and how effective it will be, just how such a proposal will enhance our international competitiveness in attracting real estate investors. Therefore, colleagues, I call at least on the applicants to try to explain a little more about their own proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U356	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U357	Yes, in the Commission, this proposal 4 was considered and supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U358	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Mr. Budrik, Mr. Pouce and Mr. Znotiņš's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 66, for - 2 and for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U359	We have therefore examined all the proposals for the draft law “Amendments to the Land Books Act” (No. 1192/Lp13). The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission of the Saeima has supported this in its second, final, reading and calls on the Saeima to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U360	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Land Books Act, second, final, final, reading! Please, let's vote! For - 70, for - no, for - 9. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Ilze Indricksone.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U361	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has prepared proposals for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax”. In total, 11 proposals were submitted. The amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax have presented a wide range of good things – exemptions from income tax for both the medical expenses paid by the employer and the conditions for the application of relief for transactions with agricultural land. The proposal is from Member Tatar. And it's going to replace the allowance for medical expenses with the allowance for transport costs... paid by the employer. The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U362	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U363	A little bit, I do not know, the time on behalf of the Commission should, however, be clarified, because this is not about replacement, this is about a supplement. And the question is about the essence of the proposal, which, among other things, has been developed together with the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry on the annual income... sources of taxable income for which a salary tax is payable and exclude the employer’s paid staff meal costs as defined in the collective agreement. And in this case, we are supplementing the fact that no tax is paid, since it was historical about catering or transport costs. And if we are talking about the amount that is currently laid down by law, namely EUR 480 per year, then the proposal is to increase this amount (of course under a collective agreement) to EUR 720 per year. Not EUR 40, as has been the case so far, but EUR 60 per month would be the new proposal. I think we all see every day, at least those who travel by private transport and not just, we see these costs as rising fuel prices, and so transport costs. This proposal, which actually complements not only catering but also transport costs, has long since been included in the budget, and consequently it is also included in the budget. This proposal also refers to transport costs in several places, complementing the article in question. Finally, paragraph 19 is the one which is proposed to be excluded: ‘The tax exemption provided for in paragraph 15 shall not apply where the employer is a State, a municipality, a public person or a public private capital company.’ Therefore, colleagues, also in support of our taxpayers - employers - call for transport costs to be added to the specific proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U364	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U365	On behalf of the Commission, however, I would like to make it clear that the first-reading version included additional catering expenditure. And Mr Tatar's proposal provided only for staff food or transport costs; the other supplements are those that Mr Tatar also named. And the Commission did not support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U366	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Tatar's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U367	2. - Member Tatar's proposal. Supplement the law with a new norm, which has been transferred to this law as an independent norm - exemption from income tax for expenses incurred by the employer for carrying out remote work in the amount of 60 euros. The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U368	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U369	Colleagues, Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry has developed a proposal on how, especially during a pandemic or in exceptional circumstances, when it is necessary to work remotely, and not only in exceptional circumstances, I think that the remote work will come much more into our daily life, as it was during the pre-pandemic phase. Accordingly, when working from home, people often pray that there are better conditions for them to be able to improve themselves, and this improvement is necessary for the performance of their duties. It is therefore normal for the employer to bear such costs relating to the distance from work by mentioning a specific, even very reasonable, margin not exceeding EUR 60 per month in this case. Therefore, please, colleagues, support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U370	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U371	The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U372	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Tatar's proposal! Please, let's vote! 27, 50, abstaining, not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U373	3. - The motion put forward by Member Tatar. The procedure for applying personal income tax allowance for expenses related to the carrying out of remote work is discussed. Linked to a proposal that was not previously supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U374	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U375	Colleagues, in my view, can also vote if the previous proposal is not supported. They were indeed conceptually jointly developed. The specific proposal lays down the conditions under which this allowance provided for in proposal 2 relating to teleworking and EUR 60 per month is valid and agreed upon. The nature of this proposal is that we can actually apply these conditions if certain conditions are met, such as the distance agreement or an employer's order, and it is stated what the employer is compensating for. This is also clearly stated in the work contract or in a specific agreement. And the second point of the specific proposal concerning the conditions under which the aid may be granted, is that the additional allowance not applicable to the worker, if the cost of carrying out the distance work is borne by the employer to which the staff member's salary tax book has been submitted. In other words, the substance of the proposal was as follows: if there is indeed a test on the part of the public authorities, all things should be correct and clear in advance, understandable and certain criteria for how a person would have received this support. In my view, this proposal, despite the fact that proposal 2 has not been supported... they are not mutually exclusive, so that I ask you to support proposal 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U376	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U377	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U378	Colleagues, in the opinion of the Legal Bureau, this proposal cannot be put to the vote. So we go on with 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U379	4. - The proposal presented by the Cabinet of Ministers, which extends the relief of personal income tax in the amount of 30 euros for expenses related to the carrying out of full-time remote works, also for 2022. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U380	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U381	5. - the proposal by the Minister of Culture, Nauras Puntulis, which provides for a year of relocation and extension of the possibility to pay personal income tax in the same way as currently for the beneficiaries of royalties. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U382	Let's start a debate. Name of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U383	Hello! Yes, the aim of the proposal of the Minister of Culture is indeed to extend until 31 December 2022 the period provided for in the transitional provisions of the Law on Personal Income Tax, within which holders of royalties have the opportunity not to register as economic operators, but taxes - both personal income tax and state social insurance contributions - are paid by the income payer in the amount of 25 per cent of income up to 25 per cent and 40 per cent of income exceeding 25 per cent. Such amendments are necessary because the obligation to register as an economic operator as from 2022, as well as the obligation to calculate and pay the taxes themselves, has created a significant administrative and financial burden for creative persons, but the introduction of settlement accounts for the planned economic activity, which would facilitate the payment of taxes, has been delayed and this service is still not available to taxpayers. Compared to the situation before the tax reform of royalties, the social security of the beneficiaries of royalties will be improved by implementing the solutions proposed in this and subsequent proposals of the Minister of Culture. This solution will not require additional administrative resources of the authors' income payers and the State Revenue Service, nor will it reduce current tax revenues, as it is planned to extend the current tax payment procedure to the beneficiaries of royalties. In the cultural sector, the proposal of Minister Naura Puntulis has received support. I call for support to be given to this and future proposals of the Minister for Culture in this draft law relating to this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U384	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U385	You see, colleagues, this is the case where the situation clearly appears - if you want to, then you can. You can find some solutions. Mr Janson rightly said that, therefore, economic operators in the field of culture, creative persons, have both financial and administrative barriers to introduction... join this new system and are therefore postponed. Of course, this must be postponed, but it is just one small part of the overall problem, the reform that we introduced, to be more accurate, you introduced, by already voting in favour of last year's budget, where we voted all this tax reform... and now it's very good to hear and see that some area of culture... I don't know why, maybe because they made some kind of action on the Dome Square, they were well-known, well-known people who got involved, maybe that's why they've been listened to some extent. But, colleagues, those thousands of people who are currently silent but against whom the tax reform introduced last year came into force in summer and will be reflected very precisely and specifically already in December this year... they will be very many thousands who may not have raised their voice as loud as the artists did. But what about them? They are in the same situation as these cultural workers. Thank you very much that at least part of the Ministry of Culture has listened in some way. Although not fully resolving this situation, even in part, there is no complete solution in this area and one that could be delighted with, but there has been some kind of approval, listening, in-depth. Colleagues! I call you not so arrogant and so... Well, it's hard for me to understand how it can come up, so uninterested to treat such a large part of Latvian population, taxpayers, who will be as difficult a period as those artists who made brick walls here and came to the Saeima. And the Union of Greens/Farmers also organised a rather broad picket here, called “Give back the spoon”, in the previous budget adoption, involving both cultural and various representatives of other fields. Fishermen... manicure specialists traveled from Valmiera, fishermen from Kolka came here in Riga and pointed out how wrong and wrong it was and that it would prevent them from working normally and would be like a loop in their neck. We didn't hear them, we heard them. At least. Okay, part, but that's not enough - it's not enough! - seeing how the state budget is lashed in political settings more than ever, how the budget is lashed out, without finding it any priority, without helping those who need to help the most in return. All that was necessary was that we just had to keep calm, let them work. Instead, we put them in their neck. Some of us out of this loop with these proposals now being drawn out, the others we forget. Colleagues! It's gonna be a huge blow. I would remind you again and again, and I would remind you again as much as possible. It will be a very large part of the population that you will come across - you will go through! - the shadow economy this December. And that will actually be the best thing that could happen. Worst - if you hit them away from Latvia to another country where they will not be treated. Thank you for this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U386	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U387	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues and colleagues! It is clear that this solution, which is offered as a support for creative people with a pump, is not a solution. The words of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture also sound strange unless you explain this to us, Mr Janson. Thus, a colossal sentence: “The introduction of a single account has been delayed.” That was the only thing that creative people expected to do. It was a solution that was supported by various types of entrepreneurs (i mean creative people). In a single sentence, you say outrageously: "The introduction of a single account has been delayed." It would be nice to explain why, in order for us to realise that this deferred deadline really needs to be supported. Why has the introduction of a single account been delayed? And the second sentence is that the industry supports such a decision. Tell me, what should the industry do at this point? The industry understands that it will be able to pay taxes over a certain period of time, understand how to do so and why, but the industry does not quite support what you say that the introduction of a single account has been delayed. Please tell me why, for what reasons or mystical reasons, has the introduction of this single account been delayed? At this point, you are not, essentially, a supporter of hypocrisy, but say that when there will be a solution that the cultural industry really expected and supported. We would welcome clarification and also deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U388	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U389	Yes, a small, very small promise that had to be made a long time ago, it is really good that the Minister for Culture, Mr Puntulis, presented this proposal... Minister of National Association. But, unfortunately, we have to say - but. We do not see here the proposals put forward by the Minister for Economic Affairs, as well as other areas, to extend the transitional provisions for other types of income, which, inter alia, really leave even more, much more significant impact on our economy, not only when there is a problem on the side of commercial banks - now it is the creation of a single account - but also on the basis of what people are physically able or unable to pay in the state budget at the moment. We will certainly support this particular proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U390	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U391	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to remind you that this proposal was supported and that the amount of taxes is not changed, but it is possible that the tax is withheld at the moment of payment and then in the annual report... The amount of tax due may be specified in the income statement. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U392	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - the cultural minister Puntulis' proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U393	6. - the proposal of the Minister of Culture, Naura Puntulis. Provision shall be made for the implementation of the previously supported proposal 5 and the withholding tax and for an annual income declaration. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U394	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U395	7. - also the proposal of the Minister of Culture, Naura Puntulis. Associated with the previous. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U396	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U397	8 / 8 - the proposal by the Minister of Culture, Nauras Puntulis, which clarifies the conditions for the proposal previously supported. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U398	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U399	9. - the proposal of the Minister of Culture, Naura Puntulis. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U400	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U401	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal by the Legal Bureau, which specifies the form of expression for the previously supported norm, shall replace the period of 24 months with a specific date. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U402	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U403	11. - the proposal of the Group of the Greens/Family Union, which provides for a faster increase in the non-eligible minimum for pensioners than in the version approved at first reading. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U404	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U405	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! So on Proposal No 10... Proposal No 11 Yeah, yeah, yeah... I think I have a different table.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U406	10. is a proposal from the Legal Office. 11. is a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U407	Yes, colleagues, this proposal is a deadline for the entry into force of an unlimited minimum of EUR 500. We propose that this deadline is not 1 July, but 1 January. In our view, this would be more correct, because this support, if we look, for example, at this beyond the threshold of EUR 500 (I remember there were political forces that promised to introduce it from 2019), is now foreseen from 1 July 2022. In our view, it should be faster. This money and those... This really is some way we can help citizens quickly to keep a little more money in their wallets, and I think very many citizens will only benefit from it. And the time of this entry into force... In our view, this should have happened in advance. We have also raised this issue in the previous budgets. Unfortunately, this was not supported. And now, in our view, 1 July of the state budget is too late; it should start with 1 January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U408	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U409	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! Why should this new dutyless minimum already actually be in force on 1 January? We see once again all these costs, which come literally as a chain with the rise in energy prices, we know how difficult it is for seniors to pay for electricity, for heat tariffs, we see how... and we also hear the new prices regularly reported by manufacturers, including the eleventh percentage point, that is, the two-digit percentage, which is the increase in primary goods and many other expenses, so that in fact all services are increasing... And the elder can buy much less than ever. And many - very many! - there will be justified and objective problems in paying for day-to-day utilities. We know that seniors are often the ones who make all payments in good time: they go to post on the day of retirement or through a bank... make such payments with the help of the bank, without delay in practice. But at a time when costs are significantly rising, we see what is happening in the capital and not only in the capital, in fact in all cities where district heating... most of these costs go up not only with global energy prices, but also, to some extent, with the cost of chips and not just... electricity bills. In fact, therefore, colleagues, the entry into force of this term will now really help people a lot, much, much more straight before this winter... and already in January, February, when there are the biggest bills, not literally a few months before the elections. Therefore, please support the specific proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U410	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U411	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, It is really a very good, interesting question, why those initiatives that are to increase the unlimited minimum, both for the general population... for pensioners, who in general, of course, are absolutely in favour of the initiatives, why all this does not come into force, just from 1 January of next year, which would be absolutely and absolutely normal. These possible explanations that this could be linked to the availability of funds - now it is very difficult to believe them, looking at how this coalition and the government are dealing with fiscal resources, looking at a budget deficit that is well above EUR one and a half billion (at least initially planned) and approaching almost EUR two billion. There remains only one option that all of this comes into force at the time when it is two months before the elections. Well, if the elections were not in October next year, but in March next year, then it would probably be... all this would come into force either on 1 January or on 1 February, which, as the previous colleagues have rightly pointed out, really very clearly shows that this is not a human being. If it were a human being, then all this would come into force on 1 January - when people will have to pay those bills for electricity, natural gas, heating. But that is not the case. All this seems very likely that the coalition thinks that in this way they will buy voters' votes before the elections, the same pensioner and... human. Does the coalition think that people will not remember how they should have paid for all their electricity, natural gas and heating bills without any support? Therefore, colleagues, I call on you to think about the people, not about the elections, and to support this proposal, 11th.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U412	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U413	Dear colleagues, This is really not a proposal with an idea... basically from a government presented with an idea of how to help citizens. It really is some kind of attempt to fulfill your pre-election promises. I'm sorry... Unfortunately, these cannot be pre-election promises anymore, because they simply do not exist anymore. The bid of the election was an inexpensive minimum of 500 euro from 2019. We are now at the end of 2021, this government proposal is due to end of 2022... present this solution, although we clearly understand that this inexpensive minimum of EUR 500 - that is already... It is quite simply natural to come. It has nothing to do with some sort of fulfillment. These people's costs, daily costs, income levels are not already on the ground, they are developing in some way. And it is now the time for the citizens to have a substantial increase in these bills that they will have. In this case, what we in the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union are proposing is that the citizens receive this support from 1 January so that, with this support, they can already start paying these bills, which will increase them, which will have to pay them, and other charges, so that it is starting to make life easier. Otherwise, from 1 July, it will be something else - it will be aid for debt, because then the debt will be incurred. Therefore, colleagues, I call for support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U414	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U415	Dear Speaker of the Saeima and dear colleagues! I am really a little surprised that someone thinks that in Latvia, in the history of Latvia, the biggest tax reduction in the area of labour taxation has come just naturally. That is not, of course, the case. At the same time, I have to say that there is democracy in Latvia and, as part of the democratic process, any initiative needs a number of things - not only to assess the fiscal impact of the initiative, but also to ensure that the majority is supported by a coalition in its decision-making power. This time I have to say thank you to the whole coalition, which has understood the need to raise the inequitable minimum, yes, including, given the burden on the expenditure currently incurred by a large part of the Latvian population, of course, that its coincidence in circumstances has also, to a certain extent, helped to reach this solution that, as of 1 January, the differentiated nonequitable minimum will be 350 euros, but as of 1 July, 500 euros, and the flat nonequitable minimum for pensioners will also be 350 euros, and as of 1 July, 500 euros. And it is important to note here that all of this in relation to the differentiated non-deductible minimum will also apply in the differentiation range between EUR 500 and EUR 1800, which was initially calculated on the basis of the fiscal calculation of the 3 × 500 plan... I must remind you that the dear opposition colleagues who are now in opposition said that it is unrealistic, impossible even when the upper limit of the range of differentiation was only EUR 1150, as in early 2018, for example, then now they are saying that it was needed more quickly and so on. Now, it will apply to all of us, up to €1,800. There's another thing to consider here. Thus, the personal income tax system provides for a breakdown of this revenue between the municipality and the State: 75 per cent for the municipality and 25 per cent for the State. And in this case we have to balance... In drawing up the budget, we must balance not only the central government budget, let us say, the big budget that we are currently approving, but we must foresee how the local authorities will absorb the potential shortfall in revenue in their individual budgets, as well as, by the way, the local authorities are currently active. And while the guarantees of this central government have been given to the municipalities, which will also cover potential losses from an increase in the non-equitable minimum, these aspects must be taken into account and ignored, I would say, to put it mildly, irresponsiblely. The overall fiscal impact, as of 1 July, is now around €500 for pensioners and workers alike. And for the whole year, for example, in 2023, the fiscal impact would be around €140 million. I have to say that... Now that's the sum of the local government and the state budget... for this overall fiscal impact, it is clear that in order to balance the budget with such a rapid tax reduction measure, which directly affects the budgetary base, that is to say, to put it mildly, a challenge that is currently being addressed (not to be heard.) ... The Ministry of Finance (Thank them), too, has successfully completed the coalition... And I think... just for us all together, also knowing how... how difficult this year was the budgetary process with the challenges that we have, because we already have not only one, for example, the energy crisis, but we have another communion pandemic, we have a border crisis... We actually have three crises. And it's all together, of course... I am very glad that we are so far away that we can now, today, in the Saeima... Please combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U416	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U417	I am pleased today that we can decide on this budget today. And this proposal, given that there is a budget in balance, is of little importance, whether it is 140 million or 90 million... These 50 million are very important, and it is also a budgetary base. It said there's something busy and a deficit. No, this is a measure that directly concerns and has been calculated to be depreciable directly with regard to the budgetary bases. What the budget as a whole relates to the deficit chapter, which will be objectively different for various reasons next year, is more related to the investment chapter in the budget, to one-off expenditure, including expenditure on municipalities such as grants or similar. Therefore, I would recommend that we look more carefully at these fiscal considerations, which are in the budget. I therefore call on you to stick to the very fine and indeed to the draft budget that has been calculated by the euro at the moment, which the Commission has also supported, and to reject this proposal. And to adopt a draft law in its entirety, so we will ensure that, from 1 July onwards, a person, for example with a gross income of EUR 800, will receive about EUR 30 per month more or EUR 360 per year more... by hand over the course of the year. That is, I think, a significant reflection, with a range of up to EUR 1800. Thank you for your attention. I call for this proposal to be rejected and then for the whole of the bill to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U418	Name to Member Edgar Tavar for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U419	Thank you. Colleagues! I had not planned to speak for the second time, but when we heard this mountain of cynicism and shame, which we heard from a coalition Member... a colleague who tries to compare 2018 as an example, but only forgets that at that time the budget heading was 8.9 billion... That was the time when, in fact, we also made it clear that, on 1 January 2019, we do not see how the 500 euro can be provided with an indispensable minimum, which, among other things, very beautifully promised by various speakers. But next year's budget heading of 12,4 billion - there is a slight difference. And if we are talking about applying an unlimited minimum to senior pensioners, then it must be done at a time when these people really need it very much, not at a time of pensions two months ago 14. In the elections of the Saeima, when there will already be money allocated to the parties for the state budget funds, Latvia... that we did. And then, what will happen? Even though the water flows again! So, colleagues... and the least of democracy should also be spoken to the representatives of this party, who, among other things, exclude other Members from the composition of the Saeima in the opposite way as laid down in the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. Colleagues, this proposal specifically helps seniors, helps at a time when they are most needed, helps at a time when energy prices are rising, food prices are rising and total human expenditure is rising. Plus the depressed mood is weakly high, plus we also see this number of suicides very high... and, of course, also among seniors. Therefore, colleagues, let us not deal with populism here. Here we can really help people, we can help them now from January onwards. They will already receive their much more respectable pension in February and will be able to pay this terrible price rise that has happened. Colleagues, therefore, support the proposal in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U420	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U421	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Here, hearing... Of course it's okay... as usual, there is only one brave coalition Member who will dare to take part in the budget debate. I appreciate this, of course, but it is difficult for me to agree even close to what Mr Feldman has said about a government that is as if successfully dealing with three crises - a pandemic, a border crisis and a crisis that is due to the rise in energy prices. Let us begin with this pandemic crisis. I think that any claim that the government is successfully dealing with a pandemic cannot now call anything like a laughter. That's one. The other is about the crisis on the border. Well, Mr. Feldman, we have no crisis at the border. Poles have a crisis, a border crisis. The Poles have it. If Mr Lukashenko decided to send all those migrants not to Poland or Lithuania, but to Latvia, I would be very interested to see how you... this government would cope with this crisis, given that even a specific law on the construction of the fence we have only approved a few days ago. And until then the government was unable to do anything about this. And, of course, the third point is that of electricity prices in the coming months, when people will receive their bills. Then you will see how you have coped with this crisis and what the people of Latvia will tell you... that you are perfectly dealing with this energy price crisis. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support this proposal so that you can deal with at least one crisis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U422	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U423	Thank you. I have to say that I have listened with great interest to Mr Feldman's speech on this proposal. I was especially surprised and pleased at the care of the local government budgets. I just thought, but it's impossible that he's not going to mention the Covid's problem either. It was. I had even more interest and more indignation when I also listened to the Thesis that it is necessary to have a very careful approach to fiscal influence when it comes to the inescapable minimum that all things really need to be taken very seriously here. Now I think so, because he did not speak here as a representative of the coalition, but as a member of the New Conservative Party, because it was the new Conservative Party that had that promise of an inequitable minimum of EUR 500... In that case, probably its fiscal impact was assessed from A to Z, and at that time probably everything was fine. Why should the proposal for January 1 still be supported today? Enterprise turnover, inflation. Indeed, these bills are intolerant to a very large number of people. But in this case, those who stand up for help, because it's not about borrowing, about the budget, because borrowing is so big that 10 million here or there, I think, do not play any role for the ruling coalition if, let's say, it's not about armoring machines. But in this case really should be done, because it would be logical, reasonable, and really would be a real help to people. Why the July 1st? Mr. Valaiņš says that, no, they are not any pre-election promises. Not at all. It is here that voters, in the view of Conservatives, have a very short memory. And if it were from January 1, until October, you could forget. It would be better to do it at all on 1 September, then that step would remain in the memory, and then perhaps it could also affect the outcome of the elections. I call for support for this proposal that this really should be the norm from 1 January, because winter will be difficult, and good if people can survive all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U424	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U425	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to remind you that this proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U426	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! - 34, against - 52, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U427	We have examined all 11 proposals, and the Commission supported the draft law at second, final, reading. I also invite you to support the amendments to the law on personal income tax.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U428	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” at second, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Dear colleagues, A break is planned. So the break will be 15 minutes, we'll resume at 5 p.m. And we plan to work today until 19.00. The Saeima's vote will then have to agree on the next step. I'll remind you again, we'll get back to work at 5 p.m. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. So the break is till 5 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U429	Good evening, dear colleagues! We're going on after the break. The draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2022, 2023 and 2024 is on the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U430	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, We are working on the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2022, 2023 and 2024. 202 proposals have been received. 1. - An offer from Members Vjačeslav Dombrovskis, Evija Papules, Kaspars Girgens and Erika Pucken. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U431	The name of Member Eric Pucen. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U432	Hello, dear colleagues! Hello, too, Members who have violated the Constitution and have excluded our colleagues from this parliamentary sitting! I also congratulate you on this. But I want to tell you about this proposal. So we remember very well - when we talked about the previous budget, we... The Saeima directly robbed the municipalities of Latvia, subtracting part of the income they could... make... So for development. I would like to point out that once this distribution was 80 per cent for municipalities and 20 per cent for the state, but when this budget was amended in previous years, it was 75 per cent and 25 per cent... distribution of income to the population. Why return 80 percent to municipalities and 20 percent to the state? The municipality with its budget, we have seen now, but we can do a little bit smarter. We see the state money on the right, on the left, but the municipalities are much smarter, because they work with the population and see the needs, wishes, see the services that citizens need to provide, and they cannot sit on such a high throne as we are sitting with the Prime Minister, who sees nothing. And maybe a few things that have grown into a problem. Not only have citizens had electricity bills or gas prices, but municipalities have also experienced this burden. Gas prices are being raised, so heating bills are being raised both in schools, cultural homes and municipal institutions, and these bills must be covered. So, that is, if the money is as much as it is, then someone has to take it off - either less will go to education, or less will go out, for example, to the security of the city, or the money will be taken away for urban development. And that is why this proposal provides for a direct return to the old order where the municipality can count on this particular money. Why should we trust more directly local governments? We have always spoken, and many parties have spoken about the fact that our country needs to develop in a very balanced way, so that it is not just Riga - the head of water - and some of the big cities, but we should also be regionally developed throughout the country so that people can live in their fields, small cities, and this money that the municipality receives would come directly to both road construction and school maintenance, as well as kindergartens, water management and social assistance, where we need help for pensioners, the elderly. Many issues must also be put in place with the local government police so that our cities are safe and that there are no messes. The country, we see, much is not being dealt with, but the municipalities in the regions are doing much better with their problems. There are, of course, municipalities that are also looking at large megaprojects, and there are, where this is justified, but there is, where it is not justified and it is not understandable why municipalities are spending this way. But the people therefore have their desire to go to the municipality's wish to express... and they will either support these representatives of the Council or not. And I say that this is a direct solution. A direct solution for municipalities should not wait for these instruments, either now or from the state, to cover these costs, because expenditure is only rising. And, as we can see, there is also an inexpensive minimum going down, and the municipalities will also be cut back on these revenues. I call for the two times of debate to be joined up.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U433	The times of your debate are united. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U434	Thank you. And that's... not only have I worked as a member of the municipal council, but you, several colleagues, have also worked... and look from this point of view. You have worked hard, you understand that the municipality needs this money much more, not just we give it to a country where money is wasted in all PR campaigns and mystical projects. Therefore, colleagues, perhaps let us think about people in the corners of Latvia, in the regions of Latvia, not only about our country's position, but especially about people who are in the regions. I therefore call, colleagues, on us to support this proposal and to be understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U435	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U436	Very respectful head of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, We have a budget in front of us, which can be called the pre-election budget - the pre-election budget in the sense that it will be difficult for us to find (although it is possible to find) such, so to say, obvious errors or things that would be unpleasant for people, the people of Latvia. Those who created this budget - the Minister for Finance, of course, the New Unity - understand very well, so to speak, the rules of the political cycle and understand that the budget must be as beautiful as possible one year before the elections, so to speak. That is why we also have a budget that is beautiful in many ways: an increase in the uncircumcised minimum for pensioners, all citizens have an increase in salaries, teachers and them, and so on. But we all remember well where this budget is set up. The coalition thinks that these bodies are buried, so to speak, and no one will remember about those bodies. But it's not. We remember very well the basis on which this budget is based. We remember both this and... I think voters certainly also remember how many times the tax burden was increased, labour taxes for those people who are self-employed, worked in so-called alternative tax regimes, where almost 200,000 people are concerned and, of course, the main thing is that one year ago - without any justification, without any explanation... And today... then there was complete silence on the part of the coalition; a decision was taken to reallocate them five percent of personal income tax revenue from municipalities to the state budget. As we remember, without any justification, without reducing the scope of the obligations laid down in the laws of municipalities, simply significantly reduce the revenue of municipalities... And as they said... A famous saying from the neighboring land of the former president... Prime Minister, money... Tell the municipalities - there's no money, but you stay... This, dear coalition colleagues, is a reminder of what the budget is about. Around €93 million, which represents 5 percent of personal income tax revenues, is one of the bases on which this year's budget is being drawn up. But this is not the main thing. Colleagues, you know what's the most interesting and most important in this story? The fact that you see today, in this 13th Saeima, you decided to reallocate these funds from local governments to the state budget, thus receiving the state budget EUR 93 million each year, at least for the following year. I, the President, please extend... unite the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U437	The times of your debate are united. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U438	Thank you. So, to be able to do all its good things in the country. But the interesting thing, colleagues, is that there will be elections less than a year later. And you know what? I am absolutely sure that after the 2022 elections, for example, a party like... The Union of Greens/Farmers will be in government again. And I'm ready to make a deal, colleagues, that the first thing they will stand on is to restore this proportion, this proportion of personal income tax. That is, the first thing they are going to say about returning to the ruling coalition and government is to restore this 80:20 ratio in the distribution of personal income tax. And then they (at that time they will already have more than 93 million euros) - these funds will move back to the municipal budgets. And then the public budget will have to consolidate its expenditure in some way to account for them less than 93 million. And here's the question. I do not, of course, ask this question to those new parties, such as the UKP and so on... But such as the New Unity, what did you think of? You understand very well, after all, that will happen - what I am saying now. Do you think that it will be a good thing for the country that we have one government to re-allocate funds from local governments to the national budget, then the FAO or another regional party will return, and then the same funds will be re-allocation. Do you really think seriously that this will contribute in some way to the economic development of the country? Such, so to speak, a shift of duvet from one side to the other. So, colleagues, I am calling for this proposal to be supported and for it to be done one year before it happens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U439	Name of Member Evia Papulei. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U440	Madam President, Colleagues and colleagues! I will, of course, also call for this proposal to be supported. And to be honest, it is likely that it is because of education. It is clear that municipal funding for education... Ensuring quality education will require more money. Why? Not for maintenance of infrastructure, but for salaries of educators both in schools and in pre-schools. Why do educators' salaries? Because the new model of teachers' salaries with the beautiful title “School in Municipality” – a student in the municipality! - will provide that the amount of public funding of money will not be sufficient to provide the Minister with the figure, established or otherwise found, of the minimum burden rate for educators. No matter how much load it will be - whether it's 40 hours, 30... or some other look... It is clear that in order to raise teachers' salaries, if not in the context of targeted grants, the country should pay them. And at this point, if there is no money, the founders of schools, the founders of preschools, who are municipalities, will pay. Thus, municipalities already need to start watching, accumulate funding for the development of both educational institutions and the modernisation of the infrastructure of educational institutions, including ventilation and many other things, which are determined and taught by the community situation, but specifically by the salaries of educators. Why the preschool salaries? Because preschool teachers are paid by the founder or municipalities. And there, as we know, we are constantly asking for additional money to equalise teachers' salaries so that pre-school educators, who are currently working at a rate slightly more than school educators, receive equal pay for at least one working hour, so equal pay. Why should municipal funding be increased? If the state and the minister now state that everything is fine, everything is fine, then we see in school ads, including social networks, including the media, that directors and school leaders, leaders of preschool institutions speak about vacancies. Vacancy in education is currently at least two years of intensive talk, but, as we understand, the problem is not for the Minister, it is not for anyone else to deal with it, but for school leaders. And in this case, this problem will have to be addressed by the founders of schools and pre-schools, the municipalities. This means that at this point (although it appears that people who like this work work work work work in schools and pre-schools) these people still have a role to play in the amount of pay, and the cost of teaching is also important in the context of an increase in bills. It is therefore clear that it will be necessary to involve local authorities in solving vacancies by setting higher salaries for teachers first at pre-school level, and that is important, because the start of all education is in pre-school and we need to speak especially right now... for two years, enjoying the insane management of the community in education, including a drop in quality... Therefore, the pre-school municipalities will look for additional funding (and they will simply need additional funding) for salaries and schools to attract not only teachers, as the teachers are also being searched for at the moment, so in the administration, to attract support staff, which is also the responsibility of the municipalities in financial terms, meaning - to better fund psychologists, special educators and logopediers, so support staff for children, children living in the municipality... Additional funding will be needed and this funding will not be sufficient with the current proportional distribution offered by the coalition. At this point in time, if the coalition supports this proposal, and also the future proposal of colleagues, it is clear that by providing funding to municipalities, you are also supporting quality education and the availability of teachers in pre-school and school. I call on you to think about this and not to tighten the crisis in education. Please support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U441	Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U442	Dear President, Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that municipalities in Latvia are the main service providers in the country. Main service providers! In other words, not only are the functions mentioned by previous colleagues, but... We know and remember the time when the community pandemic took place. While the government sat and feared about its voters, the municipalities acted. The municipalities organised social assistance for their people, the municipalities organized food supplies, municipalities organized many services in the case of extras, and the municipalities are also responsible for civil protection. Benefits... various social groups... It's transport for seniors, for those who need it, it's preschool education, it's support for small business, it's a big business, it's the creation of infrastructure to be where these entrepreneurs are (of whom we talk a lot, which you don't support, among other things)... to be for them, where to build their own production facilities, so that they don't leave to other countries, so that they work here, employ... pay taxes. Part of these taxes remain with the municipality, it is some kind of incentive for the municipality - this personal income tax. But we see that you take it off with a light hand. You need to understand what we're... which, to be precise, you are now at risk. You run the risk that there will probably be municipalities that will be forced to reduce their pay for pre-school educators in order to be able to maintain the road during the winter, as the snow will also need to be cleaned. Public transport or transport for children or catering in schools - we know how much it is needed in all municipalities of Latvia. It would be normal for children up to class 12 to eat warm local free lunch. There are only a few municipalities that can afford it at the moment, but with this, they will simply not be able to afford it. Administratively, within the framework of the territorial reform, it was promised that after the reform, with the merger of several municipalities, these social baskets would be levelled off and no one would be worse. What we are seeing right now is that municipalities cannot draw budgets. With this new planning you have also forgotten (which the Latvian Municipal Union mentioned, among other things, this spring, during the pandemic) how municipal budget revenue dropped, even by 55 percent. Do you think there was State aid? What was offered: “We can lend you money.” Lending money for respectively high-level projects. This is not about lending, it is about what the residents of the municipality have earned... money that should remain with the municipality. Local governments organize all their lives in municipalities - street lighting, electricity bills... We've spoken a lot of times... municipalities are required to pay for this. Yeah, we can turn off the lights on the streets. Now that we no longer have a home seat, do we want crime to rise again? No, we don't. Security, provision of order - one of the functions of the municipality. You're not gonna be us with the local police? Will the cuts be in the municipal police? What are we counting on, what can it lead to, colleagues? We are taking away 90 million from municipalities with a light hand and, at the same time, trying to pretend not to see that municipalities, namely municipalities, are the ones that provide all functions, the most important functions, in our country. Education in pre-school education - the basis for further development. The foundation for this is! No, we're sure we're sure we don't ask the municipalities where you're going to cut money if we take 90 million off you... We are simply taking off the quotas of Members and many other cool Christmas gifts. Colleagues, it is wrong, it is unfair to Latvian society, to all Latvians, because we all live in a municipality - either it is the capital Riga or it is the outermost regions of Latvia. Therefore, my fellow Members, I strongly call for support for this specific proposal, as for the next one, as for the Greens/Farmers' Union. I call for a return to the proportion of 80:20. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U443	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U444	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, Let's talk about municipalities a little bit. So I must start by saying that in 2018, when the tax reform was carried out, a number of fundamental principles were achieved. And I'll start with this first, including with the municipalities, that an agreement was reached with the municipalities about it... it was clear that, as a result of the tax reform, the reduction in labour taxes, which was a very significant reduction, would have an impact on local government budgets, especially - in particular! - the budgets of the municipalities that are further located, so to say, from the economic... the most active parts, i.e. from the capital, there will be the greatest impact. With all this in mind, the government, when adopting the tax reform, was aware that municipal revenue would fall, with total income from personal income tax simply decreasing when this tax reform was planned. At the same time, special tax regimes were not affected, they remained; this reinvested... business tax, so that entrepreneurs can reinvest this profits. But what about municipalities? Municipalities in this multi-annual budget, which we... Either today, tomorrow, or even at some other time, we will probably vote... Thus, this principle was incorporated, namely that the municipalities must guarantee this income despite a fall in tax revenue. As a result... For several years, the government, as it at least looks, has been jumping around this target grant, but has, in some way, managed to solve it, but it retains... and the fact that these municipalities may not, however, fall. But to understand that, my fellow Members, I am asking you to listen a little bit to the figures and look at this situation a little more broadly. In particular, look from 2017 and... in rotation... By 2022... Either, for the draft budget for 2022 at least, which is now before us. In 2017, state budget revenue was... Tax revenues (I am currently talking about tax revenues) totalled EUR 4.1 billion. If we look at what government revenue is... it is from 2017... for municipalities, it amounted to 1.59 billion in the municipal budgets. Of course, the special budget also comes at 2.2 billion. On the other hand, if we look at how it has grown, then we can see that by 2022 it is... State budget income - 5.4 billion, this municipal budget section - income is 1.6 billion euros. Of course, it will not be entirely correct: to mention such a figure, because this is without this special grant, which was introduced. And then, with a special grant, it already amounts to EUR 1.7 billion. Why is it important to understand and pay attention to these figures, colleagues? Because in this case, we have to look at how this increase is formed as a percentage. So if we compare the increase in the state budget from 2017 to 2022, then we can see that the increase in the state budget is 26 percent... from 2017 onwards. If we look at the municipal budgets - in the municipal budgets this increase is 12 percent. And here's the question. Do you think that in municipalities, from 2017 until 2022, life has been standing on the ground? We can see... at the time of the reform... Reform promoters have said that municipalities will now have growth, so that there will be a turning point. If, on average over 10 years, the proportion of municipal budget in the state budget was 19,6-19,8 percent, then now, after the reform and all the famous texts that municipalities will have a better life, I see that today's revenue... with a special grant... Municipal budgets... The draft budget for 2022 shall be 17,6 per cent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U445	Mr. Valains, I'm sorry... The time of your debate may be combined if you wish to continue.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U446	Colleagues, I'm not going to have two minutes. I will apply again. I am now uniting, but I will go on with the next proposals. At the moment, I am calling for a merger.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U447	Your times are united. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U448	Yeah, thank you. So, colleagues, in this story I have... Let's go. So that's the basis... A reduction in base revenue is essential - essential! - in contrast to the increase in the state budget revenue. If we go further and see what has changed, how the various factors that affect the work of municipalities have changed... Increase in minimum wage by 32 per cent during this period. The average wage increase is 40 per cent over this period. The minimum wage rate for teachers has increased by 32 percent if we look back on 2017... Against the 2022 project. Changes in consumer prices - 10 percent. Changes in gross domestic product - 26 percent. All these are essential components that change the amount of this budget expenditure. I mentioned if we put together, then the increase in the state budget is 26 per cent, for municipalities only 12 per cent. But if this salary section has grown so much, it cannot be overlooked that this salary section for municipalities is about... more or less, but it is 43 percent (I am talking about all municipalities in general). So if we allow this development of general municipal budgets to lags well behind the country's overall development measures, then the local government has this wage fund... It's by nature... It's a stress... Even in the form of reforms of any kind, its tensions remain growing.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U449	Mr. Valaiņš, sorry, I have to stop you. The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U450	Good evening, chair of the sitting! Good evening, colleagues! The reduction in municipal funding was achieved at a time when the government considered that it was difficult for the times and that the municipalities could solidarity with the central government and slightly step back in their monetary needs, and agree to this division - 75:25 - in favour of the state. The difficult times have passed because, as we know, for several years... Prime Minister has said that money has more than ever. If there's more money than ever, then the difficult times for the state's power are behind. Perhaps it is time to restore the right principle that municipalities continue to receive 80 per cent and that the state power retains 20 per cent? This would only be fair, especially against those municipalities in the peripheral world. The maintenance of such an artificial "funding famine" is beneficial for the state's power - why? Because you can dictate your rules. In local government borrowing regulations, in various cases of funding, municipalities are controlled through money, through influence, also through political affiliation. It should therefore be noted that it is the peripheral municipalities that now, even after the administrative territorial reform, are experiencing this lack of funds, because the well-designed measure that the state power will repay the debt and return... will restore this division - 80 per cent and 20 per cent - to income... that sometime will return to the municipal budgets... and that it will be possible to carry out those projects that the local Members had planned in their development plans, where... it had already been shown to the public that the population would have an infrastructure or other facility that would improve the lives of the population, that it would restore some road or else... At the moment, all this looks like an empty mulling and bidding... making promises that are not intended to be honoured. Once again I emphasize - keeping artificial money in starvation, municipalities are humiliated and people are encouraged to get away from these municipalities, because the optimisation of schools also led to the fact that children living in the peripherals are forced to move in the direction of centres, then – in the direction of large cities, and later – to foreign countries. This is how we lose our citizens. That's how we lose the new generation. So we're losing our people, so we're losing the new generation, so we're losing the conditional suffocation or the next printfules, so we're creating this artificial deficit ourselves, creating dissatisfaction in the countryside. And people have really realized that what is often done by the investment banker, Mr. Rungaiņš... that in the countryside people do not have to live, there are wild beasts, mushrooms, forest, and people do not have to live there. That's it. The real life is in town. I understand that we're trying to do something in the name of the opposition, but... I know what's happening on the other side. And for that, a little later. But at the moment, I am calling for a vote in favour of this fair distribution, for it to be returned, for it to be restored and for it to end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U451	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U452	Thank you. To be honest, the debate on proportions seems to me to be eternal. I remember a time when its proportion was 82:18 - in favour of municipalities, naturally. Here, I think the most important thing is that personal income tax is the main source of income for municipalities. The main thing! No one else can replace this source. It is therefore important to examine very carefully which political - political, economic - political! - to take decisions in this case. There are two things here. First thing. By creating an administrative territorial reform, we are one of the main challenges... We said that this reform is a momentum for development. But in order for there to be momentum for development not only in words, there must also be economic impulses. And in this case, there is no doubt that we also need a financial impetus, which unfortunately this budget does not show. Therefore, the proposal to maintain even the previous proportion - 20:80 - is a proportionate proposal. The second thing. When it comes to absolute figures, these 20 or... have been mentioned several times. 93 million euros, which is making their robe, reducing this... altering this ratio to what is proposed in the draft budget. But 90 million for the state budget... at billion inflows in the budget... is a drop at sea. It is a vital amount for municipalities. Given that there are attempts (and these attempts are quite successful in some places) to restrict the independence of municipalities, the municipalities will tie their hands with regard to the realisation of the basic functions of municipalities, it seems to me that the proposal we are discussing today is to be supported by both hands, because it... Although it will not solve all the problems, it will give inspiration to the people of municipalities working in municipalities that take care of - much better than the ruling coalition - for their own interests. That is why it would be an impulse for municipalities - mostly a moral impulse - so that they can do their duties and solve their tasks better, more efficient, more efficient and beneficial for people. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U453	Name to Member Juris Pucem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U454	Good evening, very honourable chair of the sitting! High honourable Members! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. It's a pleasure to speak to you all at 17.40 a.m. - working day night. I would like to say a few small remarks. I was actually referred to by a number of previous speakers, mentioning concrete figures and a specific approach to formulate the attitude towards whether and what the distribution between public and municipal budgets should be. I have to say that my colleague, Sergey Dolgopolov, is the most accurate... actually said what I also wanted to say, that the proportions really... Historic... has changed many times, has never had the same proportion. There is no "gold law" or "gold split", which should be the distribution of income between the state and local governments. In this history of our 30 years since the restoration of Latvia's independence, the division between the state and local governments has been between 30 percent... I'm sorry to the state... Up to 18 percent of the state... and actually any number in the middle between these figures. And this has changed politically on several occasions. The current ratio - 75:25 - does not go outside the normal field, normal... the balance between the state and the municipality, covering the functions of the municipality. And, of course, our colleagues from the Group of the Greens/farmers' Union... Viktors Valainis talks about 2017 as a golden time against which it should be compared, which is the most optimal time, and... Any deviation from that time, 2017, division is abnormal and endangers the existence of municipalities. And even he says in his address that since then the municipal budget has grown rather than decreased, as several colleagues stressed. The municipal budget in this period... both tax revenues and... the overall budget has grown. And will grow next year compared to the current year. Keep growing. Since the municipality will have access to resources for the exercise of its functions, more resources will be available than is currently available. In addition, substantial investment resources are available in both the state budget, where... the investment programme has been renewed for the first time... Last year was renewed, this year it continues - the state budget investment programme for municipalities... after a 17-year break. When the ZZS was in power, it never failed; now it has succeeded. Yeah, well... Of course, the new period of the Structural Funds will start next year, the new period of the Recovery and Stability Mechanism, where significant funds will be available to local authorities for development. Finally, the last one I would like to say. I see that you, honourable colleagues in Možvillo, are growing considerably as a politician, because what you voted for a year ago is already the robbery of municipalities. That's what I'd like to end with. I call for this particular proposal not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U455	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr Bondar!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U456	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that there was no such wide-ranging debate in the Commission. And whatever... Despite the fact that there was a debate, proposal 1 was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U457	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal tabled by Members Domrovsky, Papule, Girgen and Pucken! Please, let's vote! On - 32, against - 53, refrains - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U458	2. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. It is similar to proposal 1, and it also talks about changing this proportion... how it has been defined at the present time. Neither has this proposal been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U459	The Bureau of Laws notes that this is an analogous proposal, not to be put to the vote, but to be debated. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U460	Thank you, Mr Pouce, for your instructive speech. Thank you very much for being involved in this debate, and this is actually the place. The only thing I would like to say to you is that. Are you really listening - you listen completely - to what we are saying on this issue? Yes, it is true - we compared to 2017, and indeed you understood correctly - that there has been an increase of 12 per cent in the municipal budgets. But you have not heard that 32 per cent of the minimum wage has increased, which, of course, affects the expenditure section of municipalities; the average wage in the country has significantly increased; and the minimum wage for educators... wages, wages and salaries have risen significantly; there has also been inflation of 10 per cent in the country, which, in itself, simply offsets any increase that has occurred in municipal budgets over the last five years. Colleagues, at the same time... We look at the revenue of the state budget: increase - 26 percent. You just mentioned that there have also been good things done... and that you have done what you could not do for 17 years - you have set up a municipal investment programme. Colleagues, you took 300 million off the municipalities and now you give them a chance to borrow money from the Treasury, which you call the municipal investment development programme... with a small part of the gravel program, which also... its money is essentially divided according to political affection. Colleagues, this is not a way to develop regions! Colleagues, the gap between Riga, Vidzeme, Zemgale, Latgale, Kurzeme... Look at any of these territories... after the administrative territorial reform... after a number of budgets that you... you have voted... The only budgets that did not foresee a significant reduction in municipal budgets were those that were fundamentally developed by the Union of Greens/Farmers... including in this government... By presenting the three-year budget we did in 2018. Now that you are adopting these budgets yourself, this reduction in the proportion of municipalities is very significant here. It is very sad that this happens exactly after the administrative territorial reform, when local authorities were promised rapid growth. 2021 - 18.6 per cent. It's together with the entire targeted grant. 2022 - 17.6 percent. Colleagues, these are facts. And you in a way... You want to say that this will ensure any territorial development?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, On the contrary, you are taking away the money from the municipalities, putting enormous pressure on the development budget. The fact that people in municipalities want to develop what you wanted there... Entrepreneurship... no matter which of the events that politicians so much like to talk about, that is the thing that now needs to be developed, that is the thing that will encourage the return of the population, the construction of housing... You know what things are mentioned, but at the same time you take a very significant part of the money away from the municipalities. 300 million - it is a minimum amount of money that has been removed from the... For base bases. Last year it was even for the government to take a decision to help the municipalities of Latgale pay... providing basic services. A whole range of Latgale municipalities had problems with the provision of basic services. This year special solutions were sought. I also said thank you for at least finding them, but... three per cent increase in inflation, which is four per cent... against those wages... that as well as growing... and the municipalities must pay... 42 per cent - such municipal budgets have a salary section. If it increases, the investment chapter will decrease. What are you up to? You will give them this withdrawn money instead of giving them back in some way (at least through the gravels would have returned!) But you say, “You don’t have enough money? You can borrow money.” Colleagues, is it a territorial... Any development?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, After the reform, you are getting even more desperate in the municipalities. You made them bigger, you say, reform them! So what can they do to reform? Where are the big orders, studies of the Bank of Latvia? The economy of 180 million will be created... And another... The finance minister called these numbers... He'd be ashamed! There won't be any such thing. At present, even debt spending is increasing. Social guarantees must be adjusted, services must be adjusted. Expenditure is increasing. Who is suffering from this? Development! It is development investment that is suffering. Primary investments go ahead, then everything else. And call up some stuff here... Colleagues! This budget will be harmful to municipalities, territories and regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U461	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U462	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Dear colleagues, First of all, I appreciate the fact that our colleague, Juris Pūce, has decided to join and participate in this debate after two days of this budget debate. Really, better later than never. I hope that Juris Pūce will also continue to do so. And I hope that this will be an example, and she will be followed by other colleagues in the coalition. But now it's a thing. So, as I understood from my colleague, this proportion of personal income tax between municipalities and government can be changed because this range has historically been wide. Both one, one, 22, and 30... and what was there... But such an argument... in favour of replacing... And it was really a decision of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, who at that time was just Juris Pūce, at least an initiative (probably - together with the Minister of Finance), a year ago - to change the distribution of personal income tax. But to put forward the argument that, here, you can do this or that you can do it, because, historically, this proportion has been different - it is difficult to qualify as some kind of evidence-based approach or as a serious approach to decision-making in public administration at all. If we follow this logic, then perhaps the Minister of Finance should make some kind of lottery every year - take some historical range that has been, and within this range, make a lottery about what we will have in this year's distribution of personal income tax between municipalities and the state. The second argument has been this: here we were looking at the fact that the increase in municipal income from personal income tax has been very high. Well, if we colleagues look like this, then... What is it about approach? Then the municipalities... Look at what has been or is projected to increase tax revenues in the budget... the state budget, as well as the municipalities... and at the first chance try to take it part of this pie? I'm salting... Colleagues, such a historical derogation... at least from my point of view. I've learned something or made my own conclusions. About ten years ago, the Reform Party had such a big message: to reduce the tax burden on labour. It was the Reform Party which - at least initially - strengthened the reduction in the tax burden on labour by five percentage points - in the legislation that we achieved at that time. Unfortunately, however, at that time our coalition partners, who are also leading the government today, decided to reduce it without any compensation to the municipalities. And, of course, then, the Union of Greens and Farmers was not in government either. Thus, the reduction in personal income tax was... 80 percent... at the expense of local authorities. What happened? At some point, the FAO came back to government, and their first requirement, of course, was to put an end to this personal income tax reduction programme. This reduction has therefore been only partial. What is the result? Please combine the time of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U463	The times of your debate are united. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U464	What has been the result? What has all this provided to the state? So the entrepreneurs were initially promised to have a five-percent reduction in labour taxes, actually only three per cent, so the entrepreneurs had some disappointment, and that was all about it. My prognosis is that something similar will happen after the next year's elections. As ratings point out, the Union of Greens/Farmers is likely to be in government again, and their first demand will probably be to return to this old division - 80:20 - and will therefore need to move EUR 93 million a year from the state budget to the local government budgets (with all the resulting consequences). And now I have a question, both for Mr Puce and for all the other members of the coalition, of what benefit for the country if such a cyclical change takes place every four years? The Greens and Farmers' Union are not in government: there is a reallocation of resources from local governments to the state budget. The Union of Greens and Farmers returns to government - then there is a reallocation of funds from the state budget to the municipal budget. So all that happens is in fact simply pulling the blanket from one end to the other end. What is the connection with the development of the country, colleagues? How does this even contribute to the development of the country? No way! That is why our first proposal was also tabled - as a reminder to colleagues. You can reject it today, but I think both Mr Pouce and the other experienced Members who are in this Saeima understand very well: as I say today, it will be. A year later, two years later, but it will. And then we will remember this conversation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U465	The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U466	Thank you for your word. I'll start with a couple of thanksgivings. First and most important. I thank Juris Pucem for assessing my quality and marking growth. The other thanks will be to the former coalition and coalition colleagues. Thank you for showing me how experienced politicians run the country. Thank you again. Next. About these municipal budgets. Why did I vote last year in favour of all my colleagues? Because I was a young gourmet who recently joined the Saeima, so I was all young and unknown. But I was studying, looking, listening, watching, and it was clear to me that what is being done at the moment by central power and coalition... There is no idea about the state, but about political games about big money, about influence, about power. Now I turn to those who don't know... and which have not been in the municipality: no municipality other than Riga may draw up a budget with a deficit. Nobody. All budgets must be either zero or surplus. That's the law! This is determined by law and central authority. I have been in a number of terms - from 2009 - and every year, after the adoption of the national budget, local economists tried to put an end to the night so that this budget can really be created with the amount of money that the central government has devoted to. Yes, this distribution - 80:20 - was quite close to what allowed these budgets to be drawn up, so that the plans that the Members had intended with the people could be implemented as far as possible. Yes, the elections came, there were electoral madness, there were all kinds of tragic promises, different... Party leaders currently in opposition... The local leaders promised wonders, all kinds of golden mountains and ducks that had to be set up in the mountain. Unfortunately, we have come to the fact that even more regions have been created, but local needs have not been reduced and are becoming more and more, because at the moment the central authority has moved away from these problems and it is felt that this central authority, which has left, is not particularly interested in how to solve the problems of regions that are now further away from power. Consequently, I think it is absolutely normal to return money to municipalities so that the regions are not forgotten. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U467	Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U468	Colleagues! Since the proposals are similar, in fact identical, I will not repeat what I said to the previous proposal... as the main service provider in the country, but I'll pay attention... Colleagues, for your information. I think many have not followed municipal budgets because... I understand that the coalitions of municipal functions (the sound defect.) ... There is absolutely no understanding. After all, all these social functions, the educational functions provided by... But the fact that the education chapter in municipal budgets can be from one third to up to one half... Colleagues, there is not only education, there is also infrastructure for maintaining education, schools for people to live... We are currently talking about ventilating spaces. We are talking about access to education for children, education groups; access to services; minimum co-payments for parents. That's... 50 percent... in case... at this point... Considering that the budgets have... from one third to one side... and education section... the budgets of the municipality... they may be touched... and, most likely, it will also be affected... We are talking that children are our future, but at the moment you are actually taking away not the mayors of local governments (for mayors you set salaries in advance, you have voted for yourself, you have come with your proposals), you are taking away education, those who are most in need. It is absolutely true that Vjačeslav Dombrovskis is that we will certainly correct this error, just as we have yet to correct the error of the figures that have now been worked out. Colleagues, you can't do that. We have also talked a lot about road safety; I have previously listed the functions of local authorities in the field of traffic. ‘ Small” things, including black holes, black points removal (there are dead!) , - they are mostly municipal functions that need to be ensured; there are various improvements in traffic, and so on. So, colleagues, this municipal money... These 93 million, which have been taken away, is not an arrogance to one or the other political force; colleagues, it is an arrogance to the people of Latvia, it is an arrogance to the municipalities that provide the main services in our country to our citizens. Totally all residents living in the territory of our country live in a municipality, as I have already mentioned, either it is Riga or perhaps the remote municipality in the border area. That's why, colleagues, it's very, very bad at this time... taking into account both the potential inflation rate and many other things, including good things, by the way... If we've also talked about an inexhaustible minimum, then it's all summed up... to the municipal budgets. It is therefore very incorrect - compared to previous years, even more so - to draw parallels with the cost chapter of the national budget. Therefore, colleagues, I believe that this error will have to be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U469	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U470	Thank you. Well, quite naive it is - now to talk about that proposal, which has been rejected, but I would like to say a few things, however. The first thing is that this conversation is in place, but not at the right time. I think that talking about the problems of municipal financing... should have spoken and done it at the same time as introducing administrative reform. Mr Pouce probably remembers that, at the very starting point of the reform, at the municipal congress, I also said this, I also offered it to the ministry at that time - also to think about a model that would help to avoid the equalisation fund, to help local authorities to put an end to the exercise of their autonomous functions. In this case... 20:80 - it is not a solution, it is only a political signal, no more, because the pattern has not been designed, it has remained constant for many years and does not satisfy either the local government or the state, nor, above all, the population. What the model should then be is that it is not the subject of today's negotiations, but it will certainly have to come back to it. But there is another thing that is very important today. As Mr Pūce remembers very well, the new municipal law also provides for major changes in the activities of municipalities. Well, I'm not calling everyone, but I'd like to give one example. The draft proposed by the Ministry... The draft proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers provides that the police of the municipality should be established in all municipalities. This is a pretty expensive process. Who will finance it and what sources - it is difficult to say this today. What will the final result be? How will this model look when the Saeima adopts the new law on municipalities? And how will this be related to the already approved national budget? Last thing I'd like to say. This conversation is in place... It is also about increasing municipal budgets. Yes, it is. The revenue share of the state budget is also increasing. Very good... And thank God. But there is another indicator - the budget share of municipalities in the consolidated budget. Unfortunately, we're here... We cannot be proud that we would be at the forefront of Europe as a whole, even though it is one of the most important points, because it burdens public administration and shifts the performance of real functions closer to those people who have this function... who will receive these services, a range of these services. That is why I am not calling for support for an unacceptable proposal, which has already been rejected, but for the ruling coalition to think about the need for a solution to this problem. And this solution cannot be behind the mountains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U471	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U472	Colleagues! It is really interesting to listen to this debate, which lies around administrative territorial reform and how all this looks in reality, in life. Of course, money for roads was promised, maybe there are all kinds of funds and yet to be in touch, but overall, roads have less than 50 million in this budget... against the previous year. If we are talking about this development money - of course this development money was originally taken away by local governments, then as a gift it is returned... is given a certain number of municipalities, not all; all others are given the opportunity to borrow. Also the police of the municipality mentioned by Mr Dolgopolova... It is set as a mandatory function in this budget as well... and the multiannual budget. We see that there is no word, no word, no word, that the country can participate in co-financing this function. There is a law for this, but there is no word for who would somehow realize these promises in life. But, my fellow Members, in general, we have to understand that the municipalities now, at this time, are... Above all, it is necessary to provide sufficient public support so that municipalities can also help our citizens and use... this possibility would be used more effectively directly through municipal infrastructure, providing social services, housing benefits and others that we can... This is self-evident. All these benefits accepted by the State... We have all voted for them together - EUR 20 for every senior, regardless of whether he has income of EUR 1000 or EUR 2000, all in a row, EUR 500 for all in a row... Can we really, in the long term... spend a long time playing like this? I don't think so. And it could be done more effectively through municipalities, more purposefully, really to those who need it. This revenue structure of municipalities should therefore be changed in favour of municipalities, especially at present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U473	I closed the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal was to be debated, but not to be put to the vote. We are going on with proposal 3. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U474	3. - The Cabinet's proposal. It's actually about dividend payments to the state budget... from the ‘High-voltage Network’. The budget and financial (tax) commission supports this.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U475	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U476	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Dear colleagues, I do not know why the rapporteur has not explained the substance of this proposal. The substance of this proposal is as follows: In the first reading of the draft state budget it was planned that dividends... 64 percent... The revenue from the budget of the state-owned public limited liability company “High-voltage Network” will be EUR 10 million, but then the second reading was submitted from the government's proposal that the budget of the “High-voltage Network” will not be EUR 10 million but EUR 29 million. So, colleagues, during the period between the first and the second reading, the forecast of the state budget revenue in terms of revenue from the state-owned joint stock company “High voltage network” increased by EUR 20 million. This shows how this government is planning the budget. So, colleagues, I have such a question for coalition colleagues... Maybe the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance could answer that... or that ministry... I do not remember now, whether it is the Ministry of Economic Affairs or the Ministry of Finance. Maybe the Ministry of Finance. The same parliamentary secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Zakatistov, could answer the following question: are you sure that this amount of dividends due to the state budget is indeed the same? Because if you now make that difference almost four times... If it has changed its forecast of what the profits of this joint stock company will ultimately be this year, maybe we should wait another week or two? Maybe its profits will be higher? No, seriously! Maybe the government should wait a while and think about, arrange the accounting? Because if there are such large, huge differences in the numbers between two readings, then it raises questions. Well, maybe someone in the Ministry of Finance could explain what happened here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U477	Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U478	Dear President, Dear colleagues, In fact, this issue, which was touched by my colleague Vjačeslav Dombrovskis, has been highlighted... on certain decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers and on this fast forecast of profit... I think that those who follow the price of electricity on the stock exchange, those who follow the principles of high-voltage networks and, among other things, our Latvenergo profits, understand and focus on this issue. What possible record profits could we talk about in 2022 - at a time when people's beaks come to their ends, at a time when we make up small sums - EUR 20 - for those seniors who have vaccinated? For the purposes of this proposal... In fact, colleagues would have to ask at least... the Minister for Finance or the Minister for Economics would join the debate and say... because here we are talking about 2021; here we are not touching 2022. This is about possible profits this year... on what could also be earned by “Salales tīkls” and “ Latvenergo”. But, colleagues, while people pay for it and the beaks pay... Many will also be unable to pay, and many will be in the hands of bailiffs. It would therefore be fair to the public - to say in good time that... This profit ratio - for 2022 - should also be clearly recorded in the budget... and a much higher percentage than... we are talking about 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U479	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U480	Dear colleagues, Well, at least for the high-voltage network, this increase in profits should not reflect an increase in the price of electricity on the market. I would be surprised if this increase in profits were to come about precisely because it is, however, an electricity carrier and not a producer. But my colleague, Mr. Tatar, has raised a very good question. Also, how much of the country - or more so, Latvenergo, which belongs to the country - will benefit from this increase in the price of electricity... And there is no doubt that already this year Latvenergo will deserve it. Of course, there is a difference in the structure of the contracts concluded, because those with fixed contracts will only change the price from 1 January to 1 January. But the part of electricity that Latvenergo sells at stock exchange prices today... and that will be the case next month - December... then it is clear that this electricity is sold at a price that is more than twice... than the one that was planned. And it's interesting that at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission... When the Ministry of Finance was asked whether more profits were planned, the answer was that no; that, here, the Ministry of Economics says that no plans are planned. That's very strange, colleagues. On the ‘Republic’ side, on the ‘Republic’ side, there is a proposal... is the calculation for higher returns... and a proposal to shift their profits towards paying for oncology medicines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U481	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U482	Very respectful Head of the sitting! I see the debate followed by the Minister of Finance. This would perhaps be the right place where the finance minister could join in and bring clarity on this issue, not only to follow this very interesting debate. In this case... The residents of Latvia receive daily invoices that have a very significant impact on their wallets. On electricity, we now see that this significant increase in profits is indeed difficult to understand within a week of submission and that the changes in Latvenergo's revenue are not discussed at all. At the same time, what people see... Now these are the authorities that present invoices to citizens, and the people do not care what kind of invoice is inside: whether there is an OIC, whether there is a distribution fee, or there are any events on the stock exchanges, they are totally interested in the galaxy. Instead, we see here through proposals that it is very difficult to understand where this increase in profits comes from. We also expect that Latvenergo itself will make this increase in profits much higher than what is currently planned in the budget. I call at least someone... Perhaps Mr Bondara could also explain exactly what we have not understood... whether it's where we're wrong. If we do not make mistakes, citizens will pay big bills, but what will happen to these profits? It is absolutely unclear where they will be diverted, how they will be diverted. These questions require answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U483	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr Bondar!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U484	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that the third proposal, which was a proposal from the Cabinet of Ministers, was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U485	No explanation?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U486	You know, if I have to say that on behalf of the Commission, there can be no explanation, because there was no debate on this proposal. Personally like Mārtiņš Bondars, I could of course explain, but that would not have been on behalf of the Commission, and then I should have been in the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U487	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - A proposal from the Cabinet! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Proposal 3 has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U488	4. - the proposal of our fellow Member, Ralph Nemir, who is actually talking about the preparation of the budget for 2023, 2024 and 2025 and is talking about the structural balance. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U489	The name to Member Ralph Nemir. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U490	Good evening, chair of the sitting! Good evening, colleagues! Mr Bondara has already clearly marked, so I am talking about... in its proposal for a move towards a non-deficit budget. At the moment when 51 Members vote for themselves today, let's say... their officials, ministers and other elected officials for raising their salaries; however, the termination of such a fever borrowing should be at some point. At the moment, the government and the Minister for Finance are somewhat reminding of a gambling player who, in fact, cannot cover his passion with his income, and must begin to borrow and meet all the needs. This proposal, as once again laid down - in the years 2023, 2024 and 2025 - the obligation to draw up a budget from its own resources. At a time when GDP is growing by six percent, we are still borrowing, borrowing and borrowing. If we look back at Krišjānis Kariņš' government period, i.e. from 23 January 2019 to today, the external debt has risen from 11 billion already to 17 billion. A great deal of experts have pointed out that it may be possible to borrow funds for further development, to invest in various ICT companies, perhaps in investment projects with future added value and thus also in the feasibility of value added tax forecasts, but if we look at today's events, then this borrowed money is practically allocated to ourselves, given to the quotas of Members in completely incomprehensible criteria... it is completely incomprehensible where this sorting event has occurred, why one is awarded, why the other is not granted. All this, of course, is simply because the money is as much as it has never been. And I guess this government has not been able to cope with this amount of money and power, because all the time money is invested somewhere, not primarily for development, but primarily for itself. Therefore, colleagues, the proposal itself is a move towards a deficit-free budget. The budget deficit at least at last is the moment when we could start thinking about achieving something like that, in Estonia, for example, where external debt is, of course, much less than we do. And at the time of 2008, the crisis of 2009, when we increased external debt, was also rising the cost of external debt. If the costs are not high at the moment, absolutely no one guarantees that these costs could not rise in the future. The burden on the budget can therefore be further increased. Not only will it be necessary to earn, colleagues, the money that has to be repaid as an external debt, but also, of course, debt service charges, which will not be small at this level of debt. At a time when we are investigating in the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry questions about the use of funds, including the reimbursement of the vaccination office and other expenses, the Minister of Finance says: either do not give, how do you not, how do you not do that, but the answer is to start with the money that has been earned and then with the money that has been borrowed. That is why, my fellow Members, I am calling for this proposal to be supported so that the government no longer takes on as feverishly as it is today and that we do not grow our external debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U491	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U492	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that proposal 4 was not in favour of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U493	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Member Nemir's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Proposal 4 has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U494	5. - also the proposal by our colleague Andrejs Klementyev, who is already talking about budgets for 2023, 2024 and 2025. There are different costs, so that... This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U495	Members have not applied in the debate. The vote has been requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Andrey Klementyeva's proposal! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 23, against - 52, abstaining. Proposal 5 has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U496	6. - The Cabinet's proposal. Related to Brexit, Brexit correction. And this is supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U497	Members have not applied for a vote in the debate, but they have been asked to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - A proposal from the Cabinet! Please, let's vote! No, 64, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Proposal 5 has been supported. Proposal No 6, sorry, is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U498	7. - The Cabinet's proposal. It's quite technical. And the Commission is also supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U499	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U500	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It's also quite technical. And the Commission is, of course, also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U501	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U502	9. ... we are already moving to a table where... it is a proposal from the Cabinet of Ministers. And the Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U503	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U504	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - also a proposal from the Cabinet of Ministers. It is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U505	Members... Let's start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U506	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Dear colleagues, Now this is one of the proposals of the famous grande who's here... apparently there is an attempt on the part of the government, to say so, to put an end to this Flemish case, to say so. I will call on my fellow Members not to support this proposal, because there is an alternative proposal for us, as Members of the Party's 'Republic', to point out the exact item to which the EUR 183 000 to be spent were to be bought by the Presidential Chancellery. I therefore call for this vote to abstain and then then to support our proposal, which is to channel money from this grande, precisely to medicine, which, in my opinion, would be a much, much more appropriate step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U507	I closed the debate. The debate was closed, Mr Valaiņš, I am sorry. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U508	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that 10. - The proposal of the Cabinet was approved by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U509	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - A proposal from the Cabinet! Please, let's vote! For -62, for -5, for -4.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U510	11. - also a proposal from the Cabinet of Ministers. In fact, it is supported by the Commission. And it is due to dividend contributions to the state budget and their transfer to funds for unforeseen events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U511	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U512	12. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U513	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U514	13. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal of the Group on Homeland and Freedom/LNNK. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U515	Members have requested a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal put forward by the Group for Homeland and Freedom/LNNK! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U516	On the other hand, 14. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U517	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U518	Dear colleagues, This is a proposal that we developed together with the Latvian Education and Science Workers' Union. And, in essence, this proposal provides for... we address university teachers... If we look at this, this model of educators' pay growth was originally presented in the budget. Everyone said very nicely that it has been fulfilled. That's what it is. It's happening. This, in my opinion, could have been better done for preschool teachers, because there is an ever larger cross, but we will talk about it later. This is about university teachers. The Prime Minister told the bulls that, in some cases, we are now spending money in science. The salary model for higher education teachers was completed in 2022. So they're not going to make any changes with 2022. It is not thought that they have an increase in their bills or that they have an increase in their daily expenses. It is assumed that teachers of higher education can continue to work calmly with the same salary, despite the fact that there is inflation in the country, despite the fact that there are a number of other categories, including other teachers, whose salaries are rising... for them, this timetable shall expire in 2021. I thought it was a mistake at first. Now that we are presenting this proposal and seeing that no one is trying to find a solution here in any way, I understand that this is not a mistake. Well, then I have a question, one of the fields of education or the parliamentary secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science could perhaps explain how, then, in the higher education system... we are talking: in higher education reforms and now we are changing the governance model here, all kinds of smart things, smart words - at the end of the day, the teacher who gives lectures there... We forgot about it. Well, I think colleagues, that's not normal. And that is why our group also responded to this call by the trade union of Latvian education and science workers. We made this proposal, we discussed it with the trade union. And it is absolutely clear that a solution is needed here. Unfortunately, such a solution is not proposed at the moment. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for support for this proposal that we have drawn up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U519	Name of Member Evia Papulei. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U520	Thank you, Madam President and colleagues. It is now clear that the reforms announced in higher education are not financially supported. And not only in terms of remuneration is not supported, but also in terms of increasing payments for the maintenance of higher education institutions. It is not supported that early or late announced Soviets will also have to pay salaries, probably from the higher education institution's budget, rather than from any other form of support. If European Structural Funds funding is used, it cannot be long-term and cannot be permanent. It is understandable that higher education institutions are increasingly in a position to use funding, regardless of how they plan their budgets and how successful or failing university councils will be. I invite you to support it, because in this situation, with the costs of maintenance, the costs of the Soviet people also increase... for searches, it is clear that there may not be enough funding to raise teachers' salaries. I therefore call for support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U521	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr Bondar!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U522	In view of the request for a vote, I would just like to remind you that 14. - The Greens/Farmers' Union proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U523	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - the proposal put forward by the Group of the Greens/Family Union! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U524	15, on the other hand. - The Cabinet's proposal. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U525	Members have requested a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 15. - A proposal from the Cabinet! Please, let's vote! No, 67, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U526	16. - our colleague Alda Gobzem's proposal. A re-allocation from the budget of the Presidential Chancellery to the general budget is foreseen because, as he said in the commission, he sees no justification for this funding. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U527	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U528	Good evening, Latvian society! Good evening, my colleagues! In principle, Mr Bondara wrongly pointed out that I wanted to re-allocate there. I want the President of State, Mr Levit, to simply withdraw these funds in order to reduce the public budget expenditure in order to reduce the enormous external debt that this government is trying to put into our people. And I'll explain what I mean. So I read the draft budget and I look at what the Presidential Chancellery intends to spend a million 200 thousand euros with a tomb. Former so-called ‘Prime Minister’ of the so-called ‘Donetsk People's Republic’. I'm sorry, how is strengthening? What do we want to strengthen? Or how much more to accept some counselors 27? 220,000 will spend extra money. In Estonia, by the way, the Presidential Chancellery spends several million less. Then - the President's institution to ensure the activities of the centenary. How long will the centenary of Latvia be celebrated? Another 10-15 years of celebration? So it's the best. Thanks to me, the whole country began to talk about it and showed, by the way, on television that the President of Latvia would refuse to buy the famous concert flute for the Riga Castle Festival Hall. 183,000. He showed “Panorama, ” showed Delphi, and everywhere he showed that Levit would refuse. He has not given up yet! In the draft budget, the concert grande for 183 thousand is in. The real time. Once again, Pavilut will play on that grand piano and Karin will sing? How's it going to be? And it's interesting: where do these grand pianos stay in Riga Castle? But they recently bought one new one. They're disappearing. And it wasn't a grand piano that burned in a fire, it was already bought after the fire, but there must be a guess that those grand pianos are disappearing... And then you have to buy the most expensive, the more expensive... because we already have Mr. Levite, as Raimonds Pauls is, how to put on a grand piano like Raimonds Pauls! I think Raimond Paul doesn't have such a expensive grand piano. For improvement of the garden of Riga Castle also... I'm wearing that with my finger - 70,000. They're probably going to plant rhodododendrons. After the event in December it will be necessary to restore rhododendrons, and then the time to throw 70 thousand to the garden. Then there is another interesting position - organising the Three-Sea Initiative Summit. Three seas. I would like to know who the President of Latvia... and, in principle, I don't think they're calling anywhere. He is not popular outside Latvia at all. Someone has a connection with the Adriatic Sea and the Black Sea at all, and who benefits Latvia from it. More than half a million - 568 thousand! - will spend on this initiative. It's interesting that this same Three-Sea Initiative... the summit is scheduled for about a little more, I think... I don't know how many ministries there... The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also budgets someone, I think, half a million (we will go through this), another ministry... Just those budget programs, so you understand, dear people, are being made like this: the program is somehow named, so that fine sounds, and then can be taken from you, dear people, from you, taxpayers, money, put there half a million, budget. And the government votes. Now I am already voting in favour, because the coalition has already agreed, so actually told you on television that there will be no grand piano, but today in this vote you will see that there will be a vote in favour. Then there is still a centenary of the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia... for the party - 155 thousand. Bring them together at once to me, so I can tell you all the people.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U529	The times of your debate are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U530	So it's for the party. Constitutional Court. Mrs Osipova, President of the Constitutional Court, where have you disappeared - a great human rights defender? Article 1 of the Satversme on the Democratic Republic does not work in the Saeima, Article 5 does not work. You're gone somewhere. But if you need 155 thousand parties (with black eggs, probably), then no QR codes, nothing will be needed, then everything will happen. For your money, dear people, all this will happen. A total of EUR 1 237 816 is in these positions, which, in addition to the President of Latvia, is necessary. A million over there, a million over there, another third million... And then we'll start talking about real money, about billions. This budget is being prepared in about this form. Another important detail. In the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, asking questions about all the following points, for which I have asked for a reduction in budget expenditure... I asked the question: why do we need it? No institution - neither the Presidential Chancellery nor all the future institutions on which I am going to talk about my proposals - was able to give a concrete answer to why they really need these extra resources. Nobody could explain their burning need for such huge increases in spending. Well, let's see the vote immediately, whether the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia will give the President a concert contest or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U531	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U532	Good evening! I just wanted to remind Members and also the public that we have just voted in this draft law on 10. - The proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers, based on the opinion expressed by the President of Latvia on the fact that currently, during the crisis, there would be no need for investment in purchasing movable property in Riga Castle, and therefore 184 thousand euros from the respective programme to 74 were re-allocated. ‘Unforeseen assets’. Therefore, to make it clear now and in the future: the next year's budget does not provide for funding for acquisition of movable property in Riga Castle. If so, then this proposal cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U533	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U534	Very respectful Head of the sitting! I just wanted to confirm what Mr Gobzem said. In the budget and financial (tax) commission, it is true that Mr Gobzem was not exclusive. There were other Members who tried to understand and obtain answers from the ministries, to seek justification for separate items in this budget or to criticise individual proposals. It really was. And here I would like to comment on Mr Feldman's comment. I also join and thank you very much: you made this debate more interesting and, in a way, something like a debate. Mr Gobzem did not just speak of a grand piano, referring to what you said. Mr Gobzem spoke of a much wider amount of expenditure. He talked about the entire amount of budget growth established for the President of Latvia, including not only movable property, but also garden arrangement, which also... If the grand piano was interesting, then also its gardening... If we analysed in more detail, there would already be questions for society about this, but unfortunately... we won't do it here, at least I won't. But for your approach, that you've done it now. You have not withdrawn it, you have raised it, and rightly you said to the “Unforeseeables” programme. It is the section of money from which without reservations, without any business plans, with nothing - more than 10 million euros for the Latvian Railway... Just like that. This is the section, the cash section, which just flies without any analysis, without any assessments. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission voted, coalition right away, Saeima... Contingency funds. How are they used in our country in recent years? A hundred million - airBaltic. I agree with the Members who, today, are, however, prepared for this Flemish money or some other money with their proposals - as a democratic country deserves... as members of the Saeima to direct their motions for a specific purpose, already in the debate. That is what my colleagues have offered. And that is the right approach. Mr Gobzem proposes that in this case, if we read his proposal... He, by nature, proposes that the public debt be extinguished with this money. Is this a topical issue today? I think it's very topical. We have borrowed more than ever. We have never borrowed billions of such volumes. Easy! We're spending whatever we want without any analysis. At the moment, what you said about the fact that we have ‘deposited’ the grande on the funds for unforeseen events does not give any guarantee that after some time this budget has been adopted, the grande can become an ‘unforeseen event’ as well. And suddenly someone may need it, because the old piano, I don't know, the keys will be worn out. Colleagues, however, I call on you to listen to what Mr Gobzem says, as well as Mr Dombrovskis. This debate is on the table. Even more, there would really be an explanation for other things. For a grandie... one is clear, thank you. Indeed, thank you, I really say that, Mr Feldman. You have explained this to the Flemish, but its other things have not already been explained either by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission or at present by the Saeima. As even the State Audit Office pointed out... The State Audit Office pointed out that the examination of the budget has been, well, difficult to understand, to put it mildly. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U535	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U536	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Dear colleagues, Well, here, unfortunately, Mr. Feldman is trying to mislead the public in the sense that... The first point. As a Member of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) I can assure you that the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) has not received any letters from the Presidential Chancellery, suggesting that he refuses to buy this famous grande for some reason. I haven't seen such a letter. If the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has indeed received such a letter but has not presented it to the Members of the Commission, then, of course, Martins Bondar, Chair of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, now has every opportunity to join this debate, to apply and to say that, no, such a letter has been received. Consequently, obviously this opinion of the President of Latvia, which Mr Feldman spoke about, has been expressed in some way informally. I know nothing about the official letter. There, of course, can be added: Mr Feldman has said that the reason the President of Latvia has related himself to the acquisition of a grand piano is that there is a pandemic and a crisis in the country. Of course, it can be added that, in my opinion, the situation with regard to the pandemic and the crisis between the first and second readings of the budget has not changed as far as I have observed when I live in our country. But there may be -- as to whom, of course, as to whom. The second point, where Mr. Feldman deceives the public, saying that, yes, it is true that we are... that at least the majority of the Saeima has decided to withdraw this funding in the amount of 180, almost 184 thousand euros for this priority event - the purchase of the concert flute for the Riga Castle Festival Hall - and to direct it to the programme “Unforeseeable products”... This, fellow Members, is only part of the truth, because here's colleague Viktor Valainis has made one point about what happened or could happen to unforeseen events of those means. But what has happened, colleagues, is quite simple. What has happened is the quotas of Members. We all remember very well that the interesting statement of the Minister for Finance that, here, the two million euro allocated to Members' quotas would have no impact on the country's fiscal position. And he said it because those two million were allocated from the same funds to unforeseen events. In other words, my fellow Members, where Mr Feldman, to say so, does not say the full truth about what has happened, it is that, thanks to this proposal No 10, now those 100... nearly 184 thousand euros originally allocated to the acquisition of the President's grand piano have moved straight to Members' quotas. Well, maybe Mr Feldman will be ready to tell us right now, to which Member's quota went the EUR 184 thousand, or it will remain such an amusing coalition secret. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U537	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U538	Madam President, Colleagues and colleagues! In fact, this proposal must probably be accompanied by a question, perhaps unpopular, by coalition Members, like all of us: what do we have to ask the President of Latvia? I do not think of personalism, I think that the President of Latvia is to a certain extent a symbol: a symbol of the state, a symbol of honesty, a symbol of spirituality, a symbol of the best hopes of the people and also a symbol of the advocates, a symbol of ethics. At the moment, in a situation where some people lose their jobs because several sectors cannot develop, or because they have decided to organise their lives differently; when the lack of teachers, the number of vacancies increases, has a certain impact on the quality of education; when the poverty rate has not fallen in Latvia - what does the President of Latvia do as a symbol? Ordering a grand piano, keeping a garden, wanting to show up at the summit and so on, not being an example of ethics and a symbol of ethics... solidarity with the people, solidarity with the people, would simply not require additional funds. No one - neither the 2022 budget nor the medium-term budget. It would be the President of Latvia. It would be a symbol of nation and also of ethics. Do we have such a president? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U539	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U540	With the musical instrument, I think everything is clear. As a member of the Committee on European Affairs, I am more interested in the three-seas initiative summit and the half a million euros it is intended for. I have not heard in any way that, in the context of European policy, this type of summit would be planned and that is important for national interests... The dose should I don't really understand that, and I'd very much like to, too, maybe... if no one else... If the President of Latvia has not responded to this proposal or has not justified it differently, maybe Mr. Feldman could explain it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U541	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U542	Good evening, everybody! I will answer a couple of questions and make the situation even more interesting about the budget, the Presidential Chancellery. So we will still have the opportunity to debate this Three-Sea Initiative Summit, because I have concrete proposals for this funding. But what I want to say is very interesting here. So, as has already been said, this expenditure position appears not only in the Presidential Chancellery, but also in the... at least I know another ministry in whose budget it appears. It is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I request the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, to comment, to respond to this planned funding. What is to be done about this? It turns out that, in my opinion, some 380 thousand, which is provided for in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, are basically intended to carry out all the organisational work linked to the organisation of the Three-Sea Initiative Summit. If the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been competent and has not deceived the Saeima, give its answer. This, in turn, means that this more than half a million, which is in the budget of the President's Chancellery... It is absolutely inconceivable how they are going to spend it. It would really be very interesting here... I think I would call on journalists if someone were to follow us, to look into what exactly about 560 thousand of the President's Registry will be spent... the forthcoming Three-Sea Initiative Summit. But the raisin in the whole story... If we return to the grand piano, the situation becomes even more interesting here. So while the debate took place, I opened up again and went through the documents submitted to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission carefully. I didn't find such a proposal from the Cabinet. I was looking at: there are a number of Members' proposals here, but I did not find this Cabinet of Ministers' proposal that this President's money should be shifted to unforeseen events, and this leads me to the conclusion that maybe... perhaps there was in fact no such proposal at all. And what we tried to do is this coalition of our "justice" is that, seeing that the opposition has put forward meaningful proposals to manage the money of this grand piano... In particular, I have also tabled a proposal for this Flemish money, which I think is very meaningful and very well-founded. Perhaps rightly support, that is, direct this money to migraine treatment, because these 184 thousand are about the sum of the people who had been asked for these headaches. At least 200,000 would be very good for us to start and help. Well, here, and then I think that there was an active search for how such an opposition proposal could be neutralised. Here I would ask you to apply for a coalition and tell you, and I also asked Mr Bondara to tell you, as rapporteur, where was this proposal from the Cabinet, because I did not find that in your committee documents. This means, perhaps, that we are talking about an illegal proposal and that we will still have to return to this vote. This was not justified because such a proposal had not been submitted to the Commission within the deadline. All these manipulations started after this deadline, when opposition proposals were received. Maybe I'm wrong. In that case, Mr Bondara, please tell me where this proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers came from and why it has not been registered. On the other hand, if it was registered, I would be happy to get to know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U543	Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U544	Dear colleagues, We hear about new, new and new events here... large, significant events, where people from many, many countries will fly among us. We will listen to interesting, long speeches, and there will be everything that comes from it, but I always remember our President's speech in Glasgow, where the COP26 summit ended as if it were, among other things, more than 40,000 participants from various countries who had arrived with hundreds of aircraft, knowing that aviation is the biggest emitter of the climate in the field of CO2. Our President of Latvia, among other things, quite recently bought the lightest BMW, not the lightest BMW, I am sorry - rented 125 854 euros and 86 cents, rented the largest BMW limousine with a diesel engine for three years. I want to say, colleagues, that many of these initiatives, which we are currently seeing in the budget, are absolutely not green and the President of Latvia is embodying this blindness absolutely, because words say that we have to think globally, act locally and individually. Here we see these individual expenditures and this individual action. These are absolutely ungreening initiatives, from which the Latvian economy will not benefit at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U545	The name of Member Ramona Petraviča. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U546	Good evening, honourable Speaker of the Saeima sitting and honourable colleagues! It is no surprise, now, that the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has not received a letter from it that the money of the grande is now being diverted to unforeseen funds. Most likely it was handled by a telephone call, it is already a common practice, even though the President of Latvia called Mr. Feldman and gave him the task of concealing grande money in funds for unforeseen cases, because... That's exactly what it's going to be, it's going to be a very unforeseen case, and the grande will be an urgent need and will be purchased by this or so. For setting up a garden. It would have been very nice if, at the time thousands of people gathered near Riga Castle, the garden gate had opened and the President of Latvia had come to speak to his people. And what about Latvia at the Three Seas Initiative Summit? For Latvia, which is a state that has prohibited elected members of the people from participating in the budget adoption process, which has prohibited elected members of the people from voting. Is that what the President of Latvia will come to the Three Seas Initiative Summit, with which you will be proud of, how will the name of Latvia be given? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U547	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr Bondar!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U548	On behalf of the Commission, first of all, I would like to respond to Mr Zarina that I cannot report on other proposals as rapporteur, only on 16. - Member Gobzem's proposal. Secondly, I would like to apologise to Mr Gobzem if, in some form and form, I have been inaccurate in reporting on how he has spoken about this at the Budget and Financial (Financial) Commission. I very much hope that, in his debate today, he was able to bring clarity to what is actually the case. Finally, proposal 16. The budget and financial (tax) commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-16-PT13-2323-U549	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - Member Gobzem's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, The Saeima Presidium has received the Member Jura Pūce, Krista Baumane, Gata Zamura, Mārtiņš Šteins and Viesturs Liepkalna with a request to declare a break at the Saeima's second remote extraordinary meeting of 15 November 2021, which we are looking at on 16 November, until 9 a.m. on 17 November. We must vote on this interruption. Please call me! To be put to the vote, no later than 9 a.m. on 17 November! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the sitting was suspended until 9 a.m. on November 17. Registration of the presence of Members. It's over. Interruption until tomorrow 9 a.m. Good evening! ( Interruption)
