ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U1	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! The second remote emergency sitting started on 31 May 2021. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Administrative Territories and Accommodations”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission on Territorial Reform, Member Juris Puce. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U2	The President of the sitting is very respectful. High honourable Members! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Let's work with bill No. 1090/Lp13 - Amendments to the Law on Administrative Territories and Accommodations. 25 proposals were submitted to the second reading committee. I am very grateful to those Members of the Saeima who have actively participated in the preparation of this draft law for the second reading. We have managed to discuss all these proposals and to formulate our approach to them. 1. - the proposal of Member Jurs Pūce, which excludes Article 6.1 of the law at first reading, or Article 1 of the draft law. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U3	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U4	Hello! The rapporteur for the committee responsible could already have explained in more detail what is being excluded by this Member's proposal, Jurs Pūce. In fact, the external norm is excluded, which was supported by the majority of the members of the Commission as early as Friday in accordance with the judgment of the Constitutional Court both with regard to the belonging of Skulte Parish and with regard to the complaint submitted by Varakļāni Municipality. The Constitutional Court decided that these territories should not be added to a particular county, because it does not meet the criteria... In particular, the criterion of a regional centre. In fact, the Constitutional Court said very clearly that the Saeima either has to change the criteria on the basis of which the regions are formed, or it is necessary to establish the status of the centre of regional importance for all those regions which... This is not the case at the moment, otherwise we will have to face a lot more changes in the map - a map that we have been discussing for a long time during this same parliamentary term. So: on Friday we voted in favour of the establishment of regional centres - both in Rēzekne municipality, in Augšdaugava district, as well as in Southern Kurzeme district, Jelgava district, Ventspils district, Saulkrasti district. Why did we vote like that? A question was asked to the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. After an analogous decision-making procedure, the Constitutional Court is likely to decide that Ozolnieki municipality and Ilūkste municipality must be separated... respectively, from Jelgava municipality and from Upper Daughdaugava municipality. What will these regions do? The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development is unable to explain what further action would be necessary, except that in general all the cities of the republic or, as is currently the case, the municipalities surrounding the cities should be connected to the state city. Then it does not become clear whether, for example, Ozolnieki novads, which the Constitutional Court will decide to disconnect from Jelgava municipality, then go to Jelgava city, or we will move it towards Riga. And also other possible changes that could still be on the map... And what will we do when new local councils are elected? Therefore, I really have a call on Members to vote against these submitted proposals by Juris Pūce, because this is actually the only and realistic way in which negative judgments of the Constitutional Court can be tried to prevent future judgments. And also the holding of re-sessions. I, too, would like to turn to... whether to the Group's Young Unity, to which the vote in the committee's sitting... At least one vote was in favour of identifying such regional centres... Why such a change of opinion? Do you really, for example, not like Ilūkste so much to vote against their interests? Do you really not like Ozolnieki so that you vote against them? Or South Kurzeme... do you think that you do not deserve your regional centre? I would also like in particular to address Members of the Group, who also have a very good view of these few days. diametrically changed. SASKAR usually likes to call the coalition ministers to explain their views; we would like to invite you to say in this debate what you have promised or... which was the critical moment for you to vote against regions where you even have a very respected representation, as in the case of Rezekne, for example. Why Have You Changed View? I also call on other groups, however, to vote against these proposals by Juris Pouce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U5	Name to Member Juris Rancan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U6	Hello, fellow Members, again! I would like to argue - just like Mr Dombrava has just done. I'd like to pay attention. So what do you really want this commission to do by making two such controversial moves? On Friday, the “for” vote - includes an article on regional development centres in the draft law (desirably wanting to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Court and seeking to prevent the accusation that there are not already established centres and therefore there is a problem such as the problem). And on Friday is accepted... Today we support it conceptually, but then suddenly we close it out. And if we close it out, then obviously the only thing that could then be done here from the judgment of the Constitutional Court - something that has not really been said. In particular, it does not make it clear that Varakļāni municipality is to be added to the district of Madona. It's not really said there. It has been said that it does not correspond to the fact that the municipality is now connected to Rēzekne municipality and is not appropriate because there are no development centres there. Here comes a kind of cheating on individual parties - as I see it, such a very cunning game: at first it is supported by... and does not support, then cut off this opportunity and remove the argument to the Constitutional Court... Colleagues! I call, however, for consistency and correction of these errors, the mistakes made by the Constitutional Court, referring to the absence of development centres. And keep the bill... And then... that we can also add Latgale... which is the novads of Varakļānu, Rēzekne and return this municipality to Latgale. Colleagues! I call for Mr Pouce's proposal to be rejected, whatever he would say in the future. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U7	Name to Member Juris Pucem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U8	Dear colleagues, Indeed, we also had a debate on this proposal at the committee meeting on Friday. And, I must say, I am completely consistent in this matter. I have already voted against this proposal at the committee's meeting on Friday, as it was included in the basic text of the draft law for the first reading in the Saeima. I already felt that this was not justified. In addition, both in the Friday meeting of the Commission and today's meeting of the committee responsible, representatives of the Bureau of Law took part, which directly and precisely pointed to the legal problems related to the adoption of this proposal. First of all, for that norm... Article 6.1 does not actually have legal load. Its legal burden is imaginable. Our colleague, Janis Dombrava, who prepared this proposal (and it appeared in the article), had his own reasoning, he said: if we, the Saeima, call regional and national development centres in law, then we will achieve that all regions, 42 regions, 42 municipalities, meet the criteria for administrative territorial reform, because the criteria refer to this one principle. However, I would remind you that this is not the only criterion that has been mentioned, and the Constitutional Court has assessed all the criteria in its judgments. And also - there is no one factor in the judgment on Varakļānai, which is why adding Varakļāni to Rēzekne municipality does not comply with the Satversme, in the view of the Constitutional Court. That's why it's... We're going, I think, on the wrong way. Moreover, nowhere is currently in Latvian law... elsewhere... there are no regional and national centres for development. It has no legal use. In fact, the only application is that law... an attempt to convince about the constitutionality of this law in those aspects that have already been discussed by the Constitutional Court, namely to act contrary to how the Constitutional Court decided on Friday. There is, in fact, no other consideration; perhaps there are political considerations behind it: to highlight some places and to show yourself as a certain settlement... However, the definitions referred to in this Article 6.1... And if we put it together with a possible annex 2 to the law, to which reference is made in paragraph 3 of this article, then actually that annex... the Annex does not correspond to the definitions in paragraphs 1 and 2. Regional development centres need advanced social infrastructure, cultural or industrial infrastructure and several of the settlements mentioned in this proposal... Annex 2 does not, in fact, correspond to this. And it turns out that by choosing a place, we would vote arbitrarily, contrary to the... the legal text. That, in my opinion, is unacceptable. For this reason, I have tabled this proposal. This proposal, which was supported at first reading, does not solve the problem of the judgment of the Constitutional Court, does not help the issue of the division of administrative territories, but creates a false feeling that we have acted in some way by circumventing... to find a way to circumvent the principles set by the Constitutional Court. Moreover, the Constitutional Court has in fact raised claims for good legislative practice with its judgment. In particular, it is required that, when accepting this type of... important decisions on who are then centres of national and regional development would be assessed by sound studies. We ourselves wrote in the same law in March that there is a task for the government - to prepare and offer a new evaluation, which is then regional centres of development in the future in Latvia - but at the same time we... It's three months, we don't like the judgment, we roll and record ourselves politically. In fact, this is a norm that will by no means help in any proceedings of the Constitutional Court that could take place in the future, but in itself is harmful from the point of view of adoption, creating false hopes for certain settlements and territories. The Saeima should not do this. I call for support for this proposal - just as the Commission did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U9	Name to Member Janis Dombrava for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U10	Yeah, thank you. It's a legal technique. In fact, from the two judgments of the Constitutional Court we see that the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and the experts of the Saeima have suffered fiasco. The Constitutional Court has decided that this reasoning, legal technique... the removal of criteria from the law has been an erroneous step - just as it has actually been an erroneous step for the Saeima, for its part... Neither by adjusting the National Development Plan, nor by adjusting the laws... not include in these newly created regions... in order to have a regional centre. That's a legal technique. The other thing is about research. It is enshrined in the law, it remains, and it will also serve as a further argument as to why these centres and not other centres could also be regional centres of potential importance. Finally, the non-compliance with these criteria. In fact, you have to understand a number of steps forward that Mr Pouce has not mentioned. Today Varakļāni is removed from Rēzekne municipality. Soon Ilūkste will be removed from the Upper District. After that, anyone will be able to submit a proposal to the Constitutional Court... the application that the novads of Augšdaugava itself and Rēzekne, together with the municipality of Viļāna, do not comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court, and then we will have to think where we will lay these regions. Well, it's likely that we'll have to join the next big cities. Do we want to add this territory - Rēzekne municipality and the former Daugavpils municipality together with Ilūkste municipality - to the major cities? Well, then, you're sure you can deny... i.e., vote safely in favour of this Pouce proposal! I will vote against.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U11	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so? Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U12	This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U13	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Juris Pouce's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, 34, against - 28, refrains. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U14	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It provided for clarification of Article 6.1 one section, but since Article 6.1 was excluded from the law today, just by the vote of the Saeima, then... This proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U15	Consequently, the proposal cannot be put to the vote. There is, however, room for debate on this. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U16	Making use of the opportunity - about the procedure. Perhaps the chair of the sitting could make sure that the New Conservative Group has not had problems with the Internet... in the previous vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U17	I closed the debate. Proposal 3 below. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U18	3. - Member Juris Pouce's proposal. This was supported by proposal 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U19	Consequently, a vote is required on this proposal, but since 1., this proposal is not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U20	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is a proposal for a legal technique, but it is not supported because the draft law did not change the annexes.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U21	We can also debate this proposal, but it cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U22	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is also a legal technique, but it was not supported as proposal 1 was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U23	Thank you. So Members have to agree to this. Here you go, please 6. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U24	6. - Mrs Regina Lochmele's proposal. It provides for a new wording of the transitional provision, which in fact lays down a different procedure for the municipalities to continue to operate in the relevant municipalities - Madona Municipality and Rezekne Municipality - after 1 July 2021. In particular, it provides for the continuation of municipal powers. In our commission, these proposals have been discussed in great detail, and they have been discussed on several occasions (I can't hear.) ... Also, the proposals in the second draft law that we are going to see today at the Saeima sitting and, as a result of the detailed discussions, this approach was not supported by the Commission, supported another approach, which also... will be visible in the next draft law. That is why this proposal, 6 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U25	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U26	Hello, colleagues! The Commission said that it was a proposal that was supported... In the commission, there is a compromise proposal and that its construction is successful and will ensure democratic elections in both Madona and Rezekne regions, in a situation where the Constitutional Court has rejected the previous decision of the Saeima, namely the decision regarding the inclusion of Varakļāni municipality in Rēzekne municipality. In analysing the situation that has arisen, we can only find one thing: with compromises, there is a road to political hell, because there can be no half-decision in democratic conditions. What is offered does not solve the basic problem, and the basic problem is that the municipality in question must be managed by those Members who have been legitimately elected by the citizens of the territory. My proposal provides for this possibility, as it provides for the extension of the mandate of the current, legitimately elected Members of the local government of Madona and Rezekne to the elections on 11 September. Another nuance that I have already spoken about today at the first extraordinary sitting of the Saeima, the circumstances of which I have clarified at the Administrative Commission on Territorial Reform. I asked the representatives of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development: do we, by electing Rēzekne Municipality Council and Madona Municipality Council on 11 September, not violate the law, which states that the term of office of municipal members is four years? I was told that if today the Saeima will vote in favour of this and another law, then - no. This means that, at the moment, the very proposal - to reduce, shorten the term of office of municipal members - is not in line with the current law. It will be legitimate only when you vote for it. But think, please, of what do you do with the foundations of democracy in our country in this case? The reform was hasty, I have already mentioned it, and that is why, Mr Dombrava, WELFARE comes to every letter - both in this draft law and in the draft law that we will vote on afterwards, we analyse every letter. With regard to conspiracy and with regard to the foundations of democracy, but above all with regard to the interests of citizens, so that politics does not violate citizens' rights, so that politicians do not violate the right of the people of Madona and Rezekne to decide their own destiny. I ask Members to support my proposal because only this proposal will ensure legitimacy in municipal elections in 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U27	I closed the debate. For the Commission, Mr. Pouce... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U28	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U29	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Mrs. Regina Lochmele's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 19, for - 57, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U30	7. - the proposal by Member Viktoras Valaiņš, which also provides for one alternative model for organising management between 1 July and 1 October in the district of Madona and in the municipality of Rezekne. After a long discussion, we chose a different model within the Commission, which we will vote on in the second draft law under consideration today. This proposal, the seventh, was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U31	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U32	8 / 8 - the proposal by Member Regina Lochmele relating to proposal 6. This provides for the exclusion of the provision of transitional provisions contained in the draft law, which provides for the establishment of a temporary administration. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U33	Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - Mrs. Regina Lochmele's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 16, for - 56, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U34	9. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It is intended to complement the transitional provisions with a new rule, which is in substance part of its alternative management model... of the option considered 7. - Mr Valina's proposal. As I have already reported on the 7th proposal, the Commission has chosen another model on which we will be able to vote in the next draft law. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U35	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U36	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - That's Mr. Butan's proposal. This is linked to proposals 16 and 17 concerning the division of the three administrative units of the existing Varakļāni district between Madona Municipality and Rezekne Municipality. It also provides for clarification... in this, 10, proposal... a transitional provision in order to provide for reallocation of assets, financial and other liabilities. This set of proposals was discussed at the commission meeting and was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U37	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Butan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U38	Welcome again, colleagues. I have already argued my proposal in part at the first reading of the draft law, but I would remind you once again that this proposal, which also relates to other my proposals, provides for the partial implementation of the decision of the Constitutional Court, adding Murmastiene parish to Madona municipality and allowing Varakļānai and Varakļānu parish to be included in Rēzekne municipality and not in Madona municipality. It is obvious that Varakļānai and Varakļānu parish have several advantages in Rēzekne municipality than in Madona municipality, because both jobs, services and traffic - everything is ensured better in Rēzekne municipality... Specifically, in the National Development Centre in Rezekne... than at the regional development centre in Madona. In addition, similar services - even better than in Madona - are in the city of Jēkabpils. And the city of Jēkabpils... the distance of the city is similar to that of the city of Madona. At the same time, I would like to say that whatever decision we make... not the law determines where citizens will go tomorrow, where they will want to receive services and where they will go to work... it will still be the center of development... like Rēzekne or Jēkabpils, where Varakļāni people are better to go... not Madona. In particular, Madona, Madona novads Varakļānai... more could be beneficial for members of the local government, who obviously already have an introduction to how to stand up and what they could do after the elections... not directly to the development of business or economic activity in the Varakļāni district. So if we accept this my proposal... It will not be unique, because Varakļānu region will be divided into two parts: Murmastiene parish will go to Madona, and Varakļānu part - to Rēzekne. Similar cases are already provided for by law. For example, for the city of Wangazi - Inčukalns... It is also decided to re-allocate the borders in Garkalne municipality, where part of the territory is planned to be added to Ādazi municipality in the future. So I am calling for my proposal to be supported. And then, accordingly, one of my next proposals should also be supported in support of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U39	Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U40	Yes, I would like to support this proposal, but now... Similarly, the new conservative Internet connection of the Group has not yet been explained. I understand, too, that I sometimes get red on the Internet, but now it's the fact that almost the whole group is losing contact. This, in my opinion, is such a very critical case. In this case, I do not even understand how Mr Bhutan can talk about this proposal if proposal 1 in its entirety is supported, because... In fact, despite the fact that a majority of MEPs will now vote in favour of this proposal, the Constitutional Court... If such a claim will be submitted in relation to another configuration of Rēzekne municipality, the Constitutional Court will decide identically, because the circumstances have not changed. These circumstances were such that there was no regional centre and also a centre of national importance in Rezekne municipality. This was the fact that the Constitutional Court decided that Varakļānu novads - as a whole region - should not be added to Rēzekne municipality. Even if we attach one parish, the Constitutional Court will decide identically. If you really have now managed to restore Internet connections... There is such an opportunity in the Saeima - to write an application that, due to technical problems, you were not able to take part in the vote. It seems that 10 Members had to collect signatures. And you can ask for a repeat vote on proposal 1. Only at that moment actually, well, is... Greater chance remains... Even if we support the Saeima today that part of Varakļāni Municipality joins Rēzekne Municipality... that it will not be possible to challenge this decision in the Constitutional Court afterwards. I will vote in favour and call on others to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U41	Name to Member Janis Butan for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U42	In a way, Janis Dombravs - about development centres - is right, but at the same time we have to agree with Juris Puces that development centres are not... does not mean that if the law states that a particular place is the centre of development, that is the case. Because the development centre as such actually comes with certain criteria - not only the population, but also services, jobs and economic activity. If we look at such a general section of Latvia, then we... As many centres of development in Latvia as possible, and regardless of what we are entering into the law, it will not become more or less because human activity is what it is, we cannot change it by law. Therefore, already at the beginning of the law, the norm on Rezekne was incorporated - that Rezekne cooperates with Rezekne municipality. That's why it's the order in the law, not the other way... Well, it has to be asked by the drafters of the law - why the original version of the law provided for such a procedure. Of course, if Rēzekne were to be with Rēzekne Municipality, then there would be no such question, because Rēzekne would be this development centre in the region. But now, since this is the law, I agree with its original version: that the city of Rezekne cooperates with the municipality of Rezekne... the same as in other regions, because when you record that a village is the center of development... This will not be the case; it can be an administrative centre, but not a development centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U43	Name to Member Juris Pucem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U44	Dear colleagues, I will ask, however, not to support this Member's proposal from Bhutan, as well as the proposals 16 and 17 which he has tabled. That is, of course, very controversial... And in general, is it meaningful - to divide the existing Varakļāni municipality, to separate Murmastienes parish from Varakļānu parish and Varakļānu city? Perhaps there are some circumstances that can be assessed. So, whatever our sympathys or prejudices towards the Constitutional Court and its judgments, there is also the European Charter of Local and Regional Authorities, which sets out the process by which such decisions are to be taken. If such a proposal is considered, it must be discussed with the local authority concerned, their views requested, reasonable time allowed, and their expression allowed. It's absolutely impossible if out of order... an urgent draft law that is being examined one day... In general, it was not technically possible to do this today, because we received that proposal, as you know, today about one or two, and we are already voting on it at the Saeima sitting. This was the timetable set by the need to adopt these amendments to the law today and it was not possible to do so in the normal procedure. In any case, such a norm, by which we decide that we divide a municipality and divide it between other municipalities, has not been discussed with that municipality... and such a proposal was not discussed either when the original Law on Administrative Areas and settlements was drafted... either second or third readings. So we can't... We do not know what the municipality thinks about it. Such a decision would not be in line with the European Charter of Local and Regional Authorities and as such could be challenged and annulled by the Constitutional Court. I call for this proposal not to be supported, nor for successive proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U45	I closed the debate. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - MEP John Butan's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U46	11. - Mrs Regina Lochmele's proposal. This specifies the deadline to be met by 2021... consolidation of the municipal budget for the financial year in the municipalities of Madona and Rēzekne. It is foreseen that after 1 October 2021... This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U47	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U48	However, I will ask you, fellow Members, to support my proposal, despite the fact that the proposal which forms the basis for this proposal was not supported. This proposal deals with the possibility in advance... adopt and approve the district budget for the legitimately elected members of the Council. I would like to highlight one very important nuance here. When we debated in the Commission the possibility of taking on board the concept that I had drawn up and the proposal, the substance of which was to extend the mandate of the existing Members until the 11 September elections, it was said that yes, it was possible; that the option that corresponds to my concept was considered. But why wasn't it supported? That is very interesting. The representative of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development said that supporting my proposal would lead to additional costs for the introduction of changes in information systems and some additional costs. It would still have been necessary to introduce amendments to certain laws in order to bring this into line. That means just one thing: that what we are doing at the moment in support of this construction, a political structure called a compromise when we build temporary administrations, but... not from officials, but from the chairmen of existing municipal councils... It has only one excuse - the convenience of officials. If the previous administrative territorial reform was generally hasty, then what we are doing at the moment - not only hasty, it is poor quality, it has very far-reaching consequences, and the echo from today's decisions will be not only in Latgale, but not only in Vidzeme, which we seem to care about here, each one according to the region of our constituents, but in general - throughout the country. Because such nuances also consist of quality legislation and democracy in general. Please support my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U49	Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U50	Yeah, thank you. I do not understand whether we have any objective technical problems in the Saeima when the political groups turn off the Internet, or whether the new conservative group divides the Internet with the political group SASKY somehow and then turn off each other, then turn off the other, or this is some agreed match with another third player. Maybe you could dispel your concerns? Otherwise, it seems quite strange that suddenly whole groups do not take part in the vote. And if we all did, then we simply could not accept the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U51	The name of Member Regina Lochmele for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U52	In response operationally to what the alarmer, Mr Dombrava, has said, I can only assure you that Members of the Group are voting in line with what the Group has decided. The only thing I would like to point out - and this is also a sign of the quality of our work - was that, almost an hour ago, we had a meeting of the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission, where we worked according to the table of proposals on which I worked and in which I shared with colleagues, but now, at the start of the sitting, it is found that the numbering of the proposals in the table has changed considerably. Given that we are working at a distance and only a few seconds are allowed to vote, and given that there is a parliament (and I can confirm this - there are indeed some rooms!) very big problems with the Internet, the quality of all our work can be questioned today, that is what I guarantee you. Thank you, Mr. Dombrava, for raising the alarm, but... I do not know if there is anyone in this house who can check this and, in particular, cancel the previous votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U53	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so? Please, Mr. Pouce!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U54	Indeed, Mrs Ločmel has to agree: after the meeting of the Commission, the order of certain proposals has been changed to make it more precise... after the vote... could organise the next vote, and this took place in a version agreed with the Parliament's Legal Office, so that the Saeima Members would vote more precisely and so that they would vote... affect future votes. And this is a practice - it is nothing unusual, very often in urgent draft laws, this situation is happening. If that makes me uncomfortable, I can apologize on behalf of the commission. It is objective in such an urgent process of examination of draft laws. But the specific proposal, 11, was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U55	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - Mrs. Regina Lochmele's proposal! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 18, it's against - 55, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U56	12. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. This provides for the same point of the transitional provision to be made in a different wording, which would reflect the management solution proposed by Member Viktors Valainis, but the Commission chose another management solution, which is the second draft law we will look at today. Therefore, this proposal, 12, was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U57	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U58	13. - That's Mr Dombrava's proposal. It is intended to supplement the transitional provisions with a new point at which the municipality of Limbažu may approve the plan for the division of Skulte parish by 31 December 2023 and, after the approval of this plan, send it to the municipality of Saulkrasti in order to assess it and decide on its possible... the territory of the municipality... modification of the borders. This proposal was examined by the Commission and was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U59	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U60	Yeah, thank you. I call for support for this proposal, which is rather technical. I understand very well that, of course, in a situation where regional centres have not been supported, such a proposal will most probably not get the support of the majority of the Saeima, but I was not too sad because we will return to the same law in about two or three weeks' time, when we will decide what to do with Ilūkste Municipality and Ozolnieki Municipality, which will be divided accordingly - from Jelgava Municipality and Upper Daugsdava District. And the district of Augšdaugava will in fact cease to exist as the municipality of Augšdaugava, because it will be the old municipality of Daugavpils. That is why I will not be much sad if the majority of the Saeima rejects this proposal at the moment, because anyway, in two or three weeks' time we will return to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U61	Name of Member Evia Papulei. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U62	Thank you. Madam President, Colleagues! Mr Dombrava, I want to ask you one question - has the Constitutional Court already decided about Ilūksti? And you know the result? And the other. On the one hand, I can assure you of your insistence on Skulti, but you will not want to remind you again and again of all the things that were in the debate on the regional... on administrative territorial reform. Let the Limbaži work and let the Limbaži develop! Limps need time and support, not continuous mooting with possible changes to already made decisions and continued intimidation. Let the Limbaži, i.e. the averages, work peacefully and build up their own perspective in the new, relatively new, boundaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U63	Name to Member Janis Butan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U64	In turn, I would like to express my support for Janis Dombrava and say that either, perhaps I do not know, Evija Papule has not been in Saulkrasti or Zvejniek village, but in fact Skulte has grown up together with Zvejniek village, and that is one whole thing - there are common engineering communications, common streets, Skulte residents are visiting mostly the places of Saulkrasti and Zvejniek village services, educational institutions, going to rest on the Saulkrauts. The proposal is therefore somewhat similar to the one introduced in the law for the revision of the border between Garkalne and Adazi. And in the future it would be only logical if this border was revised so that it would simply be easier to manage the territory, because it is clear that the Limbaži municipality would not be logical to take care of the infrastructure, which is the infrastructure of the city of Saulkrasti. It would be more logical for the city of Saulkrasti to take over this infrastructure and take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U65	Name to Member Janis Dombrava for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U66	Mr Bhutan made these rational arguments very precise in relation to this proposal, and that is why they will not be repeated. These areas have grown together and we need to think about how to manage them more effectively. They must not be part of two municipalities, but must be part of the same municipality. But with regard to the judgment of the Constitutional Court - of course I do not know how the Constitutional Court will decide, but I am quite sure that this judgment will be identical to that of Varaklani, because its reasoning in written procedure could not really be different. No, no, no! - no rational argument why the Constitutional Court would suddenly adopt contradictory decisions. It is most likely that following this judgment, which was adopted on Friday, there will also be identical decisions in these cases that adding the municipality to the municipality, where there is no regional or national importance development centre, and which is not the province of Pierīga, is not in compliance with the Satversme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U67	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U68	Dear colleagues, I am listening with interest to this debate and cannot refrain from asking questions about regions that have grown together. If, for example, I live in Garkalne district (now for now in Garkalne district) and often go to Saulkrasti, does that mean that Garkalne has grown up along with Saulkrasti? Since the inhabitants of Riga go often to rest in Jurmala, these two regions have grown together? Then, in principle, there are also some common streets, which start in Riga and then continue on to Saulkrasti. How are you looking? In this way, we can make quite a merger, colleagues! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U69	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U70	Colleagues, this proposal was discussed in the Commission. Given that this draft law, with a very high degree of urgency, is being directed in a completely different context, we did not have a very long debate on this issue. But it should be remembered that it was this proposal that we dealt with in March this year when we decided on the membership of Skulte Parish, and it was rejected. This time, too, the Commission rejected this.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U71	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - MEP John Dombrava's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U72	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Ivars Zarins' proposal. It is planned to supplement the transitional provisions with the paragraph that in the future, the inclusion of the administrative unit of the municipality in another district is decided by voting of the population. At the Commission's sitting, we also heard the opinion of the Legal Bureau. Having regard to the fact that the regulations of voting of the population in municipalities have not been approved in the Saeima and the... There is no order, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U73	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U74	Colleagues, I would call on all those who understand what farce is this ongoing Saeima sitting and all that is happening around it, including the decision of the Constitutional Court. If we want to leave Latvia's society the least hope for the rule of law and democracy in our country, then we need to think about how to comply with this decision of the Constitutional Court, no matter how politically it is. At the same time, however, we can find an opportunity to leave this opportunity to the people - to decide for themselves, to decide and to choose regardless of what will have been schemed in political transactions for those to whom the people may have given this opportunity by misunderstanding. My proposal is very simple. In my opinion, this is a rational and successful way out of the current situation, namely that we provide an opportunity for the specific territorial unit of the municipality to decide where it wants to belong. Even the same story about Varakļāns - whether they want to be at Madona or at Rezekne. In my opinion, what is a little confused, which the rapporteur mixed... This is about municipal referendums. Indeed, such a law has not yet been adopted, but, as I understand it, it will be adopted as soon as possible. I don't think that any other law does not provide for any possibility that we can't predict it in this bill, all the more if we talk about an opportunity... on the voting of the people as an instrument. Then, what problems we have to anticipate here in the bill, that this matter, specifically where this territorial unit belongs, can be decided by the citizens themselves. Well, if we can't even agree on this, and even if we believe that the people have no right to decide and that we will be those who know better how to do all this, and the people, keep quiet, then I think it is absolutely not democratic. Therefore, my proposal would be, colleagues, that we support it, because it is a way out. It is the way out of this farce and also the moment of truth that we can thus bring, because we are being manipulated to be told that the people, you see, wanted it. It was in principle one of the main arguments of the Constitutional Court why they took their decision on the basis of the will expressed by the people. Now, here in the draft law, we can foresee this opportunity and really find out, not in a manipulative poll, which can be carried out in such a way as to achieve the required result, but indeed in the whole population... giving them an opportunity to express this will. My proposal is to support this... I therefore call for support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U75	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U76	In the Commission, proposal 14 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U77	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - Member Ivars Zarins's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U78	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from Members Teirumnieks, Kursītes, Kursītes-Pakules, Rancana, Kazinovska and Tutina. This implies excluding from the draft annex... Thus, in point 26, namely to exclude from the district of Madona the municipality of Murmasteene, the municipality of Varakļānu and the city of Varakļāni from that of Varakļāni. It is related to 19. - the proposal put forward by the same Members to reintegrate the Murmastienes parish, the Varakļānu parish and the Varakļānu city as part of the Rēzekne municipality. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U79	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Edmund Teirumonis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U80	Hello, fellow Members, again! I would like to return to the judgment of the Constitutional Court, as well as to the opinion of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, which states that the inclusion of Varakļāni municipality in the newly created Rēzekne municipality is not compatible with the aim of promoting the economic development of the territory of Varakļāni municipality and more efficient access to public services for citizens. In fact, here we are talking about the fact that, according to the system currently in Rēzekne County... that there are associations of these parishes, where residents can express their wish, and they work in such a form of consultation, which would be useful if Rēzekne municipality were to come to Viļānu novads and also Varakļānu novads, where, in the past, municipal leaders and members, working on strategic documents, on cooperation issues, decided that these four parish associations were to come to two – Varakļāni and also the Viļāni Association. Unfortunately, it now seems that this will not happen. Although we are looking at what might be in Madona, we understand that in Madona the Varaklan people are not provided with such wider decision-making and advisory functions at the moment. The fact that, from this point of view, the loser will be the Varakļāni citizen. Colleagues, in any case, please ask us to support and vote in favour of both this, 15 and 19 accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U81	Name to Member Juris Rancan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U82	Good evening, you can already say, honourable colleagues! I call for support for this proposal, and I would particularly like to emphasise that with this proposal and also with the 19th proposal we are preventing a very long history of injustice and giving administration to Latgale's historic municipality. This is very important. We can name the economic benefits and development benefits of the protocol here. I will do this specifically right away, I will list it very briefly, so that the Constitutional Court could not say that they did not sound like that, although we see from the judgment that in the past... we see from the judgment that this is not assessed, even though such arguments have been expressed. We can repeat that Varaklani will have better economic development in Rezekne district, because: firstly, there is an economic zone in Latgale, which means different reliefs for entrepreneurs; secondly, better infrastructure to Rezekne; thirdly, many of Varaklani people work in Rezekne and Viļāni; fourthly, there are many more universities and institutions in Rezekne. These are rational, but as I said earlier, they are not the main arguments. I call on you not to give up today Article 3 of the Satversme, Article 3 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of 1918. And I invite you to realize that Latgale is Latgale, Kurzeme is Kurzeme, Vidzeme is Vidzeme. Let the Latgalians manage their lands for themselves. Therefore, my fellow Members, I am calling for the 'yes' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U83	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U84	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I wanted to speak on this matter at first reading, unfortunately there was no such opportunity today, so I will be speaking on this proposal. This question, of course, is not just about Varaclanes, or it is not so much about Varaclanes. This is a question of Latgale. And I understand very well, I think, the pain of many Latgale residents, seeing that the people of Varaklani want to join another district, another region. This is, of course, painful for them, and this is likely to happen today. But we cannot, colleagues, also notice the will of the Varaklani people, their will, and, as we know, in the poll that we are discussing here (I remember very well, we also discussed this at the time of the administrative territorial reform), more than 80, if I am not mistaken, 84, of the Varaklani people who participated in that survey expressed their desire to join the district of Madona. And to ignore this, of course, colleagues cannot. I understand very well, as I said, the Latgalian pain, because it is a story, colleagues, about the stigmatized Latgale. The fact that its stigmatisation, the stigmatisation of Latgale, is obviously so great that even the inhabitants of this separate region believe that if they belong at least formally to another region, their life, the welfare of Varakļāni municipality will be greater. Just if they don't count in Latgale. And, of course, it can't hurt Latgale, it can't remind us of what happens to Latgale. Colleagues, what has been happening with Latgale for many years - and we are talking about both the level of economic development and the reduction in the population - is happening, colleagues, and there are some very concrete steps from this government to tackle its problems. I could, of course, speak for quite a long time and a long time on these issues, but in view of this, colleagues, how actively the new conservative party is in favour of the Varaklani being left with Latgale, and given that it is this party that is responsible for two ministries, which are the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Education and Science, I would like to ask the Members of this Group two questions today - then what have you done to Latgale, colleagues in general? What have you also done within the framework of this government and this government to ensure that what is happening with Latgale does not continue? Was it not your party minister who, for example, wanted to remove the university sign from Latgale University? Was that not the case? What do you think would be the effect of this both for Daugavpils and for the whole of Latgale? And then I can't forget that today many Members of the New Conservative Party are sharing social networks with records that, behold, in the Czech Republic, the Schkod Vagonka factory is starting to produce new electric trains. Do you know colleagues that, for example, in the same Latgale, Daugavpils, there are factories, there are, for example, the “Daugavpils Locomotive Repair Plant”, which once worked for four thousand people. I was there Friday. Now it works in salt more than six hundred. And these people are also shocking from what could now happen to Belarusian cargo, which accounts for a third of turnover. Why those trains could not somehow be made with us... in the same Daugavpils? What have you done to achieve this in order to move in that direction? Therefore, I, my fellow Members, would really ask you better to ask yourself this question: what have you done to Latgale while in the government, so that neither the Varaklani nor the others would want to withdraw from it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U85	The name to Member Juris Rancan for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U86	Colleagues, before this very important vote, I just wanted to add that justice is not a social construction. A conscience is not a social construction. We expect justice to have come from the Constitutional Court, unfortunately we did not expect it. But I call on us, all Members, to remain just. This is a much-needed quality. I also invite you to follow your conscience. These are not stretchable concepts. Society, including Latgale, very well understands what is right and what is not. And all those legal penteres, as I said before, don't tell people much because justice is one. I therefore call on you to vote again in favour of this proposal, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U87	The name to Member Edmund Teirumnieks for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U88	Colleagues, however, I would like to return to the survey that is so often called - about this choice for the people of Varakļāni to go towards Vidzeme or Madona. But if we look at a little more important and deeper in the process, as has been ensured, we see that the exit period is three days, three days with very minimal dissemination of information, persuasiveness, reasonableness and so on, for those who are not involved in this survey, or for those people who are outside the Varakļāni municipality. In fact, by already ordering the municipality to carry out this survey, we were immediately able to say and know close to one hundred percent that the result was expected, and perhaps, by nature, we should not even have started and played this theatre. If we look at the people who have the right to vote, it is 2693 who could be involved in this poll at that time. The survey included 1108 signs, 1107 marks. As a result, slightly more than 41 percent of those entitled to vote participated in the survey. The aid for joining Madona Municipality is 933 persons. In fact, we are talking about a total number of 34.65 per cent of the total population with the right to vote. So talk about it's massive... and the 84 percent that are being called - well, to put it mildly, the provision of false information, generally speaking of the population living in this region.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U89	Name to Member Juris Pucem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U90	Dear colleagues, I very much understand the emotional mood of one of the Members of the Saeima, who, in fact, for the second or third time sees the situation with regard to this Varaklani proposal (in fact, for the third time, both for second and third reading), and see such a significant political resolution there about a year ago, when the Law on Administrative Areas and Accommodations was adopted. This time it turns out that they, the same people who worked hard to achieve this result, must vote the opposite. And how can it be, and how can such a situation have developed, and there is also a certain phase of denial that is objective in such situations. However, I would simply ask you, my fellow Members, to take into account the fact that the 15th and the 19th successive motion actually coincides with the Saeima's vote on it to say that - it is nothing that the Constitutional Court has made such a judgment, but we nevertheless maintain this view, as we say, to ourselves, but let us make a decision contrary to what... on the contrary to how the Constitutional Court has decided. The Constitutional Court has not made this judgment unthinkingly or... I understand that colleagues may have different views, but the judgment is very detailed, with a very serious analysis of the circumstances. And its approach, of course, is one that perhaps we did not consider together in spring 2020 and we did not count on it, but here, in fact, new, high demands are made on Parliament in its work. However, I would urge you not to come to a situation where two constitutional institutions - the Saeima and the Constitutional Court - consciously go to taking a decision contrary to each other, in this case, the Saeima demonstrated by their decision that the control of the Constitutional Court over its work is, well, erroneous in substance. But I would remind you that it is a Constitution that grants such a right to the Constitutional Court, and it is our duty to observe the Constitution and in this case to act in such a way that the judgment of the Constitutional Court is enforced, rather than to avoid its execution. Everyone working in Latvia, in the legal state – not only public but also private – must comply with the law and comply with the right of the judiciary to take decisions. This specific proposal contains a great deal of emotionality, and I know how emotional it is perceived and evaluated in Latvia, especially in Latgale, especially in the Varaklani, of course, and I call on us today to ignore this personal emotionality, but to take this decision on the basis of our care for the stability of the long-term democratic system in Latvia, on how constitutional institutions cooperate with each other and on how we achieve increasingly better decisions. I call for the 'no' proposal 15 to be voted and I also call for the 'no' proposal 19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U91	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U92	Dear colleagues, I would like to oppose a colleague, Mr Teirumnieks, who claims that the survey that took place in Varaklani is not... that it cannot be considered legitimate if I properly perceive that argument because only a small part of the voting-right people had participated in it and that perhaps not everyone had been aware of it. Here's Mr. Teirumnieks, first point. Then the ruling coalition should have insisted that such surveys should take place in all regions, and maybe they should have been organised either by the Central Electoral Commission or something else in order for us to have the results of one standard survey of citizens of one quality, because we now have a situation where the Constitutional Court takes a decision on the basis of this survey, and then the fact that such surveys have not taken place in other regions, either, actually puts the whole reform under question as such, because we do not know what the opinion of the citizens in several other regions was. Second. Regarding their legitimacy. Well, then we heard that from Mr. Rancán at the time. That is the argument: if only 35 percent of all the violent people voted for joining Madona, then you say that it is not legitimate. Well, if we count it in exactly the same way as the Saeima elections, colleagues, only 31 percent of the citizens with the right to vote voted for the parties that now form the ruling coalition. Well, then it turns out that this is also not legitimate for your coalition, and it has no majority of the citizens with the right to vote if we use... if we apply the same methodology to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U93	Thank you. Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U94	Dear colleagues, I do not want to agree with a number of such statements, especially Juris Pucem. Yes, the Constitutional Court took a decision. But it does not mean that it will automatically be the way the Constitutional Court wrote, so it was not necessary for the Saeima to look at this issue, but, you see, it is not. The Saeima Judgement of the Constitutional Court and... Consider, analyse this argument again and take appropriate action. The final name is said by the Saeima, because the Saeima is a legislator and Members are represented from all residents living in Latvia. I think that if they accept these proposals, they vote and leave them valid, let us say that the Varakļāni will remain in Rezekne, it will be the end result, or otherwise, so Members will vote and more or less the opinion of all Latvian citizens. The Constitutional Court may decide, however, its final name does not belong to this case in relation to legislation. That is why I will also call on all the others, especially those who have already voted in favour of adding the Varakļāni to Rezekne, to vote again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U95	Name of Member Evia Papulei. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U96	Madam President, colleagues. Mr. Kazinovsky, you called a little bit here to amaze me... at least in person. First of all, because you question the decision of the Constitutional Court as a legal institution, and this is essentially a question of the rule of law, including members of the Saeima, because we are not lawyers, although we represent the legislator, we have an important opinion of professionals, even if the decisions of the Saeima are reviewed. It also seems that independent Members would not be relative to those who, to be honest, could even question the rule of law in Latvia, even if this is what it looks like at the moment. Your second statement really made such an objective surprise. You said that the Saeima represents all, in fact all the voters, because the Saeima includes all... all are elected, they are now all represented. You have not noticed that there is a coalition and opposition and 13. There are currently a very large proportion of independent Members in the Saeima? Please say, what right does a coalition give to the opposition and to the independent Members in its current influence, in its decisions, except for voting as such? Mr Kazinovsky, and that is what you are saying right now, saying two controversial things - so questioning the rule of law, including the decision of an independent institution... and they are lawyers also with education and not just with life experience. And the other, to some extent hypocritically, is that all 100 Members are really able to influence something and are really able to represent the voters who voted in favour of them in a real, strong way. When Members are in opposition or at that time... What is perhaps a relatively new phenomenon 13. In the family, they are independent Members. Does it seem that the coalition should not look a bit differently, more realistic about the current situation and really think about how all 100 Members can be equally fulfilled... and represent their voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U97	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U98	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! See, I think, when the Constitutional Court decides... the judgment must then have arguments which fully satisfy, including Members. In my previous speech at the first extraordinary sitting, I said that these criteria, as well as other arguments, are not now put forward as convincing arguments in the judgment of the Constitutional Court, therefore it is possible to question the judgment of the Constitutional Court. Nobody is always true and fair, and often people are wrong, wherever they are, whether in the Constitutional Court as judges or elsewhere. Therefore, I believe that in the question of Varaclanes, this argument is in favour of adding to Rezekne municipality that it is part of Latgale, referring also to the relevant articles of the Satversme, for example, Article 3... I do not see the problem here; Members could vote today and take a decision accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U99	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Pouce... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U100	In the Commission, proposal 15 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U101	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 15. - An offer from Members Teirumnieks, Courses, Courses-Pakules, Rancāns, Kazinovska and Tutina! Please, let's vote! For - 46, for - 35, for - 2. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U102	16. - That's Mr. Butan's proposal. It was not supported by the Commission, but by the support of the 15th proposal in due course.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U103	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U104	17. - That's Mr. Butan's proposal. It does not seem to be put to the vote either, as proposal 15 has been supported. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U105	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U106	18. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Legal technique. This was not supported by the Commission because proposal 1 was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U107	Consequently, no vote can be taken.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U108	No vote, yes. 19. - a proposal from Members Teirumnieks, Kursītes, Kursītes-Pakules, Rancana, Kazinovska and Tutina. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U109	Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - An offer from Members Teirumnieks, Courses, Courses-Pakules, Rancāns, Kazinovska and Tutina! Please, let's vote! For - 45, for - 33, for - 4. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U110	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Juris Pouce's proposal. It is envisaged to exclude Annex 2 to the draft law. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U111	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Mr. Dombrava, will you have enough three minutes? Because we have a break in front of us.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U112	That's enough, yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U113	Thank you. Please name Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U114	Thank you. I think I can congratulate the members of the Latgale Sub-Commission on previous votes, but now perhaps there will be problems and shortcomings from a legal point of view. But I really call on you to support this... more precisely, reject this proposal by Mr Pūce and retain in law the annex, which defines the centre of regional importance, including in the county of Rēzekne. If this is not done and the Saeima will make an adjustment that is absolutely identical to the situation before the Constitutional Court judgment, I think that there we can live there in legally sufficiently heavy consequences. Therefore, in view of the fact that there are all parties that stand as candidates in both Southern Kurzeme and Saulkrasti, Rēzekne and Upperdaugava and Jelgava Districts, the request to vote 'no' - to vote 'no'! - this proposal for the law to maintain regional centres in these regions. It could also serve as a basis for no further adjustments to the municipality of Rezekne. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U115	I closed the debate. What do you say on behalf of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U116	Yes, the 20th proposal relates to proposal 1, which was supported, was also supported at the meeting, and it relates to the listing of national, regional centres. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U117	20 was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U118	I'm very... was supported, yes, I'm sorry, I was wrong.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U119	Yes, they were supported. Please have the vote requested. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 20. - Member Poece's proposal! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 38, against - 25, abstaining. The proposal is supported. Dear colleagues, It's time for a break. We will continue the sitting after a 20-minute break. So the sitting will resume at 19.00. Registration of Members' presence. It's over. Interruption until 7 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U120	Dear colleagues, The break is extended for another 15 minutes. So it's a break until 19.15. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U121	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting. The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Administrative Territories and Residents” is on the agenda. Draft law is declared urgent, second, final, reading. Member Juris Puce, on behalf of the commission responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U122	Dear colleagues, taking into account the votes on the draft law's proposals... for the proposals submitted to the second reading in accordance with the parliamentary roll of order, it is clear that there are, in fact, differences between the proposals supported and, on behalf of the committee responsible, I call for this draft law to be returned to the committee so that these contradictions can be avoided before the final reading and the vote on the draft law at final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-31-PT13-2262-U123	Colleagues, we must therefore vote in favour of returning the draft law to the commission responsible, as requested by the chairman of the commission. At the same time, I have also informed you that Members of Golubeva, Čakša, Zamur, Voika and Bikše have asked for a break in the second remote emergency session of the Saeima on 31 May 2021 until 1 June at 14.00. So first of all we must decide to return the draft law to the commission responsible. One Member can talk about this, one against and one against. Mr. Valains, will you speak? Thus, Members have not applied to speak about or against. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Administrative Territories and Populations” to the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 63, against - 1, refrains. So the decision has been made, the draft law has been returned to the commission responsible for the work. Once again - Members Golubeva, Chaks, Zamur, Voika and Bikše have asked for a break at this parliamentary sitting by 1 June at 14.00. We must vote on this. Please call me! We will vote for a break at the Saeima sitting by 2 p.m. on June 1, this year! Please, let's vote! No, 71, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. Interruption until 1 June at 2 p.m. ( Interruption)
