ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2205-U1	Honourable Members! Let's start the fifth remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 4 March 2021. On the agenda – draft law “Amendment to the Criminal Procedure Law”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juris Jurash.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2205-U2	Colleagues! The second reading is examined on the urgent draft law “Amendment to the Criminal Procedure Law” (No. 968/Lp13). I would remind you that the draft law was drafted by the Legal Commission in order to ensure more effective protection of the interests of the good faith acquirer in criminal proceedings and to protect those persons who acquired property in good faith, but later recognised property as criminally acquired. Consequently, three proposals were examined by the Legal Commission. In particular, the first is the proposal of the Legal Bureau, which provides for both editorial clarifications and proposes amendments to Article 360 rather than Article 357, by proposing to supplement the article by paragraph 2.1 in the wording which states: ‘If the property acquired by a criminal offence would have been returned to the State as owner, it shall be left to the State by a third party who is a good faith acquirer of the property. A person who has committed a criminal offence shall, for the benefit of the State, recover the value of this property in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Civil Procedure Law.” Given that the proposal extends the original version of the draft law, it was partly supported by the Legal Commission and included in proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2205-U3	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2205-U4	2. is a proposal of the Legal Commission, which includes a editorial clarification of the Legal Bureau and Article 360 is supplemented by paragraph 2.1 as follows: "If the property acquired by a criminal offence is immovable property which is subject to State jurisdiction, it shall be retained in the ownership of a third party if it is a good acquirer of that property and its property rights are enshrined in the public register. A person who has committed a criminal offence shall, for the benefit of the State, recover the value of this property in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Civil Procedure Law.” The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2205-U5	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2205-U6	3. is the proposal of the Legal Commission, which provides for the entry into force of the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2205-U7	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2205-U8	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! When I look at all its movements around this bill, I have two questions, and I would appreciate if the authors of the bill or the authors of this solution could perhaps help me and the general public to hear the answers to these questions. Question one. The whole thing... The police decided to confiscate this apartment... It is clear that this is the solution to one particular case. Therefore, the State Police took a decision on the confiscation of this apartment in 2019. Why, then, did it take so much time - almost two years - to decide that it was precisely such a legislative solution? And the question is two. Colleagues, so I will repeat once again, I think it is absolutely clear to everyone that these amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law are adopted as a reaction to one particular case, although of course there may be even more. But the question is, why, given that this apartment, which has no victim, would be able to return this apartment according to the legislation in force... Why did the State or Cabinet not decide not to confiscate this apartment? Or if the State was obliged to confiscate this apartment in accordance with the applicable legislation, why did the State, that is, the Cabinet of Ministers, not decide to return this apartment to the well-believing Mr. Wilipson? Would it not have been a much simpler and clearer solution? Is what we are doing today not, then, another proof that the government is not really operational? I see that Mr. Judin has already applied. Thank you, I will listen with interest to my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2205-U9	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2205-U10	Hello, colleagues! I'll try to answer. First of all, it doesn't confiscate. There is no question here about confiscation of property. There is a process of criminally acquired property, which took place in accordance with Chapter 59 of the Criminal Procedure Law. And it implies that if the property is found to be criminally acquired, it is returned to the victim, the owner. The victim in this criminal proceedings is a state and therefore has to be returned to the state in accordance with the law. The decision to return the property to the State was taken on 17 February 2021, which was decided by the court. So it's just accepted. The next week is scheduled... next or next week, I find it difficult to say, but theoretically next week, a regional court hearing may take place, which will deal with the complaint. Well, that's the situation. In addition, I would like to draw attention to this: it is not a story of one case. I'd say it's a single scheme, a criminal scheme, a story. And the scheme is simple. Unfortunately, I probably admit there are several people involved, then... But I understand how this scheme works - after finding out that there are alone people who have no heirs, wills were counterfeited, then, when they became owner, fraudsters take away, sell them further, further and further several times, and ultimately they have money, but someone has an apartment, a dwelling that has been made on his name, but if an offence is discovered, the state will uncover and hand it over to the owner. In this case, the owner is a state, as I said, and in this particular case we are creating regulation, but there are several in the criminal proceedings that we are talking about (which was launched in 2014). So if we were talking about one person, we would certainly look for a different solution, but there is a need for regulation here, and today we have the opportunity to resolve the situation in case of property belonging to a state. Then, let us say, in three weeks' time, I think we will be able to start a long, difficult job and find a solution for other cases as well. I hope that I have responded and the question has been clarified. Unfortunately, I see that there will probably be other issues. Well, if there's a need, I'll debate again, I'll try to answer it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2205-U11	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2205-U12	Thank you to Mr Judine for having taken up the debate and tried to explain it. Indeed, Mr Judine, you will have to come and explain again, because I listened to your explanation and I had a valid question. So you brought up thesis (to which I think everyone agrees) that if the property is obtained by criminal means, it must be returned. Then explain to me, please, specifically in Mr. Wilipson's case, how he... where was his criminal activity, acquiring this property, this apartment. He found out in the Land Register that it was even the right owner, bought from him, fairly paid the required payment for this property, registered it in the Land Register. Then he was suddenly told that, you know, you've been unfairly acquired, you've been unfairly acquired... Tell me, where was Mr. Wilipson's unfair, criminal act? Where was he in a criminal case? Rather, if someone here was criminal in this situation, then it was a state that was light or incompetent to its duties and did not carry out the necessary actions, and even more so - it deceived the rest of Latvia with records in the register, declaring that everything is right here, this property is registered. What can be trusted then if a person cannot rely on what the state has itself entered in its records. Then, in the case given, to declare that he has acquired this property in a criminal way, and to take it away, I think it is completely illogical. It is therefore right that we are looking for a solution for all this story. One thing is about real estate. Just as well in the register can be... Let us say, there are other national registers - there are also cars, tractors or vessels in the register. And if I want to buy one of these things, I will make sure in the national register that the person who sells me really, according to the information recorded in the national register, which is certified by the state itself, is the legal owner of this property, and I buy it from him, then my story comes back. So here I would also like to hear a comment on this. Shouldn't we think about... if the country has already registered and... The point of this register is to make sure that we are the real owner and to make sure that it is the country that proves it. If a state has already set up such a register and confirms that it is the real owner, and if I have taken the necessary steps and checked it using the information provided by the State, how can I be criminalized? as the perpetrator of the criminal act? For trusting the country? I would like to receive clarification about all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2205-U13	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2205-U14	Hello, colleagues! I could, of course, just congratulate the fact that the following amendments are indeed adopted today, as a matter of urgency. And despite the fact that it affects one or more families, it is very important that we even adopt amendments to laws for the protection of one family's interests, because every citizen of Latvia has the right to see him, see his or her problems and solve them in the legislative process. But because of the information provided by Mr Judine, I could draw your attention to a number of issues. First of all, our task is really to prevent any schemes in the real estate sector in the future. Here I would also like to draw attention to the role of sworn notaries in this process, and also in these specific criminal proceedings, it was a notary where it was possible to eliminate this scheme and prevent what had happened almost without the adoption of these amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act today. The second very serious problem is the availability of any public statements to the population of Latvia as a whole. Because that's practice... with which many very important statements are placed in the “Latvian Official Journal”, in the internet environment, fail to fulfil their task, because these statements often do not reach the addressee. I know that “Latvijas Vestnesis” is regularly read, of course, by lawyers, sworn bailiffs and so on, but people, let's say, don't know that they have to look at this “Latvian Official”. Because looking at a number of cases related to forced rental, for example, people didn't know that the land under their house had been privatised, bought and so on, but according to the law it is - if you don't dispute the entry in the Land Register within a year, then you can't do anything anymore. And I now advise all people: “Please, at least once a year, look at your landbook – there has been no change, or there has suddenly appeared a owner who has bought the land under your house.” And, of course, this practice, when no long-term entries are made in the Land Register (when the transaction has already taken place when the contract is concluded), is not acceptable. And I think here, too, you have to look at the quality of the law by regulating all these processes. This case shows, on the one hand, a very positive moment - that when public opinion and the media are forcing us, we are able to quickly adopt the necessary amendment to the law, but in general it shows that it is still far from the speed and quality of the legislative process in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2205-U15	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2205-U16	I thank Mr Judine, my fellow Members, for his response to my questions and the attempt to answer, but I have not, forgive Mr Judine, heard the answers to my questions in substance. I will repeat my two main points. Question one. The police arrested this apartment obtained in good faith in Vilnius in 2019. Today, with great urgency, we are adopting this bill within one day from and to the last reading. So why did it ask (if you think this is the right solution) for almost two years? Question two: However, I cannot agree with what you said that the victim here is a country. How can a country be a victim? Did this apartment belong to the state? No, no. The country is clearly not a victim. Why has the state, that is, the government, not decided to give up this apartment in favour of the good-believing, that is, Mr. Wilipson? Either why the government did not decide to give back if there was no way out... than confiscate... Why did the government not decide to give this apartment back to good - faith winners? Why? I hope, however, that you will answer this question in substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2205-U17	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2205-U18	President of the Saeima! Colleagues! I would rather ask both the Minister of Justice, Mr Bordan, and the legislator of this draft law about this situation as such, because the general public learned very recently, a few weeks ago, from the public media that this situation had arisen. And even more - that such a situation (as well as Mr Judine himself mentions) - that it is a whole system in which we work, let us say so, in groups and try to take possession of these properties in some way. What, though, are the facts? The facts are that, two years ago, Mr. Wilipson, with his Mrs. Bordan, who promised them that this inconsistency should be prevented, that he would do everything (that the family of Wilipson did not worry), that inside the system he would resolve all this, and a statement will be sent about the apartment that the arrest of the apartment was over. And in such circumstances, it is a degree of trust in the member of the government who has made such promises. Member of government, no one else! A member of the Latvian government is building trust in people, and all his actions over two years are a letter to his party member, Mr Jušas, to start discussing this issue. And it lived so far that we're actually going to the problems that we're in today. It is only when the situation is already so critical that when public media start to talk about it, action starts. So where are the people with their problems to address? Right at the journalists? Is this a normal approach? What are the responsible officials doing, who have been aware of these matters for several years, but are doing nothing to deal with them? Today, of course, we will support these amendments, but the problem is that not only Mr Wilipson is in this situation. For Mr. Wilipson's sake, this one is... These amendments have been made and, in some way, are proposed to address this problem only because they entered the public space. But if I hadn't? Then those people who suffer from this problem, who may not be able or who may not be represented by journalists in the public space, would simply continue to suffer. And the solution to this is... It is the reporter's merit that this issue has been raised at all in the Saeima and is being dealt with. So, colleagues, there is negligence - the negligence of those responsible - that we have lived to this point. And it does not in any way promote faith in the state administration, it does not promote trust in the Cabinet of Ministers in general, if ministers in the Cabinet work with promises similar to pre-election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2205-U19	The name to the Member, Andrejs Judin, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2205-U20	Thank you. I thank my colleagues for their questions and for their genuine interest in the good faith beneficiary. I will then try to answer the questions quickly. First of all, I would like to emphasise that I agree with Mrs Ločmel that the issue is not just about criminal proceedings. We have to look at the substance of the role played by notaries, the role played then... What is the role of the Land Register and other institutions, because the criminal-law block... This is the result, it is consistency, but the substance must then look deeper. With regard to notaries, what is the problem: are we prepared to pay more? And here I hear from some people that we don't need it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it. That is one question. For credibility. Of course, credibility is important. It is the person who reads the register, and he has reason to believe, but if criminals break down the situation, if something is really obtained illegally, then the problem arises. Mr. Zarins, you can imagine the situation: you have a machine that's done, sold it, then there's one machine and two people, and each of them then claims. One is the owner, the other is the good faith beneficiary. We can't cut that car and let everybody down. Next, when it comes to the victim, the victim of the Criminal Procedure Law is the state. But I also agree with Mr Dombrovskis that it does not hurt the country. Man... If this victim were a man, it would be different, but the Criminal Procedure Act states that the state was the victim because its property was subject to the state. When it comes to the arrest that you wanted me to explain: the arrest is security. The property was arrested, but that does not mean that it could be disposed of. And I, like you, learned in 2021 that there is a possibility of expropriation, and we are acting quickly because it is really a big problem now. The problem was completely different in 2019. There was no risk that the property would be taken away. Thank you. Unfortunately, there is no time to explain further. Well, then I'll try to do it at the commission meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2205-U21	Name to Member Juris Jušas.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2205-U22	Colleagues! In these discussions, there have been many things that do not fit into the actual situation. And here, of course, I'd like to say that... regrets, in fact, that, unfortunately, within 30 years, the State has not been able to provide effective mechanisms for the protection of the rights of this bona fide acquirer. I am pleased that we will, I hope, be able to take at least a small step today in that direction in order to resolve this issue in at least one such narrow aspect, and it is clear that... He also said from Mr. Dombrovskis... He said that there was an arrest in 2019 and that there were all those who had to respond and make suggestions for action. But I would like to remind you that the arrest is just a guarantee and the decision on confiscation has actually been made only two weeks ago. I would like to thank the Ministry of Justice very much, the Subcommittee on Criminal Law Policy of the Legal Commission for its active involvement in tackling this problem. Different versions were proposed, so solutions for both a wider range of issues and also a narrower one, but at the moment I would like to say that this specific solution, even if it were only one person or one case of consent... Even then, as the Saeima, we need to act and correct the problems and restore the rule of law. Unfortunately, this is not the only case, it is about the system, which has been implemented by criminals for several years, so this particular case only actually illustrated, encouraged and provided the basis for active action. And thank you to the media, thank you to Mr. Wilipson, who raised this issue. I am pleased that we have been able to respond quickly enough to prevent injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2205-U23	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2205-U24	Yes, I would like to start by congratulating Andrejs Judine on his participation in the debate. In my opinion, this is a good example of how, normally, the Saeima should look at the debate when the Members of the committee responsible are applying for a debate, explain, justify the decision of the committee and can all be competent to follow what is really happening, not as is usually the case when Members who have made a decision are shy to express their views or quietly simply because they do not understand anything that they have voted. However, if we are talking specifically about the example that you mentioned, Mr Judine, I cannot agree with it at all, it seems to me quite a failure... then maybe... what you said, calling me, that let's assume I have a car and I'm the owner of this car, and then I'm the good-believer. And then who's going to own that car? I'm sorry, how can you be a good-believer if he doesn't get this car? If I'm the owner, it means that this car is registered with me in accordance with the national register, because it's the sign by which we conclude whether or not I'm the owner. Next, if I sell it to someone or someone in good faith, he will also be able to prove from this register that he is a beneficiary that he has acquired this car. That's it... We are not talking about simple action, we are talking about activities in which the country is involved. This debate started for us precisely about the involvement of the country. If a State has established these transactions, it has confirmed the truthfulness and reasonableness of those transactions, then in any event, a person who has relied on that State’s evidence could be regarded as having committed criminal activities in those national registers. Rather, something is wrong with the country here, and that is what I would ask you to think about. So how else can we citizens be sure of the real order of things if we cannot trust even our own country, what it has guaranteed. And I think this is a very important point that I would like to call for attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2205-U25	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission to proposal 3?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2205-U26	On behalf of the Commission, there is nothing to add to proposal 3... the fact that it is supported by the Commission alone.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2205-U27	Thank you. Or any of... Enable the procedure. Or one of the Members asks for a vote on 3. - the Commission's proposal, who is supported? Members spoke in the debate, but they do not ask for a vote on proposal 3. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2205-U28	So more proposals were not put forward for this draft law. I invite Members to support the draft law on “Amendment to the Criminal Procedure Law” (No. (968/Lp13) in second final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2205-U29	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on the second, final reading of the Criminal Procedure Law! Please, let's vote! No, 94, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined the agenda of the sitting. So in 15 minutes, at 16.20, we will continue to discuss the agenda of the second remote emergency session on 4 March. There's also a record of Members. Registration has taken place. Thank you. So I closed the fifth remote emergency sitting on March 4.
