ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U1	Good morning, Prime Minister. Good morning, fellow Members of the Saeima! Let us begin the extraordinary remote sitting of the Saeima on 3 June this year. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. The draft decision on the expression of trust to the Minister for Economic Affairs Janis Vitenbergs. Name to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U2	Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Dear Members, Honourable Members! Colleagues Ministers! Our country has indeed experienced so much in the last year as may be in other parliamentary term... it is not in one or two or even three of its experiences. The Covid-19 pandemic has been a huge challenge for us, for every citizen of the country; of course not less members of the Saeima and members of the government. Together, we are gradually exiting this crisis. It is now a very good news that illness is falling in the country. And we are continuing to grow in the number of people who have been vaccinated. This vaccination programme, which is currently under way... Around 100,000 inhabitants of our country are vaccinated every week. This is our common exit from the crisis: by taking this immunity, protecting ourselves from serious illness and death, we also protect society as a whole. So this work must continue. However, we must also look to the future - where our country is going. We have clearly defined in the government that we are moving from the old policy of cheap transit - cheap transit of money, cheap transit of raw materials - as a country's development model to a model where our country's producing companies - exporters. So both goods and services are the future of our country. We must put all our attention and energy in order to develop the business environment, so that we can get more and more investment, so that we can have new jobs, something that I simply call smart reindustrialisation. The full composition of the Cabinet of Ministers is, of course, necessary to achieve these goals together. Today I will call on you to vote in favour of four ministers. The first I offer is Jānis Vitenbergs, who could come to the government team, to come back to the government team, to be more accurate. A colleague whom you yourself know very well in the Saeima, who has worked for a long time in the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, and who has also been in the Cabinet of Ministers for almost a year as Minister for Economic Affairs. I call on you today to support Mr Witenberg's vote once again as Minister for Economic Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U3	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wittenberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U4	Hello, very honourable Saeima...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U5	Mr. Witenberg, please turn on the camera! We don't see you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U6	But is there a hearing?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U7	It's heard, but we don't see you. There is a requirement to turn on the camera and also to ensure the transmission of the image. ( Pause) That's great! So the name to the Member... Well, what's that? ( Pause) The name is Mr. Janis Wittenberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U8	Yeah, some technical problems, but... Good afternoon! President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Dear Members, Honourable Members! Over the last year, as Minister for Economic Affairs, I had the greatest challenge of combating the economic crisis caused by the Covid-19 virus and its consequences. At this time, every decision taken by the government was important for society and business. They were very different. A number of these were those who prevented - in whole or in part - from working in various sectors of the economy for months, for some more than half a year. And the sectors that employ tens of thousands of employees were limited. At this time, the Ministry of Economics created comprehensive support instruments, programmes for our companies and their employees, which continue to function today. The main ones. I would like to highlight the programme to support working capital, which amounts to more than half a billion euros, and... wage subsidies and soft work allowances of 180 million employees... which has already helped 80,000 workers; this is a significant figure. We have also developed post-war support programmes to help the sectors most affected and continue to suffer. During the ministry, I have criticised the active support of various sectors of the economy at this difficult time for our companies, but I will not deny that a lot of time has been taken to develop and implement the principles of safe operation of different sectors, and time has been devoted... working together with representatives of various sectors... And, of course, their problems and sorrows became the sorrows of our ministry and of me as a minister. And every positive decision on aid or on the possibility of working in any of these sectors... It was like a little victory for us. Here, I would like to emphasise once again the introduction of a programme of working capital; it will go over half a billion. The programme also changed the attitude of economic operators towards the State, towards state aid at this point in time, and received a number of positive assessments from economic operators specifically about the programme. I'm especially emotional to myself... such, well, severe maybe... and this was the positive news that agreement was reached on the resumption of small shops and on the restoration of beauty and other services, as these sectors were not able to work for a long time. Both the public and the entrepreneurs themselves were waiting for the opportunity to resume their work. I would like to say that the measures taken by the government to support businesses and citizens have effectively helped to reduce the severity of the situation caused by the pandemic. The growth of Latvia's economy dropped by 3.6 percent last year, but compared to the average of 6.1 percent of European countries, i.e. half of the European Union's average... At first, when I started managing the Ministry of Economics, international institutions predicted a drop of up to 10 percent for Latvia... The rescue ring of our economy in this context has been a steady increase in goods exports, despite the community. Goods exports grew by 5.5 per cent in 2020 and by 4 per cent in the first quarter of this year. March was especially successful when goods exports reached a new month record in the history of Latvia. In March, Latvia exported 1.34 billion goods; this is 20 percent more than in the previous year - a significant increase. And despite the overall reduction in economic activity, the problems of moving and attracting investment, we managed to attract more investment in 2020 than in the last seven years. So that despite the difficult circumstances, LIAA's work and the work of the Ministry of Economics were successful in these circumstances. The State aid measures have significantly mitigated the negative impact of the Covid-19 on the employment of the population. The level of registered unemployment has started quite evenly since March and... To drop sharply, and at the end of May 69 thousand job seekers were registered, and the total unemployment rate was 7.6 percent and... Significantly decreased; as early as July last year, unemployment reached 8.7 percent and 80,000 jobseekers were looking for work. So ten thousand people have found a job. It is positive that currently there is a rapid increase in the number of vacancies available on the labour market. The most fresh news, which is encouraging and positive, is the latest OECD report published a few days ago, which predicts that Latvia could increase its growth rate and GDP growth by 3.2 percent this year, and the following year - by 5.6 percent. If these forecasts are fulfilled, Latvia's GDP growth will be the largest among the Baltic countries. Of course, this whole community has been important... aspect, but now we have moved from zero to zero in the Ministry... A series of new directions, new programmes that may not have been dealt with for a long time, and the “new” minister, Vitenberg, if the Saeima will support me in this post today, will have the opportunity to bring to the end what the “old” minister, Wittenberg, started, if he could say so. I would like to emphasise the work on access to housing - in addition to the new family support programme 'Voss', which was introduced a year ago and through which new families can access their first housing. Multiple families - this is particularly important for us as a country. And a hundred families have already used this support. We will also start to build rental housing in regional centres; that is, that's very... a problem that has been delayed for a long time, but it is important that we begin to do so this year. I am well aware that, with the money of the European Recovery and Stability Fund (over 40 million in total), we will not be able to solve all this problem - the question of access to housing - so now, together with the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and the Ministry of Finance, we have started work on developing a comprehensive, comprehensive fund that can also address this problem in the long term. Of course, we will continue to work on this... housing or multi-apartment... the renewal of the fund, there are various renovation programmes. For us, this Soviet heritage, the residential fund, is rapidly ageing, and adequate funds are also needed to bring this fund into line. I have already mentioned the current rescue ring of our economy - our goods exports. So it's positive... There are, of course, positive trends here, but it should be stressed that our export goods portfolio is still of low added value and that improvements are needed here. Even now, in the days of the community, we have a number of entrepreneurs in the Ministry of Economic Affairs who have great ambitions and ambitions to implement a range of large projects that could even change some sectors of the economy as a whole, but with the existing support tools, our capacity to help them has been limited. That is why a political agreement has been reached, and we are already working on further details in order to create a fund for the creation and development of large investment projects. And as an example, we can mention the fact that one of the most important export products we currently have cereals and with this fund... We see that we can help entrepreneurs develop production facilities that can change the whole sector and bring significant added value. Rather than simply exporting raw materials that are then processed by another country, it is the same. I think if we do it, then export growth data... The increase will be significantly faster. So... I think it is very important that we have agreed on this programme (we hope to start working on its implementation already in the second half of this year), which is the development of these production areas in the new regional centres. I expect that - in parallel with this development of rental houses, construction - this will provide a steady boost for the development of the country, because regional centres will have the opportunity to make good money for people, work closer to their homes, and have the opportunity to live in quality and modern-day housing that... There is a big problem right now. I have touched the European Recovery and Stability Fund on several occasions in my speech today. Here, too, I would like to thank my colleagues in the Ministry and also my colleagues in the Cabinet for the agreement that has been reached, and this total amount of 1.82 billion has actually been broken down. The direct support for our entrepreneurs is more than 600 million, and here we are expected to build around 30 new programmes as the responsible ministry over the next few years - a significant number - that will enable the development of new products, the digitisation of the private sector, various energy efficiency programmes to promote the production of green energy without such support... where it should be provided... where every single household should do... from electricity bills... but without this so-called feed-in tariff... develop green energy locally, near our entrepreneurs who consume this energy. Colleagues! Indeed, I remember quite a bright session of the Saeima that was a year ago and in which I was approved by the Minister for Economic Affairs. At the time, I was also supported by the members of the opposition and non-attached Members, and then you, fellow Members, said: "Vitenberg, we have worked with you, we have seen you, and this is like a credit of trust for the future." And I have tried to work with great responsibility and remember these words so as not to let any of you down, and I hope that I have justified this credit so far, and I am ready to continue working, to continue working and to lead these things to the end. At this point, I would also like to thank all Latvian entrepreneurs, our society, who are struggling and experiencing this crisis. The crisis has taken longer than each one of us expected. So, colleagues, I call for my candidacy to be supported. And to the cooperation! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U9	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U10	Good morning, everybody! First of all, thank you to Mr Wittenberg for having been bold enough - she took up the debate and expressed her view. In my opinion, this should be every time - before every ministerial election debate, the candidate should come here and tell his vision, and the Saeima should evaluate him here... Well, if the Saeima as a whole means something to vote. I'm sorry to say... It should be noted at once that the things that you have said so optimistic are going on, not because of you, but despite your efforts, despite what the government is doing. So all these comparative export indicators, and so on, that you mentioned and that you tried to present as your success - in fact, it is simply the result of the work of others. In order to be able to measure the outcome of the work of this government, we should look at the comparative figures, taking, let us say, our own neighbouring countries, Lithuania and Estonia, and then we will see what is then done by that government in the economic field. If we take the latest statistics on gross domestic product growth - what do we see? We see that this is positive for Lithuania and Estonia, negative for Latvia. Here is an example of how our government works. Also on how money is now shared... Colleagues, this is all your success, with which you can boast, that you have finally started some kind of... to learn money... Is that so? But this money is not your money! It's money that someone else has given us, or... which we will have to give back to ourselves because they are loans. That's what you're doing so insanely again... so rude, so pointless that... Well, the damage that is being done at the moment... It will have to be repaid for a long time, many years. What are you doing? You make your pointless decisions... like all these regulations, the prohibitions with which you try... and who don't work real, and then you're making these pointless decisions... You just make up for it with the money that's shut down, with the entrenched millions, not your millions; they're gonna have to be given back to someone else. I remember at the very beginning, when this coalition was formed - it was a few years ago - in a television programme... I was asked how I saw that situation. It was exactly the time when everyone was waiting for the change, when the new political forces arrived, a large part of the composition of the Saeima had changed, and all had some kind of examination, expectations: what would happen now? And I tried to describe at the time that, in fact, all that was said was all that was expected, that nothing like that would happen, and I compared it with... so that it would be more understandable for the public, for those who watched the television programme “The Animal World” on the National Geographic channel, where they showed how every year – every year! - a great animal walk is taking place: the young antelopes go to the sunny far over the river, and there, in the river, sleep old crocodiles and just wait quietly for these antelopes to run, knowing well that as soon as they fly into the water, they will immediately become feed for these old crocodiles. And that's exactly what we can see today! One process has already come to an end. So one new antilope, who had promised this change to society that now everything here will be changed and a new policy will be created, has got into the belly of the old crocodiles. The next round is about to take place. They are not aware of this themselves, they feel that they will continue to bring about this change, but this process is inevitable, and we will see it yet. However, if we are talking about this old process, about how it has been felt in the Ministry of Economics, then one of the stories I can't, of course, touch on is the story of OIC. And after what I hear, I understand that this phase will be continued, because this government, Kariņa, was the one that raised the cover of this OIC, on a new, unprecedented level, contrary to what they promised. Do you remember them all with foam on their lips, especially the “old” Wittenberg from the old party he was in, promised that they were all here... without delay, to deal with the OIC’s apocalypse, and at all, will the OIC be eliminated? What is the result? What did we get? The first decision that you made, signed, in connection with the OIC, Mr Wittenberg, was the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, where you had a very interesting regulation. In particular, this regulation provides that, contrary to the provisions of the law... the law that we were able to accept after the Saeima elections is still on hot feet, while the whole of the promises was not born... We achieved in the law that one of the requirements was for the recovery of fraudulent or unduly paid, illegal OIC support. What did you do? The first decision you made with regard to the OIC when you took up office - you amended the Cabinet of Ministers' regulations and laid down... you made them available in such a way that this defrauded aid could not be recovered so that only a small part of it could be recovered. I mean, you wrote it, and it's with your signature... I think it was 2 September last year, when it happened... and with your signature... you have made such a regulation that only the part of the aid that will take place over the last period can be recovered... or from the last alert received. To understand what that means... And it's very interesting here: two events overlap here. It was at this point that the Ministry of Economics had to fulfil another statutory task, which was included... what we have included - that is to say, a report on the performance of these OIC stations - for the last three years, for the specific characteristics of these stations; that is something you did not very much want. At the time, the Ministry of Economics did not really want it to submit such a report to the Saeima, because the Ministry of Economics knew very well that if it submitted such a report and if it had specified these indicators, then it will be able to see the fraud that has been committed. And the Ministry of Economics, before submitting this report, changed the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which provided that when these frauds were revealed... And this is about a period of years... and this fraud can be demonstrated... will already be as proven by the fact... And here we are talking about many, many millions, and everyone can make sure that this report is submitted to the Saeima, this information is available. And this information clearly shows that many stations have been cheating for years under the supervision of the Ministry of Economics. The Ministry of Economy has covered it all these years. These are entie million - many, many million. And so that many, many millions of the Ministry of Economics should not be recovered, it prepared the following regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which, of course, this government, Kariņa, has approved. And “due to” you... This is your merit, Mr Witenberg, which I think it would be justified and right to answer someone, not only politically, perhaps but also at a very different level and in response to other institutions. Don't tell me you didn't know that. Maybe why Krišjānis Kariņš is moving you again today as a minister... to this post - because he needs to cover the OIK phase, because it's his creation. It was he who, as the Minister of Economics, was once the one who signed this law, the Law on the Electricity Market, which laid the foundations for the OIC field, thus giving the Cabinet the opportunity to act freely, on its own mind, and to do what it wants, laying down only that everything that will be worked by the Cabinet of Ministers, what regulation it will make, will have to be paid by the whole people of Latvia. Another thing, Mr. Wittenberg, is how you can continue to cover the OIC sphere on the contrary, in violation of the law. Another thing that was recorded in the electricity market law, which you had - already had! - have to be implemented already last summer - regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers on prevention of overcompensation, namely on the prevention of the situation created by the Ministry of Economics, enabling economic operators to receive too generous support. We have long fought for a more specific delegation in the law so that the Ministry of Economics can do so more quickly and a specific framework is already in place. The Ministry of Economics was desperately fighting against it. Nevertheless, we managed to include at least general principles in the law - that such regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers should be developed and that there should be mechanisms to prevent overcompensation. What principles? So, by including all the aid received, because here we are once again talking about many, many millions, which were not included in the recalculation of this overcompensation. We got this regulation regulated with great battles. It had to start working more than a year ago. When you break the law, Mr. Wittenberg, you haven't done that. So you cover the OIC sphere in violation of the law. Not only do you not fight with the way you promised when you came into politics - that you will fight that you will eliminate it at all. What is more, you have not done this, but you are doing it in violation of the law. This is how you fulfill your promises. What I hear about this green course you're telling... When it comes to the Saeima, we will also have an interesting debate. And I'll show you how you'll continue to cover this phase, how you're preparing this regulation, how... in essence, you will show the same story we saw a few years ago, when there were unexistent OIC stations, so that they could earn everything. Here will be a similar story. We will wait for it to come to the Saeima, and it will be such a moment of revelation for the whole of Latvian society and also for the political power that will now be the main coverr, because I understand that the National Association has entered the line to cover this sphere. Go on. The most important task I didn't hear about in this story is how we will then have the money that has now been given... Europe will be given to re-start our economy, to re-establish our economy. The first plan that was made was simply a real disaster! So more than 80 percent of this money, as our smart... our smart government and the leadership of the Ministry of Economics (as I understand, so the money that was meant to enable us to restart our economy)... This government has decided that more than 80 percent of them will spend on public orders. It will cost itself, by making all kinds of orders, it will cost us money, saying: yes, something from this will be for entrepreneurs, because entrepreneurs will carry out these orders. But not that money! This money was given to really restart our economy. At the moment, we hear just talking about all this, but there is no real sense about how to do it. I warned of this already when, for the first time, we changed the Minister for Health, because then the whole major debate and public indignation was about the vaccination plan - that we do not have this vaccination plan and that vaccination is threatening to fail. Even then, I warned that an even greater scandal and even more shock for the country could be if we did not manage the plan, which is our economic start-up plan, which is already in due time... I warned Karina about it - think about it, follow the Ministry of Economics so that we do not fail. We are now in exactly the same situation as with the vaccination plan. And we all know how we're going with this vaccination. If we are going through an economic recovery plan in the same way, we are, in fact, writing off our country, because when the communion crisis ends... and sooner or later, it will come to an end, because every disease comes and goes, and it will probably not be the success of this government that we will get out of this communion crisis, but simply the natural order of things, because the diseases come and go... then this race, this corner in which all the world's economies will participate, will begin. And if we're not ready for it, if we're going to get that money down again somewhere pointless and figure out all kinds of stupidity... And we're not going to have to invest it wisely, just having to talk wisely, then we're going to go even further in this race. We will simply be decided on poverty, and further this also means that our people will be determined to extinction, because in a global economy we will simply be pumped out - our human resources, our opportunities and our natural resources. And everything will only be due to the fact that we will have such a "powerful" government, which is needed by a narrow political lock to keep up with power. Therefore, Mr Wittenberg, you will have to answer for the OIC and better prepare solutions in good time. You have not prepared them, you have to continue to cover them, and what you are doing is obviously - you are walking along, with everything. You may lack the competence, perhaps also the political will, but in the end someone will have to answer for it, and you are worth thinking about it in good time. And the second big story. Of course, we would like to see here, in the Saeima, how you see, as an economic minister, how the country will come out of this crisis, how we will be able to compete in the world with dignity in this new economic climate, because there are so far only empty talks about smart industrialisation, which I have been talking to you more than 10 years ago, and now you have started to talk about it, but, as we do, we do not see it. Personally, I will not vote in favour of any of the ministers today, because I see that this is a disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U11	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U12	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I have one question for the Prime Minister - as the one who leads this particular candidate - and also my assessment of this candidate and his work and, consequently, his prospects for what that candidate could do. Mr. Karin! I am with both hands for industrialisation, reindustrialisation, smart reindustrialisation. With both hands on. And I'm really glad that somewhere... around this year or at the end of last year these words "industrialisation", "smart reindustrialisation" appeared in your public rhetoric. You are talking about the fact that we are now moving from an old economic policy to a new policy. What is - it is, of course, a huge, huge challenge. This requires performance. It requires an extraordinary team to execute it. You're coming to the Saeima today, you're telling me... You position yourself as a retrograde of your government, such a new beginning, such a restoration. It would be logical to hear from you that... Here you say that we are launching smart reindustrialisation, and here is that man, the Minister for Economics, with a large letter about which I have full confidence that he is in this smart reindustrialisation... he is the right person to do this. My question to you, Prime Minister, is the following: at what point, Prime Minister, you have understood that Jānis Vitenbergs is really an architect and public face of this smart reindustrialisation? What have been the criteria for looking for this candidate? Did you have other candidates? What? What makes you convinced that this smart reindustrialisation will take place - so that we can really believe it, not that it is simply the current words? I very much look forward to your reply on this. If I don't wait... then specifically about this candidate - about the economy. Here's if we look at objective data on the dynamics of gross domestic product over the last five to six years, even in the last two years - the time of the last two years, which is the time of both Jānis Vitenbergs and his JPV LV colleagues, then we see that our lag between Lithuania and Estonia has increased significantly over these two years. So, again. We have had a significant gap from Lithuania and Estonia, but in the last two years this gap, this gap, has increased even more. Isn't that the result of John Wittenberg's work or inaction? The second point is about OIC. My colleague, Mr. Zarins, has told so much about this, maybe we do not need to further develop this subject at all, but what I would like to point out is that we have not heard from Jānis Witenbergs today about the OIC. But let us remember that Janis Wittenberg was elected to this Saeima with this promise. He himself voted in favour of the decision of the Saeima to terminate the OIK. As I have already said, I do not want to develop this subject further, but I think that says something about Jānis Witenberg's honour as a politician. Third. For work and for today. We all remember the fight against the pandemic... We all remember very well that once we had received an answer from the Ministry of Economics to the Members' questions, which followed that when the government lay down the second wave, when there was a second surprise in the autumn (as is, by the way, the government now has a surprise, the government did not expect the disease to fall in the summer... We all remember well that the government was going to come up with another wave and increased restrictions)... So then... in the autumn... We remember when we received answers to Members' questions about what happened, how those rules were prepared for the support programme, we see that the Ministry of Economics prepared them on a single holiday... Friday, Saturday, Sunday. It's about the quality of work, it's about preparation. If we are talking about today, today many companies receive letters from the State Revenue Service. So, Mr. Wittenberg, we're proud of the support programmes here that, for example... of which working capital... The letters received by the operators for the aid to ensure the flow of working capital... they receive letters, I quote to you, written in letters received by several companies... It states that ‘the funding available under the aid measures is not, at present, sufficient to repay the amount requested for further aid’. No funding available. This concerns aid for working capital for which operators applied for in April... April. If, colleagues, you understand something about working capital, that is what is necessary, yesterday, today. So if the company needed this operating aid in April, they receive letters today - June, early June. It is impossible for them to pay their aid because there is no funding. And there's no funding why? Because the same letters say that it will be available when harmonisation from the European Commission receives the new rules of the MK. So someone has not yet prepared the same regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers in good time again. Harmonisation is still ongoing. The same working capital that should have been paid for April, I think at the beginning of May... receives letters about - wait, we don't know when that's the match. That is just one example. Just one example. Therefore, there is no surprise why our lag in the last two years from Lithuania and Estonia has only increased. Therefore, colleagues, this government can tell us here as much as it wants about some new reconstruction, but we have already understood what is happening. It is the same coalition, in fact with the same members of KPV LV, only here today tells us about some new beginning and some restoration. Therefore, I cannot support this in any way, but, unlike my colleague, I will also be expressing my position by means of a vote and not by means of a vote. Thank you for your attention. The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U13	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Sir, Colleagues! Looking back at what the Ministry of Economics has done, I think you can look at "old" Wittenberg, then at Nemir, to other ministers, but it is very important to understand that, in fact, very much the work that has been done for decades gives some impression, or we see it in Excel tables only after a very serious time. The Ministry of Economics, colleagues, consists of three large blocks, which I could simplify... So to say... it is energy, construction and business support. At the construction, of course, a very large segment is also housing. If we look specifically at these segments, then we are lagging behind in energy compared to our neighbours is simply fantastic. Let's assume that technologies that are capable of recovering themselves, let's say, without overcompensation, like the sun, the wind will not develop in Latvia... did not develop in these years, and if we look at the figures in the megawatts, then we from Lithuania and Estonia are falling behind several times. This does not, of course, mean that we should not pay much attention to this issue and, in particular, the Minister for Economic Affairs has a duty to deal with it. So we have to look at the future and look at what exactly are the aspects that hinder our entrepreneurs or entrepreneurs here in Latvia to talk about precisely the development of these segments. Our National Energy and Climate Plan has extremely ambitious targets. We can run away and grow up in many places - that we are committed to a great deal, but it is not yet followed, of course, by any real action, but the hope is for the future. So, of course, at this point, too, I would like to see some way of meeting these challenges under the National Energy and Climate Plan. Housing and construction. Well, the Construction Law had arrived at the Saeima, it had been submitted by the former Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralph Nemiro. In the Saeima, however, after many rounds of discussions, we accepted it and moved forward. The law on the rental of residential premises has also been submitted in advance. I have to say that housing policy... If we look at it, then the State Audit Office had pointed to an extremely long-standing failure to solve this problem. With the Prime Minister's resolution, the answer is already very simple: give the Ministry of Economic Affairs two three state budgets, and this problem, which has not been addressed at all over the 1990s, will be supported in some way, as in fact only four percent of new housing have been constructed in Latvia since 1999. Everything else has been built in previous periods. It is, of course, also a matter of great importance. And the third block is entrepreneurship. Business support to the Ministry of Economics, looking ahead, often requires both the Prime Minister's support and the Minister of Finance's support. It is fair to say that, in previous periods, this has been a particularly difficult process with the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance is looking at its Excel tables and therefore sees no positive impact in looking to the future, for example after five or maybe 10 years. It has to be said that cooperation with various ministries is vital, but one needs to look at its own farm as well. If we go out of these blocks and enter subordination institutions, then in my opinion, a big task is the reorganisation of the Central Statistical Office, this is a very important issue. There are around 500-520 people working on the accumulation and collection of statistics, which is a very happy job, of course, but we are now living in a digital age and could address this issue using modern IT technologies and solutions. It would also be a very important work to show the public that we are able to reduce the number of officials and to make public administration more efficient, which is now just on paper. I believe that there is justified criticism from all sides that this work does not go ahead, on the contrary: the number of officials in individual segments is increasing. If we are talking about the Consumer Centre, then, honestly, people are saying that they do not always respond in good time to the submissions. Very recently, bloggers were also "hospitally" punished for promoting their products to earn a living. This is also the case in subordination institutions, and it should certainly also be noted, as people are currently trying to earn their daily living in any way. Many have indeed been severely affected by this pandemic. In my opinion, this principle is not exactly the right one at the moment. Now is the right carrot principle. If there has indeed been overcompensation somewhere for one of the types of business, the big lobbies, then it can be reviewed and adjusted in some way, but the government must, of course, work, make decisions within a reasonable time. If we look at the work that has been done, then I think the biggest one, well, I don't like the fact that someone is writing to himself another, let's say, other people, the work done. It makes such unpleasant emotions. At this point, I do not mention any concrete example; I think that we need to work not in the past, but look at the future, and also look at emotions, but look pragmatically at the opportunities that can be created within the framework of cooperation, so very many individual issues will, of course, appear, where cooperation will be needed, both in the government and between the Saeima. If we look at the many processes that have been in the government, I think, for time from many political parties, the fact that the group members have heard about the risk management that is below every criticism, because although, let's say, the Minister of Health, working well, is trying to ensure that this virus is controlled as much as possible, yet illogically, mutually contradictory decisions by the government, coming to the Saeima, cause not only in society but also in Saeima Members who communicate with the public on a daily basis, and therefore, of course, when they listen to the citizens, they come to the conclusion that these decisions need to be changed. With such decisions, I would like to mention the fact that, in fact, thanks to the members of the Saeima, the hockey viewers can now be in the tributaries, of course, both by controlling the flows and by restricting the movement. The beauty industry can also work at the moment. Of course, many say, and I also agree with the argument that the beauty industry, well, in Excel's table, is very difficult to find... Our economies in such a sector as this is the total contribution of our GDP. Well, that's, of course, very little. But in such categories, we cannot really look at this issue either, because in fact, they are also the fate of people. There's a lot of work in this sector... predominantly women, who perhaps raise their own children and therefore, of course, this decision - seven and a half months away from work - has been very unfounded in the context of what has also been pointed out by the Competition Council - that the lobby for the big medical institutions has nevertheless been. And the question must be asked: how has that happened? So there are so many issues that the Ministry of Economics has to deal with... It is a very complicated ministry, in my opinion, by the amount of work that needs to be done. Of course, this is not similar to perhaps in some ministries, where there are huge budgets and which makes it much easier to implement policies. It's got to be fluffy, it's got to move, it's got to be tried in the office... The Cabinet should try to prove its own arguments, its own fairness, and then it can come to the funding of the support mechanism. If you look at a course of the future that has been talked about, that is, smart reconstruction or important reindustrialisation, or one of these terms... It is wonderful, and in fact it has been discussed by various business organisations for decades. Especially in recent times, we can replace this term with other terms, but in fact this is, of course, a productivity increase in businesses and businesses, which has been discussed by virtually all business organisations for a long period of time. Therefore, of course, it is just as important today as it was one year ago, two years ago, five years, ten years and so on. It is good that this emphasis is now being put on. It is also very important to understand that today this decision to express trust is actually a mandate of trust in the sense that some of what has been done in the past can also be assessed. In this case, between “new” and “old” Wittenberg. For the other ministers, on whom we will decide today, the issue is a little more difficult to see, because many of them have not had any experience at all in their position of minister. But in this context, I would like to say that when looking at the future, regardless of the emotions, when looking at the time we are going through Latvia and including the economy, this mandate of trust, colleagues, must be given. Are all ministers today? I don't think so. But if you look at the experience, the work to be done, the criticism that we, as Members, rightly express... And that is our duty to criticise the government. Not to call, but to criticise the government in order to urge the government to do one or the other work that we, for example, are being informed about by our societies, our citizens. We are 100 Members, so we are being written by people, call, social media... their use is also expressed. We reach far more information, probably more than 14 members of the Cabinet of Ministers. Therefore, of course, criticism is very, very well-founded, it must definitely be done, but at the same time on the basis of this criticism... We can express this and call for the Cabinet to act accordingly. I will therefore express my support, but I will not express my support to all the ministers, but I will express my support for each of the ministers. Today... I would like to thank you for your attention right now.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U14	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U15	Dear President of the Saeima. Mr. Prime Minister! Well, I have to say that at the moment, by replacing almost a third of your ministers and especially in difficult areas, you recognise that you have worked incorrectly in particularly difficult areas, even though there has been a community situation. How do people feel now in these difficult areas, how do they feel in the economy? Insecurity. Both individuals feel insecure about what will happen to their income, and entrepreneurs still do not know what is expected in the near future and what is expected perhaps a little further, with which I mean autumn. What will be the conditions for relief or, on the contrary, again the restrictions? And it is not the uncertainty of the news of time that saddens people at the moment in economic terms, but the fact that there is no certainty about the possibility of getting their income or, on the contrary, the inability. At this point, I would probably wish a clear plan now, clear actions to reduce people's feelings of insecurity and perhaps also a feeling of infidelity not for you, my fellow Members, but for yourself. How long can people live in insecurity? How do people feel at the moment? Is that okay? Well, not only insecurity, to some extent - also fear of how to live on. At present, I would wish people care. Listen to what people need, what people pray and what people talk about. Support for children, seniors and parents of children is particularly important at present. And not a lump sum allowance of EUR 500 is what people expect in the future. People expect further clarity, further understanding of how to live, let us accept it, in the autumn, because in the summer too, while waiting for clear answers, perhaps more debates about weather conditions, but do not expect - insecurity, uncertainty and fear about the future of their children and children currently dominate Latvia. The uncertainty in the area of education is still serious. In the summer, please give your children support so that they can take on the sun in the camps and be strong, and give your parents support so that they can give their children an opportunity to do so. And don't teach teachers with courses, let teachers also relax, but at the same time, please, a clear plan that will take place in the autumn, in September, October, November and so on, so that people know what activities are going to take place... how to plan your household and your people's lives. Clearness, accuracy, sensitivity and care in education too! People expect you to hear them and take care of them, because that is the task of your Cabinet. Good luck with your hard work and hard areas. Late clarity and clear action not only in the distribution of restrictions, reliefs or money and in calling for reforms, but in clear action and attention to people. And let people know that insecurity, chaos, non-professionality in decisions will end in this declared year of reindustrialisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U16	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U17	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, If we talk about Latvia's actual backbone, it's an economy, it's an economy, and if we appreciate the performance of the government of Krišjānis Kariņš, we can look at it very clearly in the comparisons of gross domestic product of the Baltic States. From 2018, Latvia is significantly falling behind, but if we look at this, 2021, first quarter... in fact, in the first quarter, then, compared to other Baltic countries, Latvia is the only one for which this fall in GDP is negative. This is positive for both Estonia and Lithuania. And this is John Wittenberg's time. The reduction of the mandatory procurement component. One of the government's tasks, too, that we have talked about many times. There has been a strong and passionate public commitment to reducing electricity bills for society, but all of this has turned not into removing the OIC, but into protecting the OIC. And unfortunately, it's also John Witenberg's time. Absolutely illogical and chaotic economic constraints introduced during the Covid-19 pandemic, allowing some shops to work, others, small, not to work. Absolutely chaotic and incomprehensible restrictions per square metre, where people in public transport can gather one per half square metre, should have been one per 70 square metres in winter on the mountain. If we look at small shops, small domestic producers, they are mostly Latvian local entrepreneurs, local entrepreneurs, employers. These restrictions, which affected them, proved fatal to many. If we now declare that these illogical constraints that we had cut ourselves with screws, we let go of a little... declaring this to be a huge victory. Colleagues, that's not a victory. We will see the consequences for a long time to come. Similarly, at present, during the crisis, make changes that involve social tax contributions. A time when very many people have been unemployed, when many are looking for possibilities to reprofil... A time when many still could not work properly... We actually... not only by talking about changes in this social tax, but in general about changes in taxes in general: we are still actually eliminating micro-businesses. We actually have royalties and various other tax regimes... people working in small tax regimes, patent-payers - we are also de facto eliminating them at a time when they are most difficult to find a job. We've talked to... and heard many representatives from different sectors. These are thousands of small entrepreneurs affected by this area. The alternative we would offer them instead... We can't. Transit. It is not only a competence of the Ministry of Transport; it is also an economy; it is also a gross domestic product, it is also jobs. And transit during the government of Krišjānis Kariņš and also directly during the Minister of Economics, Wittenberg, is actually being destroyed to the end - absolutely. Colleagues, we know how much it is made up of Latvia's gross domestic product. Yes, we can give up a lot of cargo on condition that we have an alternative to offer in place. The alternative is not, there are only beautiful words about smart reindustrialisation. And, colleagues, we can talk about many, many things that we need to do for our economy to develop, but the first one that we need is to stop destroying our economy and think about how we are developing our economy, not how we are going to ruin it. I can't, unfortunately, as sympathetic and collegial to me and humanist as Jānis Vitenbergs... But here I did not vote in favour of a good and sincere person; here I voted in favour of the time manager of the crisis, as a strong minister for the economy. These are the points that I have mentioned above, actually also my argument and, I think, my colleagues' argument as well, why we will not be able to support Mr Wittenberg's candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U18	The name of Member Eric Pucen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U19	Hello, dear colleagues! Hello, Speaker of the Saeima! Well, today we saw: Jānis went to the bar and told how good he was ( Jānis has always talked about values) and how he was supported by the Saeima last time. But, John, you still had value at that time. You had values. And you tell me you're in a party with one of the highest values. That time, John, you weren't... Well, I'd say he'd be called a deserter in the army, a deserter that turns his back on his own and goes to the opponent. Well, then, as far as I understand, on such a rhetorical issue, Raivi Dzintar, the new values of your party are betrayal, hypocrisy, back-to-back agreements. Well, yes, in politics, that's what happens. Well, John, you think you're going to achieve something, but you're going to be a pilot... You're gonna be a bandit, I'd say, in a pretty old party that's gonna play you too. You will be a servant of power. And maybe... it will be better there. The big one, well, these days... Yesterday the government of Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš fell and quite active, with its own hands and with all the agreement under the tables, the second government of Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš was created, to say so. It's like... and films - “Terminator”, “Terminator 2”. Well, let's see if there's a third government by Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš, because we see how many ministers have been replaced. Well, I don't know... Well, I would have a very big discussion about some of the ministers, but I do not see anything about John Borden's replacement. Well, so many negative jobs for this man... Of course, John already played wisely, he offered new Members posts and, of course, the new Members agreed. Well, I, John, hope you have your values... and you will succeed, but I will say that, my colleagues, Ivars Zarins, we, John, will help you. We'll really help you. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U20	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U21	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Dear colleagues, This is a very interesting moment at which we are in a very fast time, but I would like to start by saying that I would like to look back at the time about a year ago when we voted in favour of Janis Witenberg as an economic minister. A year ago, I also voted in favour of Mr Witenberg's approval. If I ask myself a fair question today - whether I am or not disappointed - I think, like many of those colleagues who voted in favour of John Witenberg at that time, I would say that, no, I am not disappointed with the choice I made at that time. And I can also explain why. I see that Mr. Wittenberg gave it during his lifetime. and achieved that there is such a good turning point for industrial parks; it is a good turning point for starting a housing programme in the regions that I have... These questions are very important to me. Also listening to the business, which was linked to small shops... opening of small shops. For me and many of my group's colleagues, these issues were important for the Minister for Economic Affairs. Cooperation with business organisations.... All this leads me to think that my choice was not wrong a year ago. And I am in no way responsible for this today that it has caused any negative consequences. But looking at today's vote... Today's vote, if we formally also vote in favour of expressing confidence in Janis Witenbergs, we are all aware that this is not the vote on the Minister of Economics, Janis Witenbergs, but it is the expression of trust or distrust in the new old government, which I have to agree, in a rather cynical way. Established on the ground, and I think that is already what every political observer and member of the Saeima is... And I am absolutely sure that a large part of the Saeima's Members on these issues, that, in general, we will have to vote in such a format today, learned only from the media more than from the colleagues in their political groups who have agreed on these issues. And agreed in such a very, in my opinion, opaque manner. It is the greatest reproach for this government and for these policy-makers in general, it is also a symbol of the work of this government. In fact, all the big things are arranged somewhere - either in an open terrace or in a cellar or in a quieter place, but not in a transparent way accessible to the general public. This process is even more crazy at the moment than the coalition councils that were criticised at the time. In the coalition councils, at least people came together, and everyone knew that people were coming up there, everyone saw what was coming there, and they understood what they had spoken about there. At the moment, this format is no longer available and there is a big question where these negotiations are taking place. This, in my opinion, does not benefit democracy or society as a whole. We see only a desire for power in the division of positions. But it's about the process in general, it's not about the current question about Jānis Vitenbergs. But with regard to Janis Witenbergs - these things that Mr Janis Witenberg listed in his speech - are of course important. However, I would like this cooperation with business organisations to be strengthened. I will list various organisations, such as the Adazi Business Association. There's an association of businessmen. I think that not one of the Members of the Saeima has been there. Ķekava Municipality Businessers Association, also so. I think there's more than one... and of course the Jelgava producers' and traders' association, Ozolnieki Municipality Business Association, Cesis Business Club. These are very well-known organisations for every Member who is actively going to meet the voters, going to meet non-governmental organisations. I do this, and I know that many of my colleagues are doing it. Tukums Business Club, Talsi Businessers Club, Salaspils Business Association, Ogres Municipality Business Association. Mr Wittenberg, I pay particular attention to this. Your party member runs this municipality, and already there is cooperation with this business association. Also from Ventspils. Other local governments of Latvia... The thumbs and so on. May continue in the same way. All these business associations call on the Latvian Government and the Latvian Parliament to open their eyes, and I also call for this. In my opinion, the Ministry of Economics has no more important task than saving small business at the moment. All these support mechanisms that you are talking about at the moment and which are not working to the end, mentioned by Mr Vjačeslav Dombrovskis, all this is for the cat under the tail. We have to save the little business right now. And for small businesses, mandatory social contributions, the abolished micro-enterprises' tax regime - these are the most important things. At present, all these organisations, which I have just called, have turned to all the Members of the Saeima, to the ruling parties... turn to everyone with one call - set aside minimum social contributions! This is the main task that the Minister for Economics has to think about right now. Nothing else, everything else can wait. The small business must be saved at this point, and that is what we need to think about. That is what must be the top priority not only for the Ministry of Economics, but for the whole of the government. We must not allow the small business to go bankrupt and the small entrepreneurs to leave the country. There will be no alternative in these circumstances at present. It is inconceivable to me how you can not hear these cries of pain that are now... the burden that is being imposed! Support mechanisms - they do not reach the small businessman. The small entrepreneur, who is concerned about his own small business, will be burdened with a burden that he will not tolerate from 1 July. They will simply stop paying taxes, going into the shadow economy, which many have already done. We also think a little about this very important part of the economy, which has now been neglected. Industrial parks, reindustrialization, new rental houses - that's all... it has to be done, and it will happen... it's already done, you could say... decisions have been made, all this will be for officials to work, but politically we need to think about how to save the small business, and it must be the top priority of the Ministry of Economics. I can't hear about these things at all... your signed paper. It's just... The UKP said a couple of weeks ago that they will now fight for minimum social contributions. Where is the... where is the issue then in the new agreement... for the new government, where is it? In fact, it's forgotten! 1 July - even a month has not been left. All these organisations are asking for this: please leave this decision behind, there is a crisis in the country. Small business has a crisis - cafes, small entrepreneurs... Do you think they're now? There's nothing! They are in crisis at the moment, no one is thinking about them, and it must be the top priority of this government and, above all, of the Minister for Economic Affairs. Colleagues, today's question is not about Janis Witenbergs; it is about the government as a whole. Despite the fact that the number of members of the parties that form the governments is now decreasing (there is no doubt that this will also mean that the influence of the Greens/Earthers Union will only increase in Parliament)... but, nevertheless, we see this as one of the primary issues that should now be dealt with. In order to be successful in future cooperation, I call for this to start thinking now, because this is, in my opinion, one of the main priorities that should now be addressed in the economic field. I urge you to speak to these business organisations. I named the small, but also the large - Employers' Confederation of Latvia, Chamber of Commerce and Industry - home with these flags, talking about it for more than a month. Why don't you hear that? Why don't you hear that, colleagues? You say you listen to business, think about development. Forget these words you're talking about some big matter. The little business is already under water, and we have to pull it out. We will not pull it out with big business parks, the small business needs concrete help, and tax mechanisms are the ones that can give this help, but instead of giving them help, we are pulling even more loops in their neck. And that's not right, colleagues. Therefore, colleagues, today we will not support any of these ministers, because what we do not see in these texts is what we need to do. And I will continue with other ministers, but, my fellow Members, today I call on you to think of the fact that you have broken down only posts, but you have forgotten about works, and what I have mentioned is, in my view, the main priority, which needs an immediate solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U22	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U23	Thank you. Colleagues, good morning! It seems to me that none of the ministers or the old government of Karini, or the new government of Karini, can make a revolution in their industry and in their ministry, and perhaps it is good things, because any revolution begins with destruction and before the beginning of the process of evolution for development. This also applies to the Ministry of Economics and the Minister of Economics. I think you can speak today and... criticise the Ministry of Economics for failing to do so in a number of areas. I would just like to mention housing, which, to be honest, is one of the foundations of the whole economy, not only from an economic point of view, but also from a social point of view. ‘ The new” Wittenberg has mentioned that, here, the construction of housing in regional centres will now be developed. This is welcome, but as it will be, it is quite difficult to see. But what about “old” Wittenberg? With the adoption of the new law on the rental of residential premises, which, to be honest, is not in favour of users, but in favour of those who intend to resume their business in this area... and also with certain restrictions, it's serious about it. Housing policy in general is such a child in the Ministry of Economics, it is regulated by several laws, several hundred regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, but regulated it is very bad, and support for the development and adjustment of housing is weak enough, and I say again: it is all economics... socio-economic basis. But maybe “new” Wittenberg will try to review all these things and start everything from the white page. Hope dies last, as we know. A much more complex and more difficult issue is the second one that I wanted to talk about. It is a question of political responsibility, which is the only responsibility that each of the government's ministers has. What is political responsibility? In a good sense, it would be a responsibility to the whole of society and to the whole of the people, but - ministers represent the relevant political force that has gone to the elections with a specific political agenda and orientations, and defends in the government the compromise in policy-making, the positions of the political group that has been elected... by expressing the confidence of the voter. Here, given that it is the only responsibility which is for the ministers, I would very much like to know how the "new" Janis Witenbergs has to face it - is it the old group elected from the CPV LV, or the new group to which he has joined, to be honest, not receiving the respective electoral mandate for this step? What is... Is that so? How does he understand the concept of political responsibility, and what is it at all... Is it true or not? It turns out that it is. And it is very important, because it was Mr Wittenberg's step, moving from one party to another party, that shook and embroidered their first leadership in Kariņš. The second government now appears, the principles of which have been further shattered and refined. I therefore feel that supporting a government that does not bring political responsibility to the voters is a rather risky step, not only from the present, but also from the principles of the future. It is for me personally that this consideration is central to the decision on how to vote in favour of the nominations proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U24	Mr Ageshin, would you have had enough debate... To break... With nine minutes?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U25	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U26	The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Our group cannot support this candidate, because we know almost nothing about his economic programme, his vision and possible solutions to the problems. We also do not have much information about the candidate's knowledge, skills and skills in the economic field. For example, I would like to hear from Janis Witenbergs a presentation, a vision, a vision of economic adjustment, about the most important works to be done by the Ministry of Economics rather than by other ministries. When it comes to the task of the Minister for Economic Affairs in the near future, I think that the duty of this official, together with the Ministry of Finance, to assess the contribution of public funds to how correctly and efficiently this has been and is being done, including in state capital companies. Energy is another sector for which the Minister of Economics must be responsible and provide concrete solutions and inform the Saeima. There is little talk about this. Of course, there are no few Members in the Saeima who will not allow you, Mr Witenberg, to forget about your previous party's promise, from which you have been elected, to abolish the mandatory procurement components. It has been so far like a hot poplar that you have put from your hand in the government, but there is still no solution. One more question. I do not know your plan for economic recovery, how you will help entrepreneurs (and exactly what businesses, what sectors... or only for individual sectors) and for society as a whole. I think Jānis Vitenbergs will unfortunately be approved as a minister today, largely because he has changed his political membership and is now a member of the National Alliance. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind everyone that there is a people's wisdom: he who betrays once will be betrayed again. You can’t rely on such a difficult moment. I think, however, that the public would like to see in this position professionally with a deep understanding of the economy, both in general and in the Latvian economy. A person with education and experience. In my opinion, we have no shortage of professionals in the economy and business in Latvia. To vote in favour means to take responsibility for the candidate. We cannot take responsibility for Janis Witenbergs, but at the same time I can assure you that we are thinking state-owned and draft laws that tackle various problems in our country in a time of crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U28	Mr. Gobzem, would you have six minutes?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U29	No, I don't have to.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U30	Dear colleagues, So we will continue the debate after the break. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U31	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. Thus, the draft decision on the expression of trust to the Minister for Economic Affairs Janis Vitenbergs is on the agenda. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U32	Hello, Latvian people! Hello, Saeima Colleagues! My question is actually about the approval of a new government... I'll probably only speak once this time. I want to tell you three associations that I have in connection with the approval of the government. First. President of the Republic of Latvia Levit increasingly begins to remind Alberta Kvies... or had to be taken into account at the time of the election. I don't know. Such an association arises in the light of how easily this President or the President's article permits one after another to depart from the Constitution of the country's main basic document, and in general, non-democratic principles are a business card of this President. The nomination of the new ministers was actually an authoritarian renaissance. The exiles for Latvians, including Kariņš, have historically been nostalgia after Ulmanipus and authoritarianism. Now Karin knowingly or not - I don't know it either - but has shown that he is ready to use the same way. Ministers are nominated without public consultation, in a narrow circle, Sigulda, among other things, at the meeting of Sigulda Zakaistov and Raivis Dzintārs. And not just seeing you. Without calling the opposition. The utopia of such a leader. But that's what happens. The second association follows. The majority of contemporary Latvian politicians, however, are (and the multipoint required here)... Well, how do you get it out of the way? But in principle, we would like to use "poor persons with reduced social responsibility". How easy it is for one’s own sacrifices to remain in power. Well, it's not that I'm sorry for Mrs Šuplinska, because as a minister she was a disaster, but generally it seems that it was easy to sacrifice Long, not to mention Sandy Ģirgen and Ramon Petravič. Without any elegance. Without political motivation. No charm. As old shoes or as waste bags - impervious, began to squeeze and... throw it in the trash! Without cleaning, without carrying the shoe, it is easy to throw into the trash. I own it. And it is without elegance and without subtlety. This is the majority of contemporary Latvian politicians, politicians in power. And the third. And the third one is about the Saeima. This association will either be approved or not today. It is likely to be confirmed, as has always been confirmed by what I have said from the parliamentary tribunal. It depends on you, parliamentary colleagues. If this government, this actually new government, is approved today, then I believe that the majority of the Members present here at this remote parliamentary sitting are puppets. Well, they're going to have super-reported puppets that can be used to entertain people or some other performance, but without decisiveness. Handcuffs, pot-pressors and screen-plugpers. I do not even know whether most of my fellow Members are still alive, or whether some still have such a deepfaque, or a deep false hologram. The approval of this government very much reminds the PSCP Congress... The Soviet Socialist Republic... at the convention. Hands down and go to your college. The Marionite Saeima. Don't be like this, colleagues. Do not allow people to steal the right to participate in political processes. Be honest and give the time to draw, squander and choose the best candidates, not to squander in the Ministry of Education and Science the next Mrs Tuduma or Mr or to approve the Minister of Economics "the most delicious ice blower", let alone the candidate of the Minister of Interior, who would like to know, by the way, whether there is any tolerance at all for state secrets and how she will gain authority in this very men's system. All right. Just to be interested. My vote after this speech is clear. I do not support Krišjani Kariņa, and I do not support a political cartel that agrees on their own in a narrow circle in Sigulda, setting others in their own hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U33	The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U34	Hello, the honourable head of the Saeima sitting! Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Prime Minister! I would like to begin with a few words of thanks. First and foremost, I would like to thank our ministers, who, in their field of responsibility, have achieved a great deal, including many changes that have never, ever been encouraged, or have been set aside further on a shelf for a lack of political will. The next thank you, Mr Kariņš, for what I want to say. Thank you for giving us a very wonderful gift before the municipal elections. This gift really helped us so that we could demonstrate how far the sovereign power of the country went, especially when it comes to contractual obligations and their observance. No, after this announcement that we would no longer be part of the government, we did not cry in cushions at night, we did not go, we did not bury the ash on our head, we realized that this was the beginning of a new road. We can now fully and fully carry out our Member's oath and act in accordance with our Member's status. If, so far, our justification for exclusion, which Mr Domburs's programme yesterday, with the participation of a new, stable government, potentially stable government, with representatives... it has been mentioned that our group has always been unpredictable, that our votes have always been different, and in the end, the fact that only one of the groups supported the government was mentioned as the main argument. And instead it would be a reminder that the lack of any argument always leads to a very elemental folly, and in this case its folly was very obvious, because the argument that there was no vote in any way can be a reason, say, for creating this instability in the country and government. Against this background, we understood that by acting nationalally and to a certain extent removing political tensions from our own candidate who could come from the ranks of the party, knowing and taking... by showing some acceptance, we nominated our independent candidate. Unfortunately, it has to be admitted that here, however, the willingness of the cooperation partners to go into their “blist” has appeared, which has a little understanding of both the economy and has shown what he can do in his life. As I said to my colleagues at that time, we can talk a lot about the fact that professionals should be involved in the work of governments... This has shown openly that no one needs a professional. The most important thing is the party's membership, the beautiful look, teaching the beautiful talk, the desire to promise a full range of potential benefits and, in power, to forget all the promises when we get to office. Next, what I'd like to say. We are now looking at the position of the new Minister for Economic Affairs, the new Minister for Economic Affairs, the "old" Minister for Economic Affairs. It is very often popular to say that people who take the lead positions always say: I did it, I did it by forgetting about the team behind the back that helped them do it. Yes, I also heard yesterday from Domburs's programme, mentioned above, that "old" Mr. Witenberg turned into "new" Mr. Wittenberg and decided to start from the National Association with the argument that the National Association has greater transmission capacity. Yes, maybe they are, but in their own interests. And here we see already the first and most important loss of transmission capacity. And specifically this is the case of OIC. The Cabinet had already been developed... The Ministry had already drawn up regulations that had to be passed on to the Cabinet. Some time has already passed, and these rules are still in the box, sleeping. There was a story about poor quality development, yet to be redrafted. Well then it turns out that there is a need for recycling. Obviously, the purpose of the new persector to be broken has changed... no longer the dismantling of the unfair OIC system. That is why we have also spoken so strongly about maintaining the Ministry under our responsibility in the first Karini government that we took political responsibility for the areas that we represented. That is why we were very often hit, and our ministers in all their forms have fought. Even though Mrs. Petraviča was guilty of all the sins... that the crowds of people die in nursing homes, because they see the Ministry of Welfare without vaccination. It would be good if those vaccines were bought at that time and could afford it. But when we mentioned it, everything quieted down, and we were told for hours about current schemes, current work processes, current offices, and current expenses. Returning to the question under consideration. In my opinion, one of the main objectives at the moment is to achieve in their hands the largest possible financial block to be managed. That is, according to our estimates, about seven billion euros, which will soon enter the Latvian economy. Whether today's persuasioners are those who can do this for the benefit of citizens and the economy, I have great doubts, because we see that, thanks to these transit capacities, our farmers have the lowest direct payments from the European Union, our forest wealth is still being brought out without added value, particularly added value. And these facts are known, it has also been established by the State Audit Office. There are a lot of things that have been discussed so far in the former coalition, and we, as obedient contractual entities, were forced to give up and sometimes vote against our conscience only because we were told that the stability of the government depends on it, it depends on whether or not more people will die on the community, it depends on very many processes, and it depends on whether to keep the lists only for one month or not, after some very long time, when the people are damaged and no longer... is ready for unrest. So there are a lot of decisions that had to be made with a hard heart, and I would really like to thank Mr Kariņš once again for giving him the opportunity to get rid of this burden, of these contractual obligations. Finally, we can show why we are here, and we will certainly do this both in the last days before the municipal elections, convincing people to evaluate the efforts and promises of the political forces, and trying to understand how we work on this, because this was a very great duty on the part of the coalition partners - that no one was willing to call, no matter what, my fellow Members, to have a direct conversation and to say: know what - you are little brothers, you do not understand anything from politics, you are not able to do big things, maybe you will tell yourself that, forgiveness, continue, big guys, we will live on the edge. Unfortunately, none of the people whom I started to know to some extent as promised gentlemen and ladies who conquered in my eyes a certain degree of loyalty and credibility were, in fact, able to destroy this conviction in a short space of time. And thank them for that. Perhaps the time was right to see it. I would like to conclude by saying that, at the moment, we will really work as normal as Members. And one little thing, the new... The government coalition created is actually... and the stability of the coalition is very and directly dependent on the speed of the judiciary. It may be evaluated by any of the viewers, listeners, who make up this stability government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U35	The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U36	Hello, dear colleagues! Listening to this whole thing, these merciful speeches from... Also from “new” and “old” Wittenberg, as he himself mentioned... Yet, people do not find it clear how they should continue to live. Even though we can take the example of cutting-off benefits or subsidies at the moment. At the time, there is already 3 June and people still have not even been paid the cut-off allowance for April. I would like to see the Minister feel as though he, for example, had not been paid his salary for two months. Of course, we see these savings, which are not being reduced in particular and their origin should be discussed, but at the moment we should talk more about what people are getting from this whole thing after these Sigulda negotiations, in which the National Association, and also Mr Witenberg and Mr Zakatistov, took part. Neither have we received an answer from them, which has been discussed and what are the next steps. I very much hope that these speeches looked at how to advance further economic development, where only citizens would benefit. But these doubts about what might be said in these speeches... I think that this was not the primary one, but, as we can see, the plan of shifts is already being implemented. And, of course, Wittenberg could have already promised a start in Zemgale in the next elections with the first numbers. Of course, it is important for someone to have these posts and chairs, while others are interested in representing the interests of the people. Personally, I would like to say to Mr Asheraden after yesterday's talks about these chairs and the warnings about the commission chair, but I would like to mention that not all people are holding on to their chairs and not everyone needs power. But I understand that the strategy that you all have developed does not always come true. First of all, count the number of Members who support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U37	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U38	Dear colleagues, I understand that Mr Kariņš, when he presented Mr Wittenberg's "new"-"old one, forgot to say that he simply wanted to return the minister stolen by the National Alliance. And this is not about any development or reindustrialisation, or something further. In commenting a little on these revelations, which today are in a rather broad range, I would like to read to Mr Možvillo the code of ethics for Members of the Saeima. Article 6 of the Code of Conduct states: “The Member is morally responsible for his actions (languages, votes, etc.). A Member may not plead pressure from government representatives, parties or other persons to justify a vote against his conscience.’ What we have heard from Mr Možvillo clearly shows that Mr Možvillo and his fellow Members have obviously not taken the oath, because only when this support for Karins' government is no longer available will the oath of the Member be taken. And that's clear... I understand that those Members of the Saeima who continue to support the government cannot take their oath, because they will always have to vote against the will of the people, and their votes will only be, as we have heard from Mr Možville, based on mistakes, perhaps under pressure from the ruling coalition in the hope that these promises will perhaps lead to something good. However, the same paragraph 6 of the ethical code also contains the last sentence, which states: “The Member recognises his mistakes and tries to correct them.” There has been an opportunity to correct the mistakes of those who, in fact, with a hard heart, as we have heard, have participated in the whole of this nation's destruction, both by voting for the 'yes' that we have to do what people have to do in terms of reducing the various benefits, and by voting 'yes' on how to sort goods, and by voting 'yes' on how to sort people as well. We will see how these colleagues, who are currently on the opposition side, will be able to correct their mistakes. If necessary, we can help, but it is very sad to hear that people, as adults, supported their votes in error and in some naive hope that these decisions would lead to something good. But if we were to keep a little bit behind Mr Witenberg's achievements, then it is really sad to me to see that Mr Witenberg, as my fellow Member has already pointed out, did not mention for any moment that the OIC could finally start to liquidate. So there is nothing to suggest that something could be moved in that direction, and now it is absolutely clear that nothing will be done with Mr Witenberg joining a new political force right now. It is only surprising that Mr Wittenberg, who has joined the National Association, which as if supports families, is as if working on family support policies and especially - especially! - honoring many children's families, at least that may have looked like... Mr Witenberg has now made a new statement that support for large families for electricity bills will be reduced from 1 September. We remember how we worked 12. In the family at the extension of the protected user range. It was a socially responsible policy for electricity users by selling a particular amount of electricity at a reduced price to protected persons, so these were both the Group I disabled, which we achieved, and children with disabilities, large families, and this amount of discount for large families was added to 15 euros. At the moment, Mr Wittenberg is proud to announce that he has achieved all these support measures, and he has achieved that many children's family activities will now receive concessions not EUR 15, but EUR 10. Well, it is really a fantastic policy, and indeed it is a welcome action from Mr Wittenberg when he re-enters this post, especially given that he comes from the National Association. Thank you, of course, I am aware that one year ago Mr Wittenberg, when he took up his post, had very much hope that the Ministry of Economics would finally be able to deal with the issue of cut-off benefits. We remember that the end-benefits were just moving towards at least entrepreneurs, but at the moment we see that all the end-benefit policies have failed. People have great problems at the moment and what we have heard both in winter and autumn with regard to various restrictions, what we have heard with regard to the justification of the restrictions is not going through criticism if we are talking about the rhetoric of the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Economic Affairs. That is why we will be voting with colleagues... Yes, we will vote against the candidacy of the Minister. He has unfortunately not met those expectations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U39	The name to Member Eric Pucen for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U40	Hello, colleagues! Once again, I also wanted to add a little bit to this transfer ability, which is what the National Association has mentioned, but I think these are just words, because we know that in the regions and all of Latvia there were Europeanrlament elections and Roberts Zīle... how he zealously told how he would go to defend Latvian farmers, defend Latvia's economy, and we see where he came from. He did not come to represent us, as he had promised, because they already had the Ministry of Agriculture with Mr. Gerhard and could defend them. These promises were empty, these works were not done, and we have come to where we are - in the European Union last place in direct payments. And then we do not have to be surprised that we see in our stores Maxima, Rimi, that tomatoes are brought from the Netherlands and are still cheaper, because it is really our economy, that our aid payments are much smaller, and that people and businesses from the European Union have the opportunity to bring, they bring cheaper, and it is also a waste of our rural areas. John himself has come from the countryside, he has seen and worked in this field - with fruits, with vegetables. John, you should understand that, and I hope this will be one of your first works that you will talk to Kaspars Gerhard if you can find him... the only thing, and with Robert Zile, about our farmers, about our regions. Our families are behind these regions, and the value of your party is the family. Well, let's see, John, how do you do? So this is one of the first tasks, John, which you should take. Good luck to you!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U41	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U42	Listening to all of this - how the ruling coalition tries to justify the choice of its ministers, their eligibility for the post - I have an anecdotes coming to my mind about how a student tried to take the exam. He comes to the table, pulls out the ticket, looks at the examining commission, looks at the chairman of the commission, and asks: “May I do, I will do another ticket?” The President of the Commission says: "Well, well, you can." The student looks carefully at the table, explores, explores the table with tickets, pulls out the next ticket, looks at the ticket, looks at the commission president and asks: “May I do another ticket?” The President of the Commission says: “OK, put another ticket.” A student withdraws another ticket, looks at the chairman of the commission and says, “May I take another ticket?” The commission president says: “No, don’t. Give me your listing book!” To the surprise of everyone, he writes in the book that he has counted, the exam is set, which of course, colleagues then ask him: “Why? Why is he counted? Why has he been credited?’ The head of the commission answers: “Well, you saw how he tried to get the ticket out, wanted the right ticket, so he knew something. So he knew something!” On the same basis, this government chooses its own ministers. The result, of course... The result is, of course, catastrophic. Therefore, in order to avoid misunderstandings, the Group will vote against these ministers because we believe that this government, this government by Krišjānis Kariņš, is a disaster for Latvia. They are not fulfilling any of their promises, simply lying, continuing to lie, continuing to promise, because unfortunately, the political situation that it has now developed allows those in power not to fulfill their promises, to do whatever they want, because they know that they will not have to be held accountable. A change of power is not possible thanks to these red lines, which would not be possible in a normal democratic country. As a result, Latvia does not, by nature, function as a democratic state, because the most important thing in a democratic state is that it is effective in order for democracy to be an effective instrument of public administration must be a change of power, i.e. political responsibility. If you're in power and don't do what you have promised or can't do it, then just change you. Someone else comes to your place and is in power as long as he is able to fulfill what he has promised. In this way, the wheel of political competition begins to turn, which makes power increasingly responsible and more capable. We've had this wheel soaked, it's stuck deep, deep into mud, and it's continuing to sink. That is also the main reason why Latvia is still lagging behind its neighbours Lithuania and Estonia. Unfortunately, nothing will change, just the little ones and the evil ones will replace the other little ones and the evil ones and not the way you saw... of what would be better for the state, but better for them so that they can stick together to power, because they understand that such evils and little ones as they are... The only place they can find for themselves a job... is in this way, otherwise they will simply be wiped out in a political dung. For those who want to continue the path of the destruction of our country, support such ministers, support the order of such things. We will not support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U43	I closed the debate. Mr. Karins, do you want to add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U44	Thank you, colleagues, for the debate. But there's one thing to say. First of all, I really feel that Members of the Saeima Tribunal can actually talk bad about our country, always travel wrong in fact... and the false news that everything really is bad. It is not all wrong for us, and once again this denial of ourselves in our country should simply end. We compare ourselves, of course, with our neighbours, and it is true that, in this crisis, neighbouring economies have been more resilient and with a smaller drop than our own. But the reason is deeply structural and long-lasting, that is, we in our country with this long-standing fifteen... The twenty-year policy that cheap transit will bring us to the sun, we are suffering. We therefore need to change all our policies, introduce reindustrialisation, develop our exporting companies - that is the key that we will not only, as we say, get to the point where our neighbours, but I am sure our country has more potential than our two immediate neighbours in the north and the south. Why? Because the people of our country are so indifferent and that's the energy! If we do the right work to create the ground for this investment, our people have proved in all areas that we are extremely capable. And by going on the so-called smart reindustrialisation or export industry... in support and promotion - this is what will really build us in the sun. And that is, of course, the fundamental task that the Minister for Economics also has. We've talked to him about this. We will also look at how we will be able to ensure this progress in 2022 when we look at the budgetary process. We have already made a decision that corresponds, now, to the European Recovery Fund, that more than EUR 1.3 billion is directly planned to develop this policy. So together, colleagues, with the ministers of the government and, of course, with the Members of the Saeima, we are going to go and build our country in the sun, but I call on us to stop denying ourselves... recognise that we are, in fact, a very capable country and realise all our positive potential together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U45	Thank you, colleagues. Let's vote! Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On Expression of Trust by Minister for Economics Janis Vitenbergs”! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Congratulations to Minister for Economics Janis Witenbergs. On the agenda - draft decision on the expression of trust to the Minister for the Interior Marija Golubeva. Name to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U46	Thank you, my fellow Members, for the previous vote. Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, Honourable Members! Colleagues Ministers! We have the next candidate for the Minister for the Interior. The home affairs system, as one of the three, could be said to be large systems - we have a block of education, we have a block of health, we have a block of home affairs - undoubtedly there is a huge challenge for all of us. So far, the Ministry of the Interior and the Minister have developed, we have accepted and are already investing money directly to improve infrastructure, creating new deposit for the reconstruction of the police stations in Riga. I think that this is a very good job done, and thank you, of course, to the Minister that has been doing this up to now. But we need to look now further at how we can further improve police work. And one of the foundations is to improve qualifications or provide education. We now have a bit fragmented preparation of the police in the country. A very important piece of work to be carried out, and one that can be intertwined before the next parliamentary elections, is specifically training and training in the field of police training. We also have a challenge that is increasingly expressed in our country's press, unfortunately, about the constant difficulties and the problem that we have in our country - about domestic violence, about violence against women. And it also seems very important to me that the government pays greater attention to this, because this situation must first be understood, recognised and then corrected. As candidates, I offer Maria Golubeva, whom you, colleagues, know well as your parliamentary colleagues. She's running a group right now. In my opinion, this shows well that she is able to lead and shape dialogue. This is not irrelevant to any politician, especially to any minister. She also works in parallel with the National Security Commission. So she has no foreign security issues and topicalities as such, she follows in a very narrow circle of Saeima Members on all the most important issues in this area that we have in our country. And she also, of course, has professional experience in the fight against domestic violence and against women. I call on you, colleagues, to support the candidate for the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U47	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U48	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Mr. Prime Minister! Colleagues! I thank Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš for his invitation to take on the role of Minister of the Interior and colleagues in the "Development/Par!" Group. - on the nomination of this work. My job will be key words: humanity, reforms and cooperation. Humanity. My main task in this work will be to increase respect, trust and cooperation between the home affairs system and society as a whole. To create modern and good working and growth conditions for all 13,000 people serving their country in home affairs. Only well-educated and trained, properly paid and crewed professionals can build a safe country within the service. Good support for professionals helps to develop a more humane attitude. For example, children and young people, who should be protected from crime before being punished. This means combating human trafficking and taking care of the victims of domestic violence and hate crimes. Avoid humanely, too, asylum seekers who, while fleeing from death or repression, have reached our country. Reform. I will continue with the structural reforms in the home affairs system, which are being developed in cooperation with the European Commission. The national police structure needs to be streamlined both in the centre and in the regions. Fragmentation and uncharacteristic tasks for the police need to be reduced. Reforms, equiping services with modern technologies and increasing the attractiveness and attractiveness of work require the involvement, training and retention of good staff. The police response capacity and its presence and visibility in society will then increase. To work best in the home affairs system, police education and training systems need to be put in place and wage competitiveness gradually ensured with public administration and defence work. Allow me to mention a few more tasks: the quality and speed of pre-trial investigations, the reform of education and training for service workers, the response capacity of the civil protection system, the capacity of the environment, economic and cyber crime. According to a recent survey conducted by the Ministry of the Interior, people who have not experienced the work of the State Police recently trust it more than people who have experienced it in practice. This must be exactly the opposite: our common task is to increase the quality of communication between all home affairs and citizens. This is both a question of training, of staff policy and of organisation. This change I consider to be one of the most important tasks of the home affairs system. Cooperation. One very important principle of our work will be cooperation with other ministries and sectors, in particular with the Ministry of Justice, in order to raise the quality of pre-trial investigations and implement the e-case solution. Cooperation with the Ministry of Defence in improving police capability to prevent and combat cybercrime. Cooperation with municipalities in implementing institutional infrastructure management and after the adoption of new municipal law - also better cooperation in solving public order, fire safety and civil crises. Cooperation with NGO communities, neighbourhoods, communities in the area of home affairs - from crime prevention and safe neighbourhoods to humane treatment of asylum seekers. Cooperation with colleagues in Europe to jointly develop solutions to major cross-border problems, from cyber crime and hybrid threats to interoperable databases and artificial intelligence applications. The State Border Guard also plays a critical role in cooperation with partners in the special task of protecting the external borders of the European Union. The eastern border of Latvia is not only the forefront of international organised crime and migration control, but also national security. Without an interoperable European home information system, it will not be possible to effectively control migration and prevent cross-border crime in Europe. The common internal policy of the European Union is not a foreign policy but an integral part of the internal policy of our country, and it must also be reflected in the work of the ministries and, of course, in cooperation with the Saeima. I believe in parliamentary democracy, I will be open to dialogue with the Saeima and with you, my fellow Members, on all the most important issues, and there will be a lot of such in the future under review: amendments to the law on police, the law on asylum, the law on operational activities and others. I am ready to work for the government of Krišjānis Kariņš. Please support my candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U49	Thank you. The name to Anda Chakša.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U50	Dear colleagues, In Latvia, every third woman suffers from violence, which can be concluded from the data of the European Union study. The violence currently registered in Latvia does not necessarily reflect such a situation. In the case of violence, there is a very clear correlation that victims of violence seek help only if they trust the system. Unfortunately, my observation shows that we still have a very high tolerance to the more violent and at the same time there is the fault of the victims, whether it be sexual exploitation or emotional violence, or any other form of violence. This calls for a targeted focus on this issue. The cultural turning of the home system in this direction is important. Maria Golubeva has proved herself to be the most vulnerable parts of society. I would call on Marija Golubeva to pay serious attention to the reduction of violence. No less important is the gender bias that we have experienced since the nomination of ministers. This is the Saeima, where almost 30 percent of the elected Members are women. Unfortunately, politics is still a male club in Latvia, and every position in which a woman is nominated is subject to much more cruel discussion than in the case of an equivalent male candidate. Women are often involved in this consultation and solidarity disappears somewhere. On behalf of the new Unity, I would like to express my full support for Mary's courage to go to the unknown. I respectfully look at the political force that allowed such coolness to be put to the post of Minister for the Interior, Marija Golubev. It's only the second time in Latvia's policy when home affairs ministers become a woman. It is courageous and gives a great deal of confidence to many women in Latvia that the issue of gender equality, although very slowly, is moving forward. My trip to Maria Golubeva - to see the good that has been done so far in the Ministry of the Interior, and to bring a culture of abuse that supports gender equality across the whole home system, integrate and strengthen it, strengthen, educate and enhance the prestige of the home system. At a time when anyone without prejudice will seek first aid in the home system, let us take a huge step towards public security. Good luck, Mary! Thank you all.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U51	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U52	Dear Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, The outstanding Russian literary, fableist Ivan Krilov, who also worked in Riga in the 19th century, has written a single sentence about the wolf and lamb. When the wolf catches the lamb, the latter begins to complain, “Why have you caught me, by whom am I guilty?” And the wolf answers to this lamb, “You are guilty only of having an appetite.” In fact, 13. The second largest party elected by the Saeima was KPV LV, with 16 members, but with time it became weaker. And colleagues decided to eat it and actually started to deal with political marodiarism. Unfortunately, they were also given a helping hand in that process by the guarantor of the national constitution. I am very sorry that the current political situation in Latvia is a reminder not of Ulmanian times, but of the weaker stage of Latvian parliamentaryism, namely 13. The family is as fragmented as for example 4. The Saeima. We have all kinds of small-scalers, small-scales, Zionists, reformists and so on, and so on. In fact, the Saeima works around a dozen different political groups and para-fractions, just as there are psychologists and para-sychologists. I have been working in politics like Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš and Jānis Reirs since 2002. Perhaps colleagues also remember that there was such a tradition in the Saeima to establish parties during one term... to set up new political groups, such as the “civil union” - they entered into the ruins of the “new time”, then transformed and founded the Unity, then the New Unity, but the Saeima adopted a new version of the Rules of Procedure, which prohibits the establishment of new political groups within the framework of one Saeima. But what do we see now? We are actually seeing a para-fraction led by Atis Zakaitistov. This group has no name, no name... Let's say that, not your room, not your phone number, but they work as a political power. It works illegally, in fact in violation of the parliamentary roll of order regarding the work of the political groups. I am very interested in what is now KPV LV and the New Unity. Both of these parties have quite a similar number of Members in the Saeima - five six Members, but they do not know why the New Unity has three items in the Cabinet of Ministers (and one of them is the post of Prime Minister), while the minority shareholders, “KPV LV”, take away two existing items. In particular, with regard to the home affairs sector, I can say that, unfortunately, he did not leave a very good legacy to the next minister. There is no explanation of the processes of loud crime; unfortunately, new figurs appear in scandals at the Ministry of the Interior. This is about possible corruption and money laundering in the police. This was not handled by former Minister Ģirgen. But I would like to ask: is the Minister's candidate, Mrs Golubeva, having political weight to manage such a large and complex ministry, which is, in fact, the largest power structure restaurant in our country? I think that in Latvia the Head of our Ministry of the Interior should be as politically neutral as possible, but Maria Golubeva represents one certain political position, is very active in positioning himself as a defender and activist of individual groups. It is unlikely that this could increase her authority among colleagues at the Ministry of the Interior. Another factor. The new minister will immediately launch the replacement of staff in the home structures. Former Minister Sandis Ģirgens will hardly be able to retain his post as Chief of State Police, Mr Ruka, who was directly motivated to take part in this post. And the other heads of the structures are likely to be replaced. What can end this kind of crash in the Ministry of the Interior? The fact that in fact all departments will only deal with frame rotation and the rest, forgetting about their direct responsibilities. It is a pity that, in the current difficult situation of the coronavirus, our Ministry of the Interior is being weakened by a political commissioner... name in place of the Minister. But returning to the common political scene in Latvia, I can say that unfortunately our political system shows its incompetentness in this turn. Of course, there is a need to change ministers, but I think that instead of ministers, there should be professionals, not political commissioners. And if we are in favour of democracy, rather we need to move towards a small system, where every Member has a personal responsibility for his or her position and for his or her work, and that voters can withdraw politicians who deceive them and embarrass Latvia's democracy, which is unfortunately what is happening at the moment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U53	The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U54	Hello, colleagues! So personally, I can definitely say that Sandis Ģirgen was the best Minister for the Interior, at least what I remember like the Ministers for the Interior for us, because much more has been done in these two years... which others have not been able to do in four or even eight years. Even though we can take this funding as an example, which will now come from European Union funds... which will amount to more than EUR 200 million. Similarly, work on competitive remuneration has certainly already been started, which is a very powerful incentive measure in the home system, because it can be seen how, over these years, it is the remuneration system that has been weakened in relation to even the same Ministry of Defence. Very ambitious projects have also been launched, even if for example, the construction of the depot in the regions: eight pieces, apart from an additional deposit. And the new minister will only need to turn the tape. There has also been, let us say, a reform with the creation of the new police buildings, because we have all seen in the 'Dangered Method', how terrible all this looks at right now. And this year, when nothing was done... Work has also started on the creation of an Academy of Digitalisation and Security. But each of us... We're definitely... also reads the reports on the reorganisation of the State Police and the capture of unscrupulous officials, which is a great success, the success of the former Minister of Interior. I believe that in fact Sandis Ģirgens has been one of the best home affairs ministers. I would definitely also like to see him further in this post if there is a possibility. But right now, I wish the new Minister for the Interior to continue the reforms that have been undertaken and to motivate employees not to leave, let's say, the Ministry of the Interior system. The challenges will be very great. But, of course, I see a very high risk at the moment that such political parties without experience and knowledge in this area are being directed towards such a responsible position. The changes were visible, but whether they will continue, unfortunately, I find it difficult to see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U55	The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U56	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Mr. Prime Minister! Say hello again! Well, I have to say, the Ministry of the Interior is a very specific Ministry. In fact, this ministry is directly responsible for our internal security. All services that are directly related to the Ministry of the Interior, its subordinate institutions and so on in this case are vital for our daily life... thinking specifically about our daily safety. Cooperation, various other visions, of course, are important first and foremost, but not first and foremost, say, the slogan and the setting. Cooperation in the Cabinet of Ministers takes place in itself. Thus, the future Minister or candidate for the position of Minister has to understand such a system that the Minister of the Interior comes to the Cabinet of Ministers in different formats, informs the members of the Cabinet of Ministers, comes with changes to laws and, of course, the Cabinet of Ministers takes collegial decisions in this case. I have already said that I will be speaking for every minister that is currently being proposed by the Prime Minister this time, and will also make my assessment. I must say that in this case, I will not support the ministers in any way. That moment and aspect, in the context of an understanding of this institution, obviously still need to be improved. The Minister's candidate is very grateful for his outlined vision. And I must say that this kind of professional cooperation in the context of the Saeima has not really overlapd with us, so I cannot criticise it. These are a number of issues in which I have heard a candidate speak in public debate; they have more to do with education issues, same-sex couples' rights and children's rights, but they were not directly related to home affairs. At the moment, I also heard nothing directly related to the analysis of work in the State Police, the State Fire and Rescue Service, the State Security Service, the Information Centre, the State Border Guard, the Financial Intelligence Service, the Office for Internal Security and other bodies. I think that this is, however, a very, very specific position. I am surprised, of course, that the Prime Minister, in this case, is directing a candidate who is obviously concerned only with political agreement this time, but who is not concerned with professional qualities and even previous experience. Yes, of course, experience can be "attracted" and I also see, in public interviews, that a person has worked and has received good education, but has not received education in the immediate context of either law or... where else with home affairs. That is why the support of such a candidate is, in my opinion, hasty. If you look at what the Minister for the Interior, Sandis Ģirgens, has done in the past... And I have had the honor and, to be honest, also the pleasure of working with this person earlier in my professional career and also, among other things, after we had come to the Commission, for example, to examine a number of proposals directly coming from the Ministry of the Interior... I have to say, the changes that the Minister for the Interior, Sandis Ģirgens, had not, to be honest, been in the past perhaps even at all. It is also very welcome, most importantly... First of all, it is an employee of the Ministry of the Interior, a state policeman, a firefighter, a rescue service officer and other people who really work in this system and have said positive words. The second important thing is that public security in the various mass events that have now taken place, including the 9 May event, where the potential for gathering was large enough... Both in 2019 and 2020 and in 2021 these risks were all analysed and people were protected against the safety of the epidemiological risks. It must therefore be said that this work was excellent. If we are talking about the reforms that have been undertaken, then I would like to say that they are fundamental. Thank you very much to Sandy-Girgen. If he is listening right now - thank you for the start of the modernisation of the State Fire and Rescue Service depot, which, to be honest, is now in a very sad situation in certain regions and cities. Police departments in Riga, reforms... As a result, this work has also moved from a place where several compartments could be combined. The police have new forms, they used to walk in the stomach, unfortunately, and that is what we saw, colleagues, themselves on the streets. Former ministers had not achieved this in new forms. Very, very big breakthrough has happened. In addition, I would like to say that, at the moment when the Central Land Commission is being dismantled, we have reached an economic decision when we are working on it - to hand over both furniture and machinery, which are in a very, very good position... In this case, even then, the Minister of the Interior, Sandis Ģirgens, took the initiative and wanted to take care of the improvement of the working environment of the staff of the Ministry of the Interior by even such a gesture of good will. Thus, both in large visions and in small work plans, this man has really worked with the heart and soul and has been in his own place - the Ministry of the Interior as the Minister of the Interior. These political shifts raise the question of what kind of electoral system we are in when another politically dependent person is replaced, but undoubtedly a much better professional in his post. Consequently, we ourselves are in our own electoral systems in such a way that they are in the gulfs and traps. Therefore, of course, looking back at the reforms that have already been undertaken, including, among other things, a very important reform - the reconstruction of the internal security Academy... As a lawyer, who has graduated from the University of Latvia, for which I am also very proud of getting good quality education... However, the Ministry of the Interior... Let us say that home affairs workers need specific knowledge. And in this case the University of Latvia may not be as much an institution with practical application knowledge as could be an internal security academy, whose reconstruction was put on the agenda by the Minister of Interior as his priority. Whatever the next minister is, he will certainly walk around, make ribbons and be proud of the work done by the previous minister. We will all see this: none of the staff of the Ministry of the Interior and those working in the structures are fools and will therefore understand very well who has started the reforms and who will probably just want to close them. So in this case, comparing candidates and not thinking emotionally or... Looking at this political process, it is clear to understand that a very good candidate is being replaced by a representative of another force, so, in fact, just because there is an agreement, and indeed very well understanding what issues the Minister of the Interior comes to the Cabinet of Ministers, in which institution he works, how difficult working conditions are. We have already inherited that system, including a large part... from the times of the USSR. And changes very difficult to make... Kadri... frame rotation, as we know, well, senior officials aren't as big as it is, for example, the lowest... people with lower levels of service, because in fact the issue of pay has not been addressed for a long time, which should definitely be returned. Hence, many work has certainly begun. Thank you very much to the Minister for the Interior for his work. Although I would like to wish the new minister, whatever it may be, to continue to do so, I think that in this case I cannot support this candidate exactly for that reason... It is not a matter of political affiliation, but - I do not see professional quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U57	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U58	High Prime Minister! Colleagues! Dear colleague, Maria Golubeva! In the Saeima, I know you as a constructive and balanced colleague, and I am very pleased that you are going to the new challenges today and to a new level. But I can't tell you that I know you as a knowledgeable person in the field of education. I am talking both about your remarkable experience before the work of this Saeima, and also about 13. In the family, your main job was in the Education, Culture and Science Commission, and it was, I understood, your choice. Therefore, Mary, if you were to stand as Minister for Education and Science today, I would support you with both hands, despite the fact that in this, 13th Saeima I am in opposition. With all this in mind, unfortunately, I cannot support you today, but I will also not vote against. For the previous Minister, Sandy Ģirgen. I had the opportunity to see him at the time of adoption of the budget at the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. I can say that this was one of the relatively rare, few in this government... Well, yes, really the rare ministers who talked about their own problems, not driven their own officials to speak. It was evident that he was very well focused on the specifics of his field, challenges, problems, offered solutions, the ability to explain and justify why the proposed solutions are better. The fact that Sandis Ģirgens cannot continue to serve as the Minister for the Interior is, of course, the full responsibility of his party members, members of the political group, members of the CPV LV. That, my fellow Members, is all about you. I would also like to ask Prime Minister Kariņš a question again. Prime Minister, you are claiming Maria Golubeva as the best candidate for the post of Minister for the Interior... It came from your words that the home system, well, almost the top priority... And these areas... There's violence against women... It is clearly a serious problem, but is it really a top priority, a main problem when it comes to what is happening to us in the area of home affairs? For us in recent months, we have been shocked by loud crimes in the country, which shows that foreign balloons seem to feel in Latvia, as a shooting machine, without any consequences... It is fully convinced that our law enforcement authorities will not be able to catch them or solve their crimes. Such loud and unsolved crime is becoming more and more. There are also a number of loud cases in other areas - corruption - which have been closed, and prosecutors of the prosecutor's office are already quite openly talking about the capacity and competence of the law enforcement authorities to work. That is why, at a time when a number of police officers - which I am certainly aware of - are also working on their basic work as instructors in bus schools, I think you, Prime Minister, have a rather inadequate idea of what are its most acute problems and challenges in the home system. Prime Minister, if there is a change of four ministers today and there are some candidates here... Maria Golubeva is an expert in the field of education - or her professional knowledge... would they have no place in the Ministry of Education and Science? Why did you choose to build your team, not to make a professional, educational professional, Ministry of Education and Science, but to put him in the Ministry of the Interior? Where's the logic here, Prime Minister? In turn, Gatis Eglitis is known as, well, quite a good economist. Would he not be a good economic minister? I'm sure he'd be 100 times... he would have 100 times the chance from his experience and from his education to implement that smart industrialisation, which I understood is so important to you that you announced it - that it is your government's top priority... than John Wittenberg, who... If I'm not mistaken, John Wittenberg's experience... or education... before the Saeima is connected with... or tourist guide, or something like that... Why, Prime Minister, are you not creating a professional government, a professional team? Why is it that the Saeima Member, who has experience and knowledge in education, does not become a minister for education and science, and that who has experience in economists, does not work in the field of prosperity, but in the field of the economy? Your choice, Mr Prime Minister, leads us to think that it is not about work, it is not about a country, it is not about development. That what's happening is about the division of posts. I very much hope that I am wrong, Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U59	Mrs Stepanenko, would you have had a debate with eight minutes?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U60	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U61	So the name to Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U62	Dear colleagues, I would like to turn to Mr Možville again, he really... his speech was very resonating today. I would like to remind you once again of the vote on my conscience. So Mr Možville probably also saw in this vote on the Minister for Economic Affairs that his former colleagues... colleagues from the political group are obviously voting against their conscience. And why are they doing this? Now we'll see that... Mrs Golubeva, as we can see, is a member of the Bureau until the vote. Whatever your former colleagues, Mr Možvillo (I am talking about my group colleagues), could be a little bit so to calm him down and motivate him to support all these further directions, the votes, he must certainly offer him a post in the Bureau. This also explains why the ministerial replacement is taking place at the moment, why Mr Girgen had to leave. Not because he has problems with ministering, but precisely because we have a simple... Now there's one bleak sitting at the chess table and bee figure. But you couldn't expect a fair game, sitting at one table with such people. It really was a great naivety. If we're talking about what we're... Well, let us say about the coverage that Mr Kariņš, Mrs Čakša and Mrs Golubevas are trying to provide at the moment for this strange decision, then it is a little bit like an exam where the student has learned only one thing - he has learned about the flea, the whole structure of the flea and its features - but he pulls out the ticket for the elephant. And then he says... Well, Mrs Golubeva says that she will now be a minister, now in his ministers, now she will lead the home sector, but she knows only one small sphere, she knows only about fleas, that is, about violence. And then we will have a lot of fleas, because Mrs Golubeva knows only about fleas. She doesn't know anything about the elephant. And that's clear. But, speaking of the violence itself, I think that Mrs Golubeva should be able to deal with her own party and group members at first, if she was a group leader. Because Mr Douris can tell you very well about both emotional violence against women and sexual hatred. He can advise you very well and tell you how you should really fight it. At first, probably by... Well, in my own, let's say, in that big family called a fraction. Similarly, Mrs Čakša, who spoke about the guilt of the victim, did not respond in any way to the call made by non-governmental organisations to respond to hate speech from Members. So I think that all of this, of course, is the theatre of hypocrisy that we are forced to listen to today. If we talk about the fact that man is not there, there will be no place - that is unfortunately. And this man is simply not in place simply because this mathematics must be guaranteed, as we see, by the majority, so that the relevant group, called the Zakatistov Group, can support this terrible Frankenstein further. We see changes on the Saeima's agenda and on the Request Commission. So... I thought... just know, colleagues from the ruling coalition - maybe you will end up pretending and telling us and reading those texts from the page. I don't know if Mrs Golubeva himself wrote that text or someone wrote it to her overnight. But you don't have to pretend, just say what it is, we need to mix mathematics, not that, right now, this is going to be a superspecialist in one particular area. That will not be the case, and Mrs Golubeva will never deal with the problems that have existed for many years in terms of both security and the home system. And I also agree with my colleagues that Mrs Golubeva will now, of course, be tempted to hang out both for increasing funding and for building the deposit and so on. We will see how all this will be done. But I very much hope... and we will follow very closely with Mrs Golubeva's leadership this investigation into the purchase of vaccines, which could have a conflict of interest... because we already see that the political forces are the same political forces in substance... so that this purchase of vaccines is investigated with the best conscience - very, very careful - so that no one will be tempted at any time to bring this purchase of vaccines to someone... deadlock. We'll follow. And we will vote 'no' because this is not the candidate who can solve the problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U63	Colleagues, we will continue the debate after a break. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U64	Hello, honourable Members! Prime Minister Arthur Krišjāni Karin! And honourable fellow Members! We continue the first remote emergency sitting on 3 June. After a break, we shall continue the debate on the draft decision on the expression of trust to the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva. Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U65	Dear President, Mr. Prime Minister! Colleagues! If we are talking about Maria Golubeva as potential home affairs ministers - and, in part, colleagues in the previous debate... talked about how each colleague is suitable for a particular post - I would like to highlight this time and point out that history... Philologist Maria Golubeva as Minister for the Interior... I heard in her motivation speech three slogans, or pillars, that she mentioned: humanity, reforms, cooperation. I did not hear anything about police work, about these loud criminal cases, about the murders that take place during the day. How will we prevent them from happening again? What are we going to do to strengthen the police work as a whole; to repair the stations; to increase police salaries; to prevent a single police officer from having as many things as is currently the case, and to investigate them as quickly and operationally as possible, those responsible are brought to justice? I have not heard any argument or phrase about how the work of the internal security service will be disrupted in order to investigate and detect in good faith workers within the internal structure as soon as possible. I have not heard any phrase about how the shadow will be removed from the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs (PMLP), about these recently expressed negative facts in the public media about possible corruption. There, among other things, are names related to the party represented by Mary Golubeva. I will not even ask you to name the ranks of the State Police Service. I just didn't hear many of these things this time. My vote cannot be like a credit of trust, I don't feel trust... in this case - as a professional. This time, we see very clearly that we have found a position for a person rather than for a specific position for a professional who can deal with these issues. We have found a position - in the name of the coalition's stability - for a man to keep the government of Krišjānis Kariņš, so that everyone is satisfied, not that the internal structures and the home sector as a whole develop in order to reduce criminal offences. Colleagues! I certainly call on you not to support Mary Golubeva, no matter what the man she is, a history, a philology expert. This time we are talking about a very serious area - home affairs. And I... Really what I'd expect... Perhaps I will be able to change this decision in a few months' time if I see obvious improvements - that the police stations will be repaired and the police will be significantly increased; that this PMLP scandal, possible corruption will be clarified; that there will be no more hundreds of cases per police officer, or at least a substantial reduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U66	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I want to talk about two things. First. To the candidate. Knowing Mrs Golubeva long enough, I can say that she is really a good person, with good talents, with good education, a very disciplined person. I think that the feeling of discipline was the main encouragement to agree to the proposal to dive into a fast river, without knowing it, vanishing it or sinking it. But! It does honor the candidate, but does not honor the one who makes... which carries out experiments of this kind with people, with the Cabinet of Ministers, with the rest, namely the Prime Minister. Yes, indeed, we are living in an emergency, even though we are not declaring an emergency. We are living in a situation of constant reform, not stating that they are experiments, a series of experiments, and not knowing the outcome and results. It really does not honor those who initiate things of this kind, because experiments are good at the normal rhythm of life and at the normal sequence of events. In this case, experiments are not eligible. If Mrs Golubeva agrees to participate in such an experiment... I think the Saeima should not support this though. That's one thing. The other thing, in my view, is much more serious. It seems to me that this week will enter the history of Latvia as a week with two constitutional crises or the signs of crises. The first was the Varaklani crisis that we have just tried to tackle (success or failure - life will show up). The other one is this. I would like to remind you of the procedures relating to the establishment of the Cabinet of Ministers. Creation of the Cabinet of Ministers... According to the Cabinet of Ministers' Equipment Law, the main document, as you remember, was the government declaration - a declaration signed by the Prime Minister and all those represented at the time under the coalition agreement... Ministers representing all five political groups operating under the coalition treaty. What does that mean? This means that when one of the political groups leaves or throws out of this coalition, a declaration should be processed and, in substance, a new declaration should be submitted by throwing out those signatures that are not now desirable and unnecessary, as it is a new declaration, perhaps with the same text. It is linked to a coalition agreement, which is not a formal document, but which also ceases to exist, and should be a new coalition agreement as the basis for drawing up the declaration. That, to be honest, creates a semi-legal situation where the law is not grossly violated, but... it does not, in substance, correspond to what the legislators wanted when drawing up this type of action. I think that now, when speaking about replacing the Cabinet of Ministers at all, this should be taken into account, because this is not the first and last crisis in Latvia's parliamentary activity and I think we should draw the right conclusions from this crisis. We will not support any of the new ministers - as I understand it - for the following reasons too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U68	The name of Member Regina Lochmele. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U69	Hello, colleagues! It is possible that Sandis Ģirgens was the only Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of Mr Kariņš who was really in place. I could claim this because I spoke to Mr Ģirgens when he was still a minister, asking him to help certain police officers who have working conditions that would be ashamed of showing these jobs, for example, to our foreign guests. Mrs Golubeva, I sincerely recommend to you: when you start your work, because the ruling coalition will certainly confirm you today, regardless of anything... that your first step could be your personal excursion, for example, to the State Police Station in Riga, Alises Street, especially by visiting the basement floor, where several women investigators work. A second tour could be, for example, to Tukums, to the State Police building, especially the part where women who investigate road accidents also work. I think maybe you will have a surprise, and that will be some new reality for you, which is not visible in the beautiful building on Gaujas Street. I do not know who has told you and you have entered into the work of the Ministry of the Interior, but according to your speech, you have absolutely no idea of the specifics of this work and, above all, of the priorities of this ministry. If we are talking about priorities, I would call only a few, which were not mentioned at all in any of your yesterday's interviews, nor in today's speech. On the equipment I just... not about equipment, but... The fact that very many buildings and premises in the State Police Departments are still standing without repair since the Soviet era has not been mentioned. You did not mention any words at all about the State Fire and Rescue Service equipment, the status of the fleet, the status of the depot, the remuneration of the staff of the VUGD. Adult men with families who have to support their families are forced to work at least two jobs to support their families at all. And what a chaos it was with the work schedules of the staff of the VUGD! Mr. Girgens and I also talked about this, and he explained it. He's... I can now tell you openly what you said, Sandy. You said: “I know all these problems, I really want to help my subjects, but it’s not my strength because I don’t give money or finance. Don’t give, that’s it!” Next. Mrs Golubeva's specialisation without philosophy is an education policy. It is very strange that in your speech today, when you mention the quality of pre-trial investigations, you did not mention what it would need. In particular, it would require the renewal of the Police Academy, because the quality of pre-trial investigation is now dependent on two basic factors: the first - the education and professional training of investigators, the second - the number of criminals. And the number of criminals that reach today to 300 criminal cases per investigator cannot be reduced without an increase in the number of investigators. But the number of investigators cannot be increased because we simply do not have professionally, qualitatively trained investigators. It's a disaster. We also have a disaster with teacher training, which will also be faced by the new... the future Minister for Education and Science, who, of course, has some experience of working at school, but I think there is absolutely no experience of how to sort out this strategic direction in the field of education. More. As regards Mrs Golubeva as candidates for the post of Minister for the Interior, I can say the following. You had a chapter on cooperation today, but strangely there was no priority section on cooperation with municipalities. You cannot be unaware that currently there is a new norm in the Law “On Municipalities”, which provides that one of the autonomous functions of each municipality will be maintenance of municipal police. How do you plan to arrange for the police, the State Police, the entire State Police, specific... the chapter is arranged so that finally the whole territory of Latvia is truly “coated” with these people who can be called, who can be called at any time of the day? Then we shouldn't have to wait all the time in Kurzeme... For example, Vaiņodes the policeman from Liepaja, because today, it turns out, Saturday or Sunday and the only on-call policeman is located in Liepaja. Maybe you just don't know about it yet, but... you, I think, will have a lot new and amazing in this area. And the last thing I'd like to say. I will not support your candidacy today (as well as all the other ministers) for political reasons, but because the Ministry of the Interior is indeed a very specific ministry, where, unlike other areas, competence and professional training is a priority. You do not have that competence, and I could not vote for your presence in this item. Of course, Mr Ģirgen could also be criticised for something, but from all the ministers who were in Karini's government he was really the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U70	The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U71	Dear colleagues, There is a re-allocation of positions within the government. Despite the lack of knowledge and expertise in the field of home affairs, Ms Marija Golubeva, Member of the Saeima, is being directed to the office of Minister for the Interior. Mrs Golubeva has studied issues of education and gender equality; she is a specialist in philosophy, but not in the home system. That is why the first question arises. Where and what has Mrs Golubeva achieved in the area of home affairs, so that she can be considered today as a minister? I think with “Motions “On!” “ press releases - this is not enough. I think this is just another party association for Development/About! a desperate step, which shows a lack of experts in their ranks - thus also “Motions “On!” “ in the rows. I would like to hear exactly what Mrs Golubeva is thinking of the most important work to be done by the Ministry of the Interior - for example, about staff policy and the problems of training specialists, about the pay and working conditions of police officers and firemen. What does the candidate think about retirement pensions? How will professional support take place? What is the vision of the Internal Security Academy, about service infrastructure improvement issues? Dear colleagues, I do not want to support "Hameleon Games" in Parliament. I think it would be right to support a professional, competent person who has a sense of what the Ministry of the Interior is and how to manage this sector. I am not sure that Maria Golubeva will be the authority of the staff of the home system, so I am calling for a vote against. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U72	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U73	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, I would first like to reflect on the previous comment made by the Prime Minister on the previous minister that everything in the country is very beautiful and fine. I could not agree with that. And this is your criticism of colleagues who have pointed out that at the moment we have quite a lot of problems... It is a criticism, and I would call... You also need to put your work in a more critical way than to live up to the idea that everything is beautiful. Maybe there's everything beautiful on Brīvības Street... around your workplace... and human movements... but it is certainly not regional, and it is certainly not very much the case in many areas of business. And the criticism you mentioned... why we go worse in Latvia than in our neighbouring countries, does not pass the criticism, because quite simply - if our neighbouring countries continue to work much more successfully in the areas you call for than we are currently doing, then there is a great responsibility... It is precisely about the public comments made by you and your government ministers on healthy areas of the economy, which have now lost any political relevance. And so... we see results. But our neighbours are making good use of it! I think it would only be right if our neighbouring countries were to give you some praises, some medals for your contribution to the economic development of Lithuania and Estonia. However, at the moment, as far as Mrs Golubeva is concerned, I am very pleased that this format has emerged, that these people who start up in office are elected Members of the Saeima and are taking part in this debate. Unfortunately, what we see from this debate - we see that... Indeed, this was another proof that this government has been created very quickly and that it has been created in such a way: not those people who may perhaps have been in this position have been chosen. If we look at Mr Ģirgens, the former Minister of the Interior, objectively - citizens' surveys also judged him as one of the best working ministers in the previous government of Kariņa. And that in a way raises questions about this change. But politics and politics. What to do is to do. If that is the case, then we need to look for the best of the candidates. Now... After what Mrs Golubeva mentioned in her speech... This is a clear indication that, unfortunately, the candidate lacks an understanding of the challenges... The main challenges for the State Police, but I assume that the candidate will be very careful and, both of course, will be aware of these challenges and will understand that it is not only this education system... At the moment, I think it is quite insulting to every member of the internal body - to hear that he is told: you see, you are not too wise to be able to carry out your tasks quickly, we will now start to educate you, and then everything will be much better, all the problems will come. Is that the problem going on? I'm told in the region... When they go to really larger regions, people have these problems - that the only feeling of security created by the country... When a policeman arrives, it's a road policeman, but as we all understand, it's not a reason to make sure that there's a good order there, but a more thought to catch a drunkard or someone else. And people have to rely on their own efforts to protect their property, to protect themselves and to feel safe in an environment that may not be close to densely populated areas. And that is an issue that Mrs Ločmel has also touched on, with concrete examples. However, colleagues, as I said, I very much hope that Mrs Golubeva will be involved and that there will be some results in the future. At the moment, this speech was very weak. It only confirmed that this minister... The potential minister, unfortunately, is a very opaque choice and was filled in. See, party Development/About! I have to go, then someone needs to move. Well, let it be Mrs. Golubeva. No matter what her abilities... and other issues. Colleagues! That would, of course, be wrong to talk about the ministers and about the new government, let alone pre-election promises. This is the time when it would be appropriate to recall the pre-election promises. There were promises for us to reduce the number of ministries. There were two parties who were very active in that - it was KPV LV, and it was KVV. And that is why I now have a question for colleagues from the UKP. Where are you... If in the past, as we saw in the public space, the only reason why we couldn't agree on a merger between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice was that two ministers could not agree on what they added to (the Ministry of Justice - the Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry of Justice - the Ministry of Justice) and how such rude cocks stood and crossed each other... and we didn't get any results, and here we stayed. Now it is for us that the pre-election promise has not been honoured. At the moment, when one of those reasons is gone, I have a question for colleagues from the UKP: where are your pre-election promises? Where is your one of the main pre-election promises - a reduction in the number of ministries? Where's it left, colleagues? I would call on you, however, to honour the pre-election promises, because the argument that failed last time is no longer valid. So what is your priority in shaping the new government - to deliver the pre-election promises or to agree on the allocation of posts? Obviously, the distribution of positions is more important to you, and this power desire, which is now ruling in coalition politicians, is greater than the desire to honour pre-election promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U74	The name of the Member, John Adamson. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U75	Hello, colleagues! There was a lack of a candidate for the post of Minister in his address. The most fascinating thing for me is that there was no mention in the word of a state-run crime or maphysic structures that have overflowed all the power of our country. I would remind those colleagues who have forgotten that we can create a separate parliamentary group from those who are accused of serious crimes. We have a former minister here who, in my opinion, has obtained through the misuse of the position of service, was healthy with a light fear, only with administrative penalties, and that, in my opinion, is wrong. We can talk about perhaps the Minister of Justice... a meeting of his parliamentary secretary with a person accused of serious crimes already on the day after he was released from custody. Perhaps Mr. Karin will now dispel my doubts... And visiting the first match of the hockey championship by the Foreign Minister... It was a coincidence that he delegated these functions... after the protocol... in violation of both the law and all restrictions... with the Canadian Ambassador to visit the match... as well as a representative of a military contingent... and there, by chance, met two people who are accused of serious crimes. Maybe that was where the questions about the next... changes in government. There's a lot of questions, we're in a deep bog. I have the feeling that government representatives are not walking on the ground, don't talk to people. It would be interesting to listen to what people think about you. However, when I am told that there is no more where I am - I have always been an optimist - I always say: there is. Life shows that the pit in which we fall is deeper and deeper. The Foreign Minister did not think better about how to divert public attention from his not quite legitimate hockey championship, - demolishing the flag... By the way, the question is: what did the U.S. Embassy's representative do there?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U76	Mr. Adamson, I am so sorry. We are currently talking about expressing confidence to the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U77	You didn't understand, I am talking about organised crime - national organised crime. And that is precisely this fundamental issue, which is also a question of security and development in our country. Still, you should learn to listen. Colleagues, I don't think this candidate... to all other good properties... is the best candidate for the post of Minister for the Interior. There must be knowledge, experience and, most importantly, a desire to do something. Without the support of the Prime Minister, this is absolutely impossible, without finances, too. Without that, it is absolutely impossible. So I have a question for Mrs Golubeva: when did you agree to stand for this post, what demands did you make? What has been promised to you - to increase funding, material engineering base? What? Have you been promised your support? Are you the only ones who are involved in organised crime going into this post? And the government's representatives are like dolls rubbing behind the threads? In any case, I have the impression of what is happening in our country. Let us not talk about the slump and tumult that has taken place in our country as a whole. I'm not going to analyze what Mr. Girgen has done well or bad. In any case, that is what has been adopted (informally) between the Home Ministers - not to criticise existing and former ministers. There's only one case when... There was an attack on national security - the only training institution that prepared the police was abolished. Now the question is, what will now be eliminated? Mrs Chash mentioned in her speech... I concluded by saying that I wish Mrs Golubeva good luck in the unknown. It's very bad that we send someone to the unknown: go out there -- you don't know where, you do it -- you don't know anything. And what will the results be? As if there is a crisis, it seems necessary to make political decisions, but how can these works be organised by someone who has no understanding of what is going on? Or I'm really right that the representatives of organized crime are running these figures on the table and you're happy with them... to execute? I cannot support it. I do not see its trend towards change. The Prime Minister declares that we do not need transit, we do not need banks, we will have new technologies. I doubt it will be because then another person will come and say: you know, we do not need new technologies, we will live from what our farmers are making. But they're already beginning to foam out. Colleagues, let us perhaps think about the development of our country, about the security of our country and where we are going, not always going to make soap in some container, and by teams we will go right, left, about our country, about our people, about our society, in which we live without thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U78	Name to Member Armand Kraus. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U79	Thank you, Madam President. I actually don't even... I don't even have anything to say to our colleague Maria Golubeva, because she really goes some kind of unknown... I understand that this is Karina's government tactic: to choose people who are not professionals in specific areas. But it's not just Karin's government... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We have had this experience a long time ago: people who have not been in the army, who do not understand anything from the army, are ministers of defence. And people who may not distinguish the form of the State Fire and Rescue Service from the form of a police officer or customs officer - yes, they must be candidates for the office of Minister for the Interior and later also ministers. Yes, unfortunately, it's the order that non-professionals... I understood from you, Mrs Golubeva, that, of course, you will fight for gender equality, for different minorities in the police so that they have the same rights, but I really did not hear that something will be what the police really need... and Latvian society, because the police serve Latvian society. I would say that, as a minister, you will also have to make decisions concerning the entire government. If you heard what Mr. Karin said... He talked about reindustrialisation, that transit was bad, that it was some money that wasn't good... One thing I would like to remind you, Mrs Golubeva, is that you are going to government headed by the Prime Minister of Unity, and the Unity has led the government since 2009, for about ten years; there have, by the way, been ministers of the Interior. I can remind you that Unity is the one responsible for the current situation in the country. If since 2009, about ten years, a party has led the government... You calculate the percentage of UNIFORM liability. Here I can say yes, Unity... At that time there was still “New Time”... Dombrovskis, now in Brussels, started managing the government on 12 March 2009 and was running until 22 January 2014. And then from January 22 until February 11, 2016, the Prime Minister was Laimdota Straujuma of Unity. And since 23 January 2019 until now, the Prime Minister is Kariņš. He too comes from a Unity. How do you think it's all... By the way, it concerns internal affairs and you, because you also need to control organised crime, combat it. At the same time, it also involves various financial crimes - in the most direct way. And all of this has been the responsibility of the Unity. CONSUMERITY has built this banking system, which is currently criticised by itself. Our partners from other countries say: yes, we will introduce sanctions... it and it. It is the responsibility of the Unity. And you are now in government, Mrs. Golubeva? Take all these responsibilities with your Unity, which has been in place since 2009? Yeah, that's right. And I think it won't end well. Because if you listen to the Prime Minister who tells you how much wrong in the country... However, the Prime Minister does not think that this is a Unity, his own party, which has made all these soaps rude. So what will this government do? The government actually criticises all of its... previous Prime Ministers. Karin actually said today - and you are going to Karin's government! - that Dombrovskis has put everything on the board; that Laimdota Straujujuma has done nothing. Yeah, that's what Karin said. Because everything needs to be rebuilt. That's the community - it's just the little thing that's come out now, and that's why this government is not able to deal with. Here I will remind you that it is not the government's merit that the community's prevalence is now decreasing, but the spring's advantage. Latvia has arrived... spring, there's going to be summer. This is just as it was last year, and the government's merit is nothing. Mrs. Golubev! I call on you, of course, to learn to distinguish between police. It will be such a good job - to distinguish the police from the staff of the State Fire and Rescue Service. And you can really help. And for these women, who have been mentioned by our colleagues in the police camps, in the cellars, help us, however, to ensure normal working conditions so that they work in the offices, where the sun also once blows. Because I know that there are really terrible working conditions in the police. And that's the responsibility of the Unity, the government in which you're going in now. With all this in mind, we cannot, of course, vote in favour of such a government and in favour of such ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U80	The name of Member Eric Pucen. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U81	Hello, fellow Members, again! Today we are talking about expressing confidence to the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva. She talked about things... So what will be the reforms she is going to start with? She's going to start from scratch. However, I would like to recall what the former Minister for the Interior has done and what work should be continued. The former Minister, Sandis, has been working very actively to arrange for the state fire station in the country - they are being restored to the regions - as well as police stations. And this is going on in the long term, and the work is big enough, because everything has to be reconciled with the Ministry of Finance. However, I did not hear that it would be a priority for the Minister of the Interior. Well, then... we understand that, however, these workers will remain in old jobs and will work under inhumane conditions. The second question is the renewal of the Police Academy after two years of such an active work by Sanda Girgen. This is likely to be confirmed by the crime prevention board, and I hope that this progress will continue; that it will not be that we reject this case again and that we will not allow our policemen, our investigators, to obtain a higher qualification. Then too much work has to be done. And a member of Marija Golubeva's party may be able to tell us what remuneration system is in the Ministry of Defence, because, as we know, our firefighters work every day in battle conditions. And the remuneration system is unfair also for policemen, investigators. A very great will will be needed to achieve this. These would be three main points. It is very pleasant to hear that our Minister has worked a lot and a long time to find in the country that our internal security is also security. It is a pleasure that the Prime Minister has heard it, that it has been heard by the President, but let us see how it will be in the future and whether these priorities will also be government priorities. That's all that -- it's like a lifting bag. Of course, I do not have the hope that much will be done. Sandy has started a lot of work. I would say to the Minister, who will be confirmed: he will be able to go and cut strips, but nothing, we will remind the voters of what they have achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U82	The name of the Member, Lubova Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U83	Thank you. Hello, colleagues! I would like to say good words to the existing Minister for the Interior, Mr Ģirgens, about the work that has been undertaken and about serious reforms in the Ministry of the Interior. This ministry and the institutions under this restaurant demand and demand a lot of attention and effort and also a lot of time. Indeed, Mr. Girgen was one of all... Let's say that, recognised by the people, positively appreciated ministers in the Cabinet of Ministers, because he, despite the difficult epidemiological situation, taught to balance different human views, positions and positions against restrictions, as well as the duty of law enforcement authorities to control and respect... ensure control and compliance with legal norms. I believe that we should thank him for that. It is very difficult to find a compromise and balance between the obligation to punish and explain work, educational work, and proactive action. All this was started under the leadership of Mr Ģirgens and is currently happening. Speaking of Mrs Golubeva, well, really... Here I will share the views expressed by my colleagues on flea catching. If really the problem in our country is not organised crime, order murders and if there is no debate anymore on combating money laundering... What is this important about now? Somewhere the 1,000 criminals and materials that stuck in... from the Financial Intelligence Investigation Unit at the Ministry of the Interior. And it's no longer a priority, at least... as can be seen from both the Prime Minister and the candidate for the Minister for the Interior. These things are no longer a priority. These cases are not defined as prioritised, topical and important for both society and in the international environment for Latvia as a country. What does this indicate? In my opinion, this shows a lack of consistency and the absence of a systemic approach, both from the ministers selected in this way and from the priorities that these ministers fulfil in their work. I am very sorry that the most important issue is, indeed, domestic violence, not the life of people and the investigation of murder orders. And I'm really sorry that the priority is no more... whether it has been deliberately committed and deliberately chosen precisely a candidate for ministers who do not understand anything about financial flows, organised crime and money laundering. This is perhaps the real goal, and in fact it is not a step of despair: Mary Golubeva's choice for the office of Minister for the Interior, but it is a deliberate action by the government, the Prime Minister, which is precisely such priorities for this ministry. I am truly sorry, and I will vote against the promotion of Mrs Golubeva as Minister for the Interior. For my part, I thank Mr Ģirgens, as Minister, for his professional, competent and systematic approach to combating crime, and also to clean and create a fair and more transparent system within the institutions under the authority of the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U84	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U85	Colleagues! I had intended to speak once, but this speech will not be a criticism of Maria Golubeva. I have already said everything about government building. I want to address a slightly broader question of how governments are approved in Latvia and come back in January 2019. You can look for my speech when Karina's first government was actually approved. At that time, I had my former partymates from the party from which I was thrown out with an estimate that I had, as they say, a smaller... I am with a smaller percentage point and less popular than the Kaimiņš, from the party “KPV LV”... In fact, I was put on by the people of KPV LV who I drew into Parliament. I must admit that I didn't know them before, and they wasn't, as they say, my team. Now I have a chance to build my team. That time... At the Saeima Tribute... By approving Karini's government, I said that KPV LV would lose at this point in time when I was going to Karini's government, I was talking about losing government. And I was right: the Karini government is losing in all possible areas. Latvia is falling behind Lithuania and Estonia more and more – more and more by all indicators economically and differently. The beneficiaries are, of course, KPV LV. If KPV LV had listened to me at that time, rather than counting who is more popular - Neighbours or Gobzem for that moment - then today KPV LV would have been the largest and most influential parliamentary group and probably not 16 but 26 Members in this group.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U86	Mr. Gobzem, let me still... I will remind you that we are currently discussing a draft decision on the expression of trust to the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U87	Yeah, yeah, yeah. But I'm already talking about it... You listen to everything, it's such an introduction.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U88	No indication shall be given to the Head of the sitting. I can also prevent you from speaking in the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U89	But I'm talking... I'm talking...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U90	Please respect.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U91	I have to come to this final conclusion with introduction. I cannot reach the final conclusion without introduction. I am referring to the formation of a government. And, in fact, today we see that, despite my current prophecy and my recommendation, today the CPV LV has failed and has been approved and will be approved by Kariņa's second government. And that is why I want to give the lifting bag now not to the confused CPV LV, but to those Members who approve the existing government of Kariņš. It is clear that Marija Golubeva will also be approved today as Home Ministers. And it is clear that today the champagne will be unraveled and there will be such a feeling of such joy that: see how we have played them for the young and the inexperienced, but it will also be such a Pirr's victory. And it will be such a very short-term victory, because my intuition says that Karin's government, the second Karin's government, will hardly hold on to this whole event in this year's budget negotiations, and will also collapse. And it will collapse for a very logical reason - because this political cartel leads Latvia into poverty in all areas. We are going to the title of the poorest European country. And let's go to this title...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U92	Mr Gobzem, I remind you, again. We are talking about the draft decision on the expression of trust to the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva. Please talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U93	Head of the Saeima sitting! I am referring, in particular, to the fact that there is no need to place confidence in Maria Golubeva, as well as in the whole of this government, because it leads to the title of the poorest country in the European Union. That is exactly what I am talking about. Listen carefully. And so that we do not have the poorest country in the European Union, it is clear that it is simply absurd to approve as the Minister of the Interior who has the same connection with the structure of the home country as our Health Minister with the health system. Being an Minister of the Interior is actually a very difficult and difficult job. And hard work in the sense that this structure is (and I will not be afraid to say their word)... this structure is partially mafiose, because in Latvia, as we can see, the criminal world has actually grown up with the home system. It has grown up with the ministers for the home affairs system, which has long been led by these same governments, the major courts of the Unity Government. Why has it grown up? Because it has been launched, because there has been no authority, because ministers have always been those who, by their very nature, have been incompetent, and this practice continues. In our country, cars are stealing much more than in Estonia. Without the cover of the state apparatus, this is not possible. Our country regularly orders murders. This is not possible without competent investigators and in particular without incompetent management. In our country, unlike in Estonia itself, ordinary people are punished with 26 or how many thousands of protocols in the community. It is already difficult for people. In Estonia, how many were there? - 50 minutes, we're 26,000. It is a question of thinking. The home system should then be changed. In our country - which is absolutely clear - there is no smuggling without the cover of internal structures, namely, the high level of cover from the Ministry of the Interior is being smuggled. Without this cover, it is simply impossible. And a lot of things. Very, very many things. Unrefurbished police offices are just such a small detail on this whole issue. There is a need to look at this more widely. If we approve an absolutely inappropriate candidate at the post of Minister for the Interior, as in all other posts, one very logical and normal question should be asked, which I would ask every listening Latvian citizen to listen to, watching this remote speech of my Saeima. Name me the subject, name me the sector in Latvia, where it's enough, where it's all right. Is internal affairs enough and everything okay? No, no. Is healthcare enough and everything okay? No, no. Is education enough and everything okay? No, no. Is well - being enough and everything okay? No, no. Is the economy the same? Yeah. Here, I would like to draw attention to those who feed on the public media and believe in the public media. I sincerely ask you this question: why is it not enough in Latvia in any sector? Why are we becoming the poorest country in Europe? And does anything change if you hear the famous speeches of the government? Does something change if you hear the correct words that we will now have a superb Cabinet of Ministers? Do you feel an improvement in the quality of your life, your children and grandchildren, living here in Latvia? If this is not the case, then I think we should all be honest about saying that it is time for us, as a society, to reassess how long we will allow our country to become increasingly poor. Today, the opposition does not have enough votes to vote against the relevant minister in office. She'll be confirmed. And the harsh truth of life is that all governments usually fall down, not because the opposition votes against, but because the government itself has something to do. I hope that some of the new government of Karini will take place as soon as possible, with the objective reality, as I said, being the approval of the budget. In the context of today's speech, remember that the reason for the cat will be the BIP cat (at least public) with Unity and Development/About! How it will start, how it will end - we will see it. God gives this government to communicate with one another as soon as possible. Let us start a new process against the autumn. God gives that this autumn the President of Latvia Egil Levit, who did not give up the parliament after the vote on Varaklans, which is contrary to the judgment of the Constitutional Court, would receive this parliament... which has committed so many violations of the laws and decisions of the Saeima... I'd finally let go of it before the autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U94	The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U95	Good afternoon again, the honourable chair of the sitting! Dear colleagues, That might become a habit and a tradition in my speech, I would like to say thank you at the beginning. This time for three people. First and most sincere thanks to Sandis Girgens, our Minister for the Interior, whom I really admire for the strength and excellence he used to deal with the challenges of the home system. My second thanks go to Mrs Jūlija Stepanenko, who is trying to recommend to me the nearest way to get up the career ladder. I will be disappointed this time, thank you for the recommendation, but I have not come to post here. And the third thanks, as in the first speech, will be to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš for opening my eyes and enabling me to see the true and true face of Latvia's policy, especially what is trying to take this power and continue to rule in Latvia. Since I have been in the Saeima since last October, I had the opportunity to observe the development of this process, how Sanda's wish to sort out his service and attract funds has always been against various arguments why this cannot be done. By combining forces, organising a meeting with both the Prime Minister and the party represented by the Prime Minister, and the first meeting with the President, I tried to highlight the fact that it is not the personal desire of Sanda to arrange the structure of the interior, but the real necessity. As a municipal Member, I have had to face many times that firemen, including policemen, are very, very weak both with equipment, with pay and with the organisation of work, because this system was still largely based on some of the rest of the Soviet period. Not everything that was, of course, established in the Soviet system was bad, because in Soviet times, the fire service was, to some extent, a military service that established its own order. Sandis has now achieved more or less return to service - not in Soviet style anymore, but according to how this service should look, where the policeman is responsible for his decision, where the policeman's attitude towards the population is respectful and with mutual understanding. Yes, not everywhere, because, as I said, both the Soviet heritage and the former administration of the Ministry of Interior, which was also in the hands of the current ruling party and the Prime Minister for some time before we were entrusted with this administration. This means that, at this point, we have to make a decision to change the person who fought with heart and soul so that this service really became available to citizens so that citizens can feel safe in their homes while moving on the streets... and feel unharmed in your own country. I have nothing against Maria Golubeva's knowledge, education, but in this case I really think she is not suitable for this post. And I will also call on the rest of my fellow Members, however, to think strongly about their vote - not because Sandis is being taken away and we want to take revenge now, but just because, as Mrs Golubeva herself admitted, she... and, as her colleague, Mrs. Chaksha, said in her speech, if I am not mistaken... that I wish good luck in the unknown. This service is a very difficult service, but it requires some endurance, and I can also say a stronger word. It's not going to be enough here with the mayoes and the bur of the zap. Talking about what has been done. There has been a lot of progress and, following on from my discussions with Sandy and the negotiations with the President... I do not know what changed, but in these negotiations there has already appeared an understanding and a certain acceptance that the Ministry of the Interior needs to invest in funds, it is necessary to arrange the system, it is necessary to improve working conditions. Slowly managed to convince. I had information... While I was not a member of the Saeima... that Sandis had requested these funds from the first day, but even members of his party, who are no longer party members but support the government, were against the allocation of funds, even though he claimed to grant them and finally deceived them. Obviously, I can say that, I have continued, and I think it will continue. That is why I thank Sandym very much once again, and I call on my fellow Members to think very carefully as to whether Mrs Golubeva's candidacy for this post is the right one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U96	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U97	On this second point, I must say that I am listening today to Mr Možville, who has come out of the sauna and has understood that Mr Kariņš's government is now working as throwers. It could be assumed that this was not known in 2018 or 2019. Dear friends, stop crying! Those who've stayed there... These are some, one-handed fingers counted from the CPV LV... Stop crying! It's your conscious choice. You chose to go to government, although it was quite clear that you would be thrown down. For every logical person it was clear, it was just a matter of time that you were as little fools in a slow spirit, one by one... That's what it was. And now you're at a fucking crib, and you're never going to be in power any more in your life. That's it! Last year and a half! Enjoy the opposition with the Kaifa - as I have done since I was put on by KPV LV - and enjoy your last name. Just enjoy it! Let Mrs Golubeva, on whom I too will vote today with the 'no' vote, to spend the Ministry of the Interior, show that there will be no improvement in the Ministry of the Interior, just as there has not been during the entire period of Unity, and with pleasure approach to that situation. End there all the time to thank you for something. Thank you for what? For undetected order murders? What exactly do I thank you for? About car thefts? Compare how many cars are stolen in Estonia and how many cars in Latvia... Statistically. About crime as one that is relatively much higher in Latvia than in Estonia? Thank you for what? For the unrefurbished premises? Go to any police station, see how the queue cop lives. He doesn't know how it is - painted walls... for the last 27 years, half of which, if not more, has been the New Time and Unity in Power. And then you, Mr Mozhville, come out of your sauna and you understand - 3 June 2021 - that you have been joined by the Unity, but that is the style of the cartel - to drop everyone. It would have been the spine at the end of 2018, at the beginning of 2019, it would have been a little brain, today it would have been the largest fraction in the Saeima. No, it wasn't. Every lesson pays for something. It will cost you all a political career. Fair? I'm honest. Marija Golubeva's position as Minister for the Interior, given that she has agreed, will also pay for a political career... after some time. She doesn't understand it today. She'll understand it in time. And it's good, we need to look positively at these events. We need to see that this government, which is now declining compared to Kariņa's first government, is also the number of votes in Parliament - they are going to the end. We need to make certain regularities. The whole process is only good, and we will be able to draw the final conclusions a little later, because the chickens count in the autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U98	The name to the Member, Maris Mozhville, for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U99	Thank you, Head of the sitting, for the floor. I will reflect a little on what Mr Gobzem has just said. Mr. Gobzem, let's do some decency, however! I will not comment on your spirit, physical condition, or your thoughts or location of exterior or interior. I don't care like a bunny's getting a signal. I am talking about what we do and what we will do. And no personal harassment, at least in my speech. So I hope you understood that. If not... Thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U100	The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U101	Thank you, colleagues. To reflect on what Mr Možvillo said and on the debate, I just want to say that we also need to learn to lose. If you're like a man who represents KPV LV... you lost as a party, as a political power, it must also be accepted with respect. You do not need to reflect on the names or situations of others. And no career ladder, Mr. Možville, I fear that none of your party members, except five illegal groups... created... people who support this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U102	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U103	Dear colleagues, Thank you for Mr Možvillo, but I would like to comment on Mr Možvillo's thanks. I see that Mr Možvillo is very, very, very lost at the moment. And I don't think... Maybe... I understand, in such a apprehension, when you have to go video on breaks with the way he's doing a cooperation contract right here at the Saeima... Maybe there's something missing in the context, but I didn't advise you in any career progression, I just see that you probably claim an unofficial high position that is the greatest... Something... In the family. It might be that this could be your job, which could be useful for you. The biggest... What... further that is your determination. And this could be really an informal post, and I cannot help you to get that post in any way - that is what you are doing with your own hands right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U104	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U105	Returning to the debate on the substance, there are many strands that are broken and debated about what Karin had then thought in choosing himself such ministers as how he then came to such a choice. Now those who have not yet understood the obvious - Karin was not put in this position to think or to decide, he was put in this position as an empty jar, as a framework in which to fit into all the United Nations competitors, so that they would tear, eat, and thus the United Nations rating would grow, which is also being done successfully. And this is simply the next move - the next move, thinking about the political growth of Unity, because it is provided not by good, constructive works, but... it is like two ways to achieve your own superiority - either to become better by doing something yourself or to drop others down. And that is what is currently being done very successfully. This jar once again throws the necessary composition so that they can keep up there with each other. If we're talking, let's say... There is also a lot of debate about what qualities... on the competence of relevant ministers or ministers. We know for a long time that this government does not choose its own ministers as such. There is no point in competence here at all. Whether or not this minister is appropriate is irrelevant at all. The fact that the Minister, the Minister for the Interior, does not distinguish between forms or degrees of service... It is about the same as the Minister of Economics does not distinguish between volt and wool or load from consumption, without understanding the difference between this and all. It has no meaning in this government. And why it doesn't matter, I've already explained - because this government, in a situation of political monopoly, has been told by the dogma to the whole of Latvian society that the government cannot be changed, which means that it can go back to permissiveness. It is similar to the economy. If you're a monopoly, a service provider, then you can't care about the quality of your monopoly services, about the costs - anyway, everyone will be forced to buy this service from you. The same is true in politics. And this performance will just continue. If we are talking about this particular nomination, then, most likely, why the Development/About!... Here is a much more interesting story as to why this particular political power has proposed such a candidate, well aware that he is absolutely unsuitable for this post, there is nothing to do with this post at all. As we can see, it doesn't bother them to raise it and won't bother to confirm all the others, because everyone understands this game in a jar... spiders game in a jar and are interested in it to continue... like a casino - the summits are these chips, and then who will take the bank. Hope has all been lost. Even though it is very clear what the scenario will be... those who are able to assess it. Here we go! And in this case, it is not a question of who was thinking about bringing people with the right competences. No, man is on the move... I think that is the main reason why Mrs Golubeva is being directed, because she has several posts here and, moving this person away from the Saeima to the government, there are several posts that could not otherwise be present. Basically, people who drive this poor new... I really regret them, these new ministers. They're well aware of what they're doing, they just need... They are well aware that this person is not capable of serving as a minister, but it does not bother them. It is important for them that, at least for a moment, this person should be approved as a minister, as posts are being released for that moment. This will allow other needed people to be joined up in these positions. That is, in my opinion, the main reason why they have chosen such a nomination. We can be sure of that. In turn, I can give Mrs Golubeva shortcuts on how you can stay in office and prepare. When you try to stay out of office for your inconsistency, look at the time... I want you to ask me how it's... how the OIC in criminal matters is moving. For several years, the police have been investigating the components of the OIC afero, and there are many interesting episodes. One of these episodes is related to container schemes. Remember this story about how unexistent stations were operating in the meadows, but according to the documents of the Ministry of Economics, there were real stations with huge installed capacities. It's all right - handed over according to permission to keep them able to earn later. We were all trying to present it that he was guilty of it... is nature, but not the Ministry of Economics. Trying to blame the “Distribute Network” from the beginning, then – that they have just been fraudsters, and so on. In fact, an examination of this episode, which I have done in detail, revealed that the main reason why such schemes were possible was the Ministry of Economics. It was the Ministry of Economics that not only covered, but also directed the entire event. It was the Ministry of Economics who prepared the necessary answers, the necessary justification for all of this, even more so - there are documents that confirm that the Ministry of Economics has adopted these stations, that they have come to know the documents and that they have recognised that everything is right, and that these non-existent stations have extended their authorisation times so that they can continue to wait for this possibility - when they can earn. All these documents, all these facts are known to the State Police, but there has been no progress in this area. Maybe it's because at that time, the Ministry of Economics was supervised by the head of the office of the current Prime Minister Kariņš... so nothing happens. Mrs Golubeva, you will remember this, just this fact. In any case, you will have to be more interested in this. Who will follow us, we will take care of it, but you can benefit from it at the moment you try to tell us that you can't do anything. Then there will be one thing you can really do. Here we are talking about serious violations, we are talking about the system, about perhaps the greatest aphere of this century... Until now. Well, this government still has the chance to do something even more, but this is really an important phase, where very many facts are known, they have already been proven, collected, everything to do - the police have to do their job qualitatively, they don't even have to investigate anything, everything is, as they say, written, put in front. That is what I would call you not to forget and understand - with what aim you are going there, perhaps really at the moment you are there, try to do something too, because, as I understand, in the very near future, we will be here once again fellow Members, but you will no longer be at the Saeima Bureau and will not lead your group anymore. This will be the only change that this government will make, and that is why you are being directed to this minister's position, I believe, and not to take care of the country, not of the sector. It is unfortunately a reality that a competent and capable manager should really be there, but we will be able to make sure that I have been right once again. We remember this moment! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U106	I closed the debate. Name to Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U107	Thank you, Madam President of the Saeima sitting. I call, colleagues, on the ministers to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U108	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on "On the expression of trust to the Minister for the Interior Marija Golubeva"! Please, let's vote! For - 54, for - 35, for - 1. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On Expression of Trust to the Minister of Education and Science Anita Muižniece”. Name to Prime Minister Kariņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U109	Thank you, colleagues, for the vote. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Members, Honourable Members! The next candidate is the candidate for the Minister of Education. This is an area where we have been driving relatively far-reaching reforms over the last almost two and a half years, the biggest of which is the reform of the administration of higher education, which is already, as you know, prepared by the committee, and I think there will be a vote in the Saeima next week. We also have a reform of the school network and a reform of the content or quality of training. We are still in front of the introduction of all these reforms in nature. First of all, I would like to thank the former Minister for his work in this area. The road is not easy. Such far-reaching changes always lead to resistance, but dialogue is important, it is important to overcome opposition and yet to introduce these positive changes. The Minister, who we have Mrs Anita Muižniece, is, of course, all known to you as Member of the Saeima, but she has also been qualified in this area. She is both a master in education and has also worked as a teacher. She has practical experience in this field. I call on him to support the continuation of these reforms that have been launched and, of course, in relation to the community, we must work in such a way that schools can resume in September. And that basis for us to achieve this goal is to continue the successful vaccination process so far, which is not, of course, the Ministry of Education and Science... in the field, it is in fact a matter for all governments, for society as a whole, but it is very important, of course, to be involved. So, of course, the Ministry of Education and Science will have to work very closely, as has been the case so far, with the Minister of Health in the future. So, on the one hand, we have ambitious reforms to continue and implement, and on the other, we have a communion pandemic and the need to open schools in September. And, of course, by developing all safety measures to minimise the possibility of this pandemic in the autumn... A pandemic could... Well, as a result, be a new outbreak in our country again. That is what we have to work against. The candidate is known to you all, and I call on you to support the next minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U110	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name of Member Anita Muižniece. Mrs. Monsieur, would you have five minutes, please?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U111	No, I think it's gonna take more time, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U112	In that case, we have to take a short break until 3: 15 p.m. So it's a break until 3:15 p.m. Only registration of the presence of Members. This has happened. Interruption until 15.15 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U113	Dear colleagues, We keep sitting after the break. See the draft decision “On Expression of Trust to Anita Muižniece, Minister of Education and Science”. Let's start a debate. Name of Member Anita Muižniece. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U114	Hello, honorable (A sound break.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U115	Mrs. Monsieur, we can't hear you. Please, please, sound...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U116	How can I help you?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U117	Now we hear... Now we hear it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U118	Now we hear it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U119	Yeah. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U120	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Dear Members and honourable Members, In opening my speech, I would first of all like to express my thanks to the Prime Minister, the coalition partners and, of course, the new conservative party board and the colleagues of the political group for the nomination of my candidacy for the post of Minister for Education and Science, the faith and trust, and the support that has been received so far, I will say in the face of a responsible challenge. When we think of our country, without the red-white flag, the anthem and the coat of arms are almost the first idea of our people. Think about Latvia decades ago, today and in the future always first position person. Like every tree that begins with a seed, every society begins with a human child who needs to be taught life, often needs to get away and let everyone experience a miracle of growth and growth in order to build an ever stronger nation in the future. I really believe that every strong country starts with an educated, therefore a healthy and therefore prosperous society. Never, so never! - we must not stop repeating that education is the foundation of all of us, the future and the key to success in every area. This is the reason from which perspective I plan to look at further work in case the Saeima approves my candidacy for this post, with the greatest concern for the human child, which is the beginning, for growth and opportunities to realise ambitions and great dreams that are medium-term, and for orderability in all elements of the system, which is the key to the success of our society. Thinking about the regularity and the unified system's ability to work, it is important that the most important changes already underway in the education sector are continued as well as successfully brought to the end. It is planned to consider amendments to the University Law in the third, final, reading, which members of the Committee on Education, Culture and Science have been working on since last year in close cooperation with the Ministry, Parliament and the whole sector. It is these amendments, however often controversial, that will mark long-awaited and necessary changes in the field of higher education. At the same time, it is only the beginning of the reform of university governance and it is the taking of next steps that will be crucial in terms of both the development of a career and growth system, the revision of academic staff loads, and the development and implementation of an incentive and high-level model of higher education and science funding that is conducive to excellence. By implementing this package and doing it as quickly as possible, we will come to modern, competitive higher education, where both the opportunity to study and work in it will be ready to fight both local and foreign people. And precisely because of quality, not the study fee. A modern and high-quality higher education system will certainly be an opportunity to increase investment in higher education and science not only through the state budget but also through active involvement of the private sector. I have mentioned the cooperation that has been carried out so far between Parliament, the Ministry and the industry in the context of university governance reform. Cooperation is one of the keys to the success of the changes, but at the same time cooperation is not possible without the ability to listen, hear and look at different positions from the opposite point of view. I therefore definitely intend to strengthen the dialogue with the social partners, as I believe that it can bring about more rapid progress in change as well as the revitalisation of new ideas. Today the change in higher education means the motivation of today's students to become the best graduates, so that not often they go to study elsewhere, but with pride and confidence in the possibility to acquire modern and competitive education in Latvia. The successful continuation of the transition to new learning content in both this and next school year will therefore be crucial. Learning materials, support for educators and school directors are available in good time, and new, stronger and modern municipalities will be able to continue and will not be stopped by planning a network of educational institutions, and by modernising and adapting the educational environment in its broadest sense. However, without teachers, it will not be possible to do this work - the arson of our today's student education spark - so support for teachers not only for raising wages, but for restoring the prestige of all teachers and trust in the profession will be one of the guidelines of my work. I am proud and grateful to each teacher for the progress made, especially in the last year of the pandemic, which coincided with the transition to the new content of school education. I believe that there was no one easily, but it can already be said today that you did it, despite everything. And you did all the best that could have been done. We will therefore work in such a way that the teacher is once again a profession where only the best and most motivated are employed, with confidence and a sense that every work and investment that has been done will be properly appreciated and respected in society. And here we come to the human child as a starting point for an educated, thus a healthy and therefore well-being society. If we are thinking of short-term priorities, I hope that our goal is one for all: on 1 September this year, all students must return to a high-quality learning process, where distance learning will be an integral element of education, not a permanent state. The time of the Covid pandemic in education has left behind both the difficulties and challenges and the changes in the long-awaited stress required by the age of the digital environment that is overriching technology. However, no device or smart technology option in education will be able to replace the on-the-spot learning process. They may be complementary and complementary, but contact, direct communication and the presence of peers and teachers for the development of a healthy personality and the acquisition of quality education is an integral part of this. If the first step to get back to school was the principle of safe regions, then the next level is the development of safe schools and clear algorithms, as well as consistent adherence to them at times of possible exacerbations of the pandemic. The aim is clear: 1 September and the following year, when classes meet again in such a way that it is safe for students, teachers, pupils' parents and their grandparents. It is important to point out here that, in order to succeed, I see not only the role and responsibility of ministries and politicians for the development of all possible scenarios, algorithms and guidelines for regulations, but the most successful thing is that schools will become safe for everyone in the next school year, but we will only be able to do so together. I think we all know what its only cure is for any pandemic. Therefore, I hope that we will all use this summer to rest after a difficult year, to restore forces, and to take active action to bring the community back to rest. If, however, a further view - then in future work every decision in education, whether it will be negotiations about content inclusive environment, schools, teachers, cooperation with parents in the education process or future opportunities in universities, it will be evaluated primarily through the human needs of the child, because every child who has grown up in a favourable educational environment will be our talent, future doctor, scientist, writer or politician. And in a unified, organized system, where all its elements work together in the name of one destination, such and many unimaginable talents will flourish in Latgale, Zemgale, Vidzeme, Kurzeme and Riga today. I sincerely believe that an adult who has grown up in a child-friendly education environment becomes a firm foundation for a wise, healthy and prosperous society, so in the case of trust, I undertake to work with zeal, perseverance and hard work, because this is the only way to achieve results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U121	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U122	Good afternoon, all those who follow the Saeima debate, what is going on! I think it was not possible to notice such an interesting thing that the JCPOA ministers were approved by the latter. So, the UKP, which is the rebel of this coalition... their ministers are the last to vote on. It is hardly a coincidence that it is two ministers - the last ones to be voted on - that will be UK Ministers. This is most likely to be the reason to make sure that the representatives of this political force do not make any sort of move for themselves again and do not vote in a way that the coalition has agreed not to bring about another 'Parliamentary accident'. Therefore, from the beginning there were the other ministers who then voted on, if any, how... then, as appropriate, the UK Ministers will also get their vote. Consequently, there is no doubt that the JCPOA ministers will be approved today. However, one can understand this confusion and anxiety of the JPN because they are the next new antilope, which is prepared to digest the old political crocodiles on their menu. This is already, in principle, being implemented skillfully. These new antelopes may not be aware of it, but they are already successfully digested, that is to say, from the moment they announced that they would come, they would carry this new political agenda, the new political culture, the new political principles, but they were immediately caught under those they promised to fight and began to implement the same principles they had promised to fight against, forgetting their promises. Their support in society began to shrink rapidly, and now it is already critically low and will also continue to shrink as long as this party is in coalition, because that paradox is that this party... To be in power, it needs to be in a coalition, but to be able to fulfil its promises, it needs opposition. All that you boast, which you present as your success, has actually been done with the strong support of the opposition, and you can do nothing without the opposition. Now we are hearing current promises again, we have heard a speech from the next minister of education, the future minister of education, very smooth, beautiful, but if someone was listening to it, we could see a number of contradictions in it. But what I'm more interested in is how these new promises, which are promised, will actually be fulfilled, we didn't hear at all about them. We have just heard the current 3 × 500-style promises, one of which is that the autumn training should be present. Well, it is very good that you have such a commitment, but how do you intend to implement it? You have announced this, already today morning to the whole Latvian society Latvian Radio told about the opportunity to implement the training in the field, but what has been done because of it is all possible if you haven't even done what was obviously necessary so far. Here I would like to come back... children, learn physics! It is the same principle that can be applied to the government of Krišjānis Kariņš. I don't know if anyone's capable of realizing this slogan if it hasn't been done so far, but the key to children's learning here lies exactly in this... That is, if we know that the infection is spreading by air in the form of an aerosol, then we can control the spread of that infection by controlling the quality of the air. As we do, it has long known, there are technical possibilities, as we can, and that is quite simple. The question is, why all this time it... For more than a year already, this government has not begun to do so, on the contrary: this government has desperately avoided, either by pretending that they do not understand it, or by knowing that it is unable to prepare such a regulation, such an instrument by which we have been able to go a long time ago out of the consequences of this communion crisis, to allow a large part of the economy to work in real terms, not to be left behind and to pay the millions that will then have to be returned. And that will not be the case, and they will not, of course, be the politicians who have taken these decisions. As a result, as a result of this government's actions, we are causing losses: both direct, indirect and wasted state aid - a pointless waste that could not be wasted - and a brake on the economy. What's the problem with me? I am really very concerned about how we will ensure a high-quality education process, because it is at the heart of everything. Here, if we are talking about face-to-face training, which is particularly important for schools, for children, for whom real contact is absolutely necessary, so that they can learn quality so that they can keep their attention in order to make sure that this knowledge is really perceived, then what they have to do is air quality. Specifically. How will you do that? Have you thought how, in the autumn, when the training begins, these rooms will be able to provide adequate air quality, because it is absolutely pointless to put some safety measures, say, to sit on the premises with masks, if these rooms are not properly ventilated. There is no difference in whether you have that mask or not, you still breathe infected air if it is not adequately ventilated. These are the things that we have already prepared today in particular... questions for the new Minister for Education, knowing that the New Conservative Party can do nothing of its own, it must help prepare everything with the right ideas. And then, with our support, there is hope that they will be implemented. We have already prepared these issues forward... where the New Conservative Party, its minister, should be heading if they really want to do something in real terms, not just to promise the next 3 × 500, but also to do something. Why is the education process so important? If we look... So not only children, but also a qualitative process of higher education, because today we heard here another beautiful, empty slogan about smart reindustrialisation. Tell (and I would very much like to hear) those who are now at the end of 10 years... When, 10 years ago, I tried to tell Latvia the way it should be, and it was like a caller in the desert, then the Unity simply said to us, "No, no, no, we don't need anything like that. All we have to do is simply look fiscally beautiful. If we are fiscally beautiful, foreign investors will love us, customers will come, get married with a rich crowd, and we will have everything here.” Now, 10 years later, suddenly, you've realized that, no, this story won't work that value... If there is no way to add value here, no one will invest money here, no matter how beautiful you look, no matter how beautiful it looks, no one will invest money if you can't earn. On the other hand, added value creates - what? They created people. In this new age of technology, in the age of new economic formation, when we talk about the economy of knowledge, the most important creator of added value will be man - a creative, knowledgeable man. And then I would like to ask you, and that is also a question for the Minister of Education. Do you know how many children are going to take the physics exam this year, and how many children are going to take the chemistry exam? Why did I ask? Because only those who have passed these exams will actually be able to get further education in some field, become engineers and become specialists in the relevant fields. If you count it, you'll see that what you're talking about smart reindustrialisation is total stupidity, totally out of reality, specks that... You're once again simply a nation to think again. Tell yourself a story so that you can look beautiful in some way. What should really begin to think about is how we will then attract the qualified workforce. And, of course, one of the... and, in principle, those solutions to you, as I understand, the most realistic solutions are: either we will be robotized here or we will be... aliens will arrive. About these are the most real results... the most realistic solutions for you. Or suddenly, just demographics will change, even though it can't change, we know what it is, even if it changes, suddenly there would be at least three children in every family, but that would give us some kind of return only after years 20. Then there is the question: how do you intend to fill this hole? Why I say that the most realistic solutions for you are aliens or robotisation, that we are becoming a super-modern country that comes with innovative solutions that do not exist anywhere in the world, because you have simply denied other opportunities. In the composition of this coalition, nothing else is possible for you. And then the question is: how do you intend to deal with all this? I therefore see that, in fact, the Ministry of Education and Science is a very important ministry, a very important factor for us to be able to build this sustainable, successful economic development. Here... Cooperation should be between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Science, especially if we are talking about how to make our economies more innovative, that is to say, an economy that can create products with higher added value. And here again there is a huge hole and a huge failure of the Ministry of Education and Science. So we need to create a bridge between science and business. One is to build this bridge, the other is to look at what is happening to our science. Well, it's just terrible things! And if it really matter to you what you're talking about, then these questions about the financing of science... just as we spoke about healthcare at the time - they have long had to be dealt with. Similarly, questions about higher education so that we can build a competitive higher education, an education with which we can link, which we can turn into an export product, because this is the only way we can achieve a certain level of prosperity here in Latvia, because smart industrialisation... It just won't happen in itself. The kitten will not come here. So we have to figure out how we will get this workforce here, which will help us to do all this, at whose expense we will be able to do it. And the most successful way is through the export of higher education here to get people who would be necessary for our economy, who could already be integrated into the environment, learn language, customs and become full members of this society. But I was confused by the fact that you talked about many things going to be done in the autumn, at the same time you are hoping to rest in the summer. So what are you... I would like to understand from the future Minister of Education... to make an application and tell her what she thinks to do in the summer – to relax or work and fulfill her promises. And how do you intend to make the autumn teachings happen in person? As you can do, I will tell you this formula is feasible. If there are people in power who understand something, have studied physics, are able to answer for their own decisions, are able to make decisions at all, then it is work to be done... and you now... You start doing this right away - even if you haven't done anything, even if you haven't made any sense, not even any commitment to doing it. Now you can get it and do it. Or it will be your next “3 × 500” promise. The autumn will show you everything. I would very much like to hope that at least some real promise, which really would be important for Latvian society, will fulfil you. In any case, we, the opposition, will support you in these efforts, but today, of course, you must, with your own power, be clear about what, how you will support it and how you will collect your voices there. There, you do not need our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U123	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U124	High Prime Minister! Dear colleagues, I have no question for the Prime Minister about this particular candidate. At least Anita Muižniece has experience in education, as I understood, Mrs. Muižniece has previously worked as a primary school teacher. Here, I think colleagues, the main issue is the previous ministers, Long Schuplinsk. I think every politician who has at least some considerable time in politics has experience with each other in his back, so to speak, but that's what colleagues have done with Long Shuplinsk, what she has in her back looks like an axe, sword. This action with your minister, with your colleague, with your party member, is, of course, a lot to say about the New Conservative Party. I, my colleagues, understand correctly, am not a fan or a supporter of Long Shuplinsk, I myself wrote, even a number of requests for deployment seem to me to be, but if something like this is being done in public by your party colleagues, I do... I would like to say that I am very sorry humanly about what was done with Long Suplinsk. Get closer to the thing. Colleagues, such unprecedented action with its minister clearly shows that this coalition recognises huge errors in its educational activities. So, for example, what we will have to do already, probably in the very short term, the so-called reform of higher education, which we will soon see at third reading, is certainly one of them... of these areas, where this issue of university advice is the main issue, as we know. I will ask at least today a rhetorical question, whether such an assessment of the coalition itself, and of its party, for the work of Minister Šuplinska, means that the so-called university reform will also be re-evaluated and we will see a rather different attitude here also in the votes. Let's wait... I look forward to the debate in the Saeima. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U125	The name to Member Ralph Nemir. Please! ( Pause) We can't hear you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U126	I'm sorry. Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Sir, Well, I have to say, with Ilga Šuplinska, the current education ministers, I have managed to work together in the Cabinet of Ministers and the Employment Council. I have to say, we don't always have the same views in many... on various issues, but this is absolutely normal in politics. In particular, let us say that only three ministers at that time expressed the opposite opinion in the Cabinet of Ministers on the issue led by Mrs Šuplinska regarding the removal of the rector of the University of Latvia from office, which, it turns out, was indeed illegal, because the judgment of the first instance court showed this. At that time, only the Minister for Economic Affairs, the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Welfare voted 'no'. But these are political situations in which there can really be different views, one or the other decision is made in its own right, and there are, of course, also the resulting consequences. However, I must say, Ilga Šuplinska has been very active in his position and has tried to make changes, either, such a big change in university management, in many other issues. I have to say, the Prime Minister has always praised this reform, which is one of the... the work done by the government at the top of the list. This work has, of course, not yet been completed, because the reform of universities and the draft law on amendments to the Law on Higher Education are still in Saeima's corridors. We will decide on this in the near future, colleagues! But obviously the internal issues have not been so clear, because let us remember that the candidate for the post of Minister of Education and Science Anita Muižniece has also been working as Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science for some time in his position as Minister Ilga Šuplinska. However, I would like to commend Mr Šuplinskis in the context of the fact that, at a time when we should have joined the CERN and the European Space Agency, our views were in agreement, because at that time the Minister of Education and Science looked more at such an issue of education and research. I have looked at this opportunity in a more context with the opportunities for our entrepreneurs to commercialise their research and give such value-added material, the expression of added value to science. I also welcome Mrs Šuplinska's efforts to think about national sport. I am also a member of the Sports Sub-Commission. Indeed, officials in the Ministry of Education and Science have tried to find these rational grains. But, I must say, this question of change of ministers in the context of the political situation that has taken place with the participation of the JPV LV in the government is logical. Such changes have been agreed by four parties, forming a new composition of the Cabinet of Ministers, practically new, but leaving some ministers in office. This is very... an individual, specific, specific case. What have been the motives is difficult to say. Mrs Šuplinska has been accused of not being able to talk to the industry. Well, I must say that the sector has really had different views on the changes to be made to university governance, but Mrs Muižniece is also a sufficiently emotional lady, I think I stress - because in a number of debates, I think it is precisely more that I have heard her opinion, reflecting the statements of someone, such as the opposition Member or even the coalition, in the debate, but not so much about the content of the proposal. This is my observation, perhaps it is subjective, perhaps it is accurate, but in any case it is a matter of fact, which is much more expressive of the context of cooperation with industry. I have to say, history also goes spiral, and changing the context itself... In another political context, perhaps, when measuring ratings, ministers may have the view that they should save themselves in some way, and this is also not ashamed to be expressed publicly by the representatives of this political power, which is why I can refer to it. It is understandable, then, that at the same time, let us also make changes in other positions. If we think in such categories, then I allow the idea that fundamental reforms at all will be quite difficult, because making reforms always means a great deal of frustration for operators in a particular sector. If we measured in such a way - which is louder and therefore better - then, of course, we would end up in a very controversial situation to me. On walking spirals, it also reminds us of the exclusion of this leader of political power, Mr Bordan, from the lines of the National Alliance and, consequently, the next steps, which are precisely linked to the changes in the position of the Minister of Justice at that time. So in this case, I see the following parallels. If we are talking specifically about the personality and suitability of Mrs Muižniece's post (and today I am trying to be objective, not so much looking at political affiliation), then I must be honest that I have succeeded in working with Mrs Muižniece in my previous post, and I want to mark and value him as a professional. She is really with the experience, directly with the practical work experience, the child question is also not foreign, she is proud of her family. And who the parent isn't proud of his children! Therefore, he is also familiar with the problem of young people in the context of the education process, which is currently taking place at a distance. Knowing also from practical experience - this year has been a very, very large one, I allow the thought, the rum... It is the knowledge of children that will remain a major hub, and this situation should certainly be considered and dealt with. Actually, it's... This year has been another holiday for children. Children, in principle, take part in hours without turning on... never cameras, and so they may be located near the refrigerator or watching Youtube and other binding... social networks. That is the reality. But, of course, the task of returning to on-the-spot training will be very topical and it will be difficult to find solutions for this, and I allow the thought, because the Ministry of Health will certainly think differently than the Ministry of Education and Science. In any case, Mrs Muižniece is also with good knowledge in languages, and I think she will be able to perform her duties in honour, but in her speech she did not mention any words about exactly how much the Minister of Education Ilga Šuplinska has done. And so, working on... The Employment Council, which includes the Minister for Economic Affairs, the Minister for Welfare (or the Minister) and the Minister for Education and Science, must of course pay great attention to employment issues. So at the moment we look at the analytical data... And in employment it is very important to align education opportunities and education... vocational training with the necessary labour market. On the other hand, when looking at other countries too, it can be seen that from childhood, young people are taught the economy with practical examples. Not to watch more tables and extes, and different macro and micro indicators, but to think more about how to earn money. And you don't have to be shy about teaching our children from the first classes that money doesn't come out in the payouts, but it comes out at work - often really hard, responsible at work. This kind of programme, which should be developed through such a prism, in my opinion, is currently lacking in our country. So the so-called "entrepreneur" gene is often not formed, when a young man seeks great success, wants to create a large company, to employ people, not even to become workers, but to employ people and therefore to develop this man... professional skills. That is why I welcome Mrs Šuplinska's work in several categories. Yes, as I said, there have also been many different differences of opinion, or rather differences of opinion. That is probably normal, but I would like to thank you in any case. Mrs Muižniece is eligible for this post, and now I appreciate her ability to work, looking at her professional qualities. Of course, the issue of emotionality in the context of a sector that is also emotional can lead to more than thoughts and many different solutions, but to more sparks. In any case, the position is responsible and there are many challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U127	The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U128	Dear colleagues, The processes currently taking place in the Saeima reflect the reality of the government. The coalition has exhausted itself, so the process is now under way, which is natural and was expected in advance. The other thing is how it is in line with the promise that this issue of a coalition should not be observed before the municipal elections. Some observers in the political processes mistakenly believe that another political stance in the government is impossible, because, you see, Conservatives say: we will not work with the greens and farmers, but some others have said that with the "Conciliation" - by no means. Of course, one thing is slogans, and the other one is real politics, because, as we can see, the new conservative party has cooperated with the opposition without any criticism of conscience. And the National Association, too. In turn, I call on Anita Muižniece to work in such a way that in the long term we can increase education funding in Latvia to six percent of GDP; to work in such a way as to significantly increase the prestige of the teaching profession and pay, to protect teachers from burnout syndrome as far as possible and to reduce unnecessary bureaucracy in schools, and to never demonstrate a haughty official attitude towards educators. I hope you succeed, Mrs. Muižniece. I would also like to wish you to introduce free meals in kindergartens and all schools to the 12th grade. This is possible if there is a will and a political will. Please also help universities to achieve international competitiveness, export capacity and development goals. Finally, one final point. Your main priority, as I understand it at the time of your appointment, will be to do everything possible to bring all students back to school on 1 September. At least you talked about this in your interview with the Latvian Radio. The aim is noble, and I fully support this idea, but the question is, as you will, if the Minister for Health, Mr Pavļuta, has already been able to question this priority in the interview today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U129	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U130	Thank you. Dear colleagues, The formation of the new government is very similar to the restoration of beauty salons. Here, I cannot agree with what Mr Zarins said about the fact that the director of the salon has drawn up a list of candidates according to the principles of protection or defence of the interests of the parties. Nothing new here is that the candidates were planted in front of them after the title was placed in alphabetical order. It's a little detail that also details... which also illustrates how all its policies are shaped. But when it comes to the candidates of the Minister of Education and Science... I would also like to say that it is good that a person applying for this post has worked at school, understands school problems, understands that distance training is more problematic than results and success, and is very keen and willing to get students to go to school on 1 September. Very cool. I just wish I could... I understand that the candidate will be approved. On the other hand, I would like to ask you to draw attention to an issue which, in my opinion, is as important as the quality of education, improving the educational process, everything else - it is school education. Raising today is a weakness, Achilles heel throughout this training process. In addition to this, it is very difficult for an educated person to be a full member of society, to be a fully-fledged and powerful member of society, to be a high-quality citizen and a patriot of his land. It seems to me that this is one of the most important priorities when we are talking about pupils' education and learning processes in schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U131	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U132	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, Dear Ms. Muižniece, Well, I have to say, it's very weird... I also join my colleagues in the way in which we have so far voted, which is in a way even more strange than behind the formation of the new government itself. In a way, it is quite crazy if Mrs Šuplinska fell into such a great cruelty from her party, and this cruelty is not already a story of Mrs Šuplinska being removed from her ministerial office, but rather that the cruelty lies in the fact that, unfortunately, I think what, now, two-three weeks about the fact that Mrs Šuplinska will be changed, the political culuares were already spoken, in my view, not just a single party in the process. So, colleagues... in a way, also from this party man who went on to sign this one-page, which I'm going to talk about later on... It is not a manly act on their part, and it certainly does not show anything good for people if against ministers - against their ministers! - It's so easy to do it. Because they all knew, except for Mrs. Šuplinska himself. And I think that's not right. It shows you... Well, I can handle matters in such a respectful way. But right, right, right. We now have Mrs. Muižniece. Madam Muižniece, of course, thank you for your speech. But I will draw attention to what is written on the one page of this new government, where all that this government will do in the years ahead of the elections is placed on one page. And let's go through it step by step. Changes in higher education. I, my fellow Members, would like to remind you once again of this entire epic when Mrs Šuplinsk lost her confidence in a very shameful way... lost in court proceedings at the University of Latvia and the University of Latvia defended their mundier and protected their autonomous right to decide on their own rector. In the interim, we saw that Mrs Šuplinska was already able to appoint her rector, and then the court annulled. The whole process... Adverse Drug Reactions As a result, we gained a reform of university governance, where the only change is the creation of university councils. Everything else, my colleague, I think it's like... Well, it's such a butaphoria. The main change is the appointment of councils, which we will, by nature, begin... Let us engage very much in university autonomy. Here, Prime Minister, when you talked about university autonomy and university councils, about university reform, I would be ashamed for you. Because you still represent a party whose issues of openness, these issues of transparency, at least I thought, were in some way before... priority. But I was shocked that, in this process, the Saeima decides with a light hand on the things that these members of the university councils will not have to make public, most of the information - both on duties and on many other very important sections - will not have to be made public. This, I think, is a very big stain... exactly in your garden, because at least I wanted to hope that the New Unity stood up for these things, including Development/About! , at least you create such an image - that it matters to you, but unfortunately it is not, and that is not good. But coming back to the Minister... Mrs. New Minister... I see that, even in this case, the desire to become ministers is so great that the work to be done, which is being put into the field of education in these two sentences... In my opinion, the very important area that should appear here has been forgotten. And that would have been the most direct issue in the next budget. This is what all political parties had promised to the trade union of education and science workers in Latvia – the position of teachers... on the workload of teachers. Also on the issue of preschool educators, which was put in the declaration of the previous government... Sub-topic 1.2 — Transmitters The issue of preschool teachers will be addressed, but in this one page it no longer appears as a priority, colleagues! This leads me to think that this question of preschool educators is likely to be addressed by the next Saeima, because this Saeima is a question... And, unfortunately, before the municipal elections, you are basically saying this in this action document: this issue will not be addressed. I would call on you - well, show you, however, that you can stand up on such an important issue, because I think this is one of the most important issues... It is precisely this ancient, stuck issue of the preschool in some way that moves, solves and goes in the direction to make it happen. But, of course, there can be no mention of the chaos that Mrs Šuplinsk had in some way created, and that was Covid-19 during the crisis. We have all seen a number of diametrically opposite changes that were in terms of reinstatement - then it will be possible, then it will not; clearly says at the beginning of the week that it will be possible, all schools are preparing, on Thursday, to say that it will not be possible. This caused huge shocks. I call on the new ministers to be more predictable and to remember, when dealing with these issues, that every word you put forward... There are many people who perceive it directly and further perform certain actions according to what you have said. And to make sure that your word is then fulfilled and that there is no such thing as it was, unfortunately, during Shuplinsk's time. At the same time, however, as Mrs Šuplinska was a representative of your party, to some extent, of everything that Mrs Šuplinska did, you also supported, so it will be interesting to see what its new changes will be, and it will be even more interesting to see if this tandem continues - Mrs Muižniece together with Mr Znotiņš. I want you to really move towards a common goal, not one for everyone, because two ministers cannot be in the ministry, and I also call on you to see how to work together as a team, because for some time you will have to work there. In a way, it would really benefit society as a whole if you were to work as a team. This is the wish I have for you, but, the New Conservative Party, remember that (especially now, when, with the approval of this new government, the first internal division takes place in your group, just as it was in the CPV LV Group, when the government of Karina approved)... Ask yourself how long you will be united because, in my opinion, all your partners with whom you have signed contracts will be exactly those who will do everything you can to experience the fate of the JPV LV. In a way, they are very, very good at the moment, because all this is happening - you are going in the same direction in principle, and you will need the support of the opposition to deliver on your promises. Be strong! And on the question of the salaries of pre-school educators, on the issue of raising the rates of educators' salaries, we will be with you, we will support you on these issues, but you must prove from the beginning that you are really ready to bring it to the Saeima on the vote. You need to prove it. At the moment, unfortunately, we have no confidence that you would be... You retain control over the Ministry, which you have led very, very chaoticly, even today, even if we look at what questions are being asked to municipalities today, in what context this is happening - within a week, prepare information about which IT technologies you will need in September! Well, we need to be particularly wise to ask such a question so quickly and hope to receive balanced answers, really accurate, in what way the planning of the work is going on. That chaos must end. This chaos was created by you, and this is also one of the reasons why I cannot support Mrs Muižniece's candidacy. But I expressed my wishes and my support for the works that could follow. At the moment, unfortunately, in this case too, we see that there has been a desire for posts. He's gone to position, about the work to be done... at least after this sophisticated document, which is called the Action Plan... I think that's... cartoons are worth it, but what is recorded here in the field of education, unfortunately, does not withstand criticism because they are very general phrases, but the most important things here have not found place even at the level of general phrases. I therefore call for the 'no' vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U133	We are continuing the debate. Mr Gobzem, please apply again to the system. There has been a small mistake. Please log in again. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U134	I will also explain to you why, but it is absolutely clear that my ex-wife would certainly be a better minister for education and science than Anita Muižniece. That is the reason, to understand you, for Mrs Muižniece's speech before her appointment, which is her vision of the most important issue in the country, on which the prosperity of our country depends. That's why my wife would be a Minister for Education and Science better than Anita Muižniece. She's for me... Recently, we met and she said a thing that should have been said to Anita Muižniece today, namely that the state budget programmes for humanities must be reduced and that secondary school is an institution where young people are really preparing for university studies. Perhaps it could also be done that mathematics is not just an object “that I will never need” (in the last few “that I will never need”). She formulated it differently, but I think it's more polite here, because, of course, the names you just imagined should not be used at the sittings of the Saeima. What does the vast majority of graduates of Latvian secondary schools study, especially those who “do not pull”? Humanities. If you don't hit the Riga Centre School, but, for example, do it... Anita Muižniece is studying, for five years, language or social science, which a student of today’s primary school learns in a few months, at the Cesis or Daugmale School from which I understand it. Today’s children are also prepared to learn literature early, not only language. In the meantime, for example, there are only 20, it seems that there are budgets or more than ten, and the health care system is lowered to the point. That is why we are still sitting with masks and restrictions, although in Estonia, for example, restrictions, as we know... and the masks don't have to wear anymore. Latvia is wetting the heat for the first unicorn, while in Estonia, IT start-up was sold for 1.4 billion euros last year, and they have TransferWise, Bolt, Skype, Playtech... Why? Because there's another focus on the education system. The graph with the comparative GDP of the Baltic States was visible this week, and Latvia was quite clearly the last one among the three Baltic countries. This is the result of the education system. Humanities must be studied for public money - and this should have been said to the future minister for education and science - those who will become teachers and educators, and just and everything. Others can study humanities, but they can study for their money. The desire to study the physical objects must be strengthened. There is a need to give targeted national scholarships to the best, motivated to choose to study cross-sectoral subjects, giving money to specific young people with good results in subjects. In one word, the pursuit of excellence should be developed and promoted, rather than go down, to mediocre as a norm. Everything in our country is mediocre. Moderateity as a rule is that we end up with a moderate premiere with “doctoral work”. You'll see that doctor's work - as the word "step" is spoken. We have a foreign minister who is not beyond the bear. The Minister of Economics simply - I quote his words, they are not my words - “snake ice”, and he himself admits it without embarrassing. But so far, the Minister of Education and Science from the party that was... For a long Shuplinska there was a Pandora box from where she can take this salary for the educators. I would remind you that Mrs Muižniece seems to have been a parliamentary secretary in the Ministry of Education and Science. Am I wrong? And have we noticed these cutting-edge ideas that improve the quality of education in Latvia so far? What do I mean by that? In particular, excellence also means developing and improving the quality of education in educational establishments where young people are trained for specific professions. Cesis was mentioned in this speech, and Cesis Technology and Design Secondary School are an outstanding example, so there was also the word “Cesis”. The same is true in health care. The same is true in agriculture. Then it will not be that for a fee, of course, everyone can get today for lunch under the scalp, but free of charge for the sonography - after half a year. And the only thing that is left is to trust in science, because it says in “Panorama. ” Then it will be prestigious to get professional education, it will be prestigious to be a scientist, there will be many good doctors, there will be many good educators, not half of the country with average lawyers or intellectual thinkers and reformers on paper for smart industrialisation. And I have to do it, and I should say to Anita Muižniece today as the future Minister of Education and Science that all those who receive money from the State Culture Capital Fund have to work at a music school or an art school, or at a school in the Daugmale primary school. You need to give your knowledge to your children. It was Chuck, it was Bridgedre, it should also be done by Osvald Zebrim in literature, Kriš Salmanis in visual art and the same Samantha Tina in music. Perhaps one of them is already doing this, but it must be a prerequisite for receiving public money and a grant. You got me. I'm not talking about vaccination or... It's not about... let's die or not, and it's not a conspiracy theory or... everything is bad. This is my text about the future of the country. I mean much more, and I mean, dear people, right. It is absolutely clear that today the Prime Minister should have been to me. And such a speech can only be made at the parliamentary tribunal by Member Gobzem, not by the potential minister for education, who says something, but who has no idea about education and a rich country in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U135	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U136	Dear colleagues, We'll probably talk a lot more about Mrs. Muižniece. We will have another year, maybe even less time, from how stable this government will be, but I see that there is also a plan to take part here... present Minister of Education and Science Šuplinska. She has been introduced into the system as an ISM, but it is a pity that she does not participate, and I really would like to hear from the present Minister of Education and Science what she thinks about this whole situation. If there is no new Unity or someone else has filled Mrs Šuplinska with a post or a intimidation, I very much hope that soon we in the Saeima will be able to hear the truth here, too, why such a change of ministers has taken place in the field of education and science, because what we are hearing is obviously not true. She has worked so well, and we are therefore calling for another to replace her - that is what we are hearing, and that is the lie that we have yet to hear, just like every minister we have heard today - that is the lie. And shamelessly lying you can lie to yourself, to each other, but society lie - of course, there must be a very, very cynical. But if we are talking about these things that need to be done, about what concerns society at the moment without everything that colleagues have called it, I could say that I do not know with what purpose Mrs Muižniece has been placed in this post. Does she really have the courage and the desire to solve problems, or is she placed in office as a person who will do a black job and then be able to write off her? UNIFORMITY used to place such ministers. That is why I have to understand whether Mrs Muižniece has heard and understood that at present a large number of students are at the border of such a settlement, because there is a danger of discrimination in higher education. This is about a number of universities where there is a very, very strange sorting process, strange rector's orders are issued for the next school year and even more... Even now, even students must present certificates at the time of arrival on various examinations, be vaccinated at least once and then receive a doctor's sign that they have this reaction after they have received any reaction. A person almost dies, and then he has to go and put these tests. We have an answer from the Ombudsman that this sort of student sorting is discriminatory. We have an answer from the Minister for Health that he publicly admits that in February, when the student was worried about the vaccination questionnaires, he lied to the public saying that there will be no discrimination. At present, there is a completely different view for the Minister for Health. This will also have to be addressed by the new Minister for Education and Science. Is Mrs Muižniece the black labourer who is in office to wipe out everything good that remains in this area at the moment, completely all people who need protection at the moment... Is that so? Will they reject their requests? Will Mrs Muižniece listen to these problems and try to find a solution? Because what is currently happening in higher education, including workers working in this field, is an unprecedented case. This will have to be addressed in any case either by the Ministry or by any other institution. So I would very much like to understand Mrs. Muižniece's thoughts in this direction, which is very many people now... It will be very topical at the end of this summer. Of course, parents also expect not only to bring children back to school under normal conditions, but also that children will remain at peace, will not be burdened with countless tests, poor quality and even dangerous masks, which have been bought by children by the Ministry of Defence under very strange conditions. That's all the parents want. So, not only to bring children back to school and see each other, but also this attitude towards children - it must be human and protective, without distinguishing children by any features. And, of course, do not force children to vaccinate. Let us wait for what Mrs. Muižniece will say. Really... whether she is a insert, or she is a man who could solve something. Thank you. I will call on my colleagues to vote 'no' at the moment, because Mrs Muižniece has not yet shown any sign that she can solve the problem. She's just a person of the system. If she proves that she is a man who can hear the other people who are... Well, behind the walls of the ministry that can hear the parents, maybe her credit of trust will grow, but at the moment I do not have a clear situation with why the ministers need to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U137	Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U138	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Just yesterday with my colleagues... and in the Union of Greens and Farmers we discussed the possible candidacy of Anita Muižniece... on the Ministry of Education and Science. Some of my fellow Members said that it could hardly be worse if we looked at how the new conservative party in the field of education and science has managed so far. Listening to Mrs Muižniece's speech, I really listened to the good performance of the preschool teacher about the child, about priorities and so on, but what made me concerned about what Mrs Muižniece said was that we will continue with the changes that have taken place and bring them to the end. Will there be continued inequalities between preschool teachers and other educators? Will there be a chaotic continuation of the model of wages and loads? How exactly... September 1 children will be able to go to school? And other questions. Also - will cooperation with the Latvian Education and Science Workers' Union take place in the same arrogant form as has been the case with the Ministry of Education and Science so far? And many, many different issues, including education and science, most importantly, science outside Riga. Therefore, colleagues, I cannot support Mrs Muižniece's candidacy right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U139	I closed the debate. Name of the Ministers... Prime Minister. Please, Mr. Karin!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U140	Thank you, colleagues. I call on you to support this candidate for the position of minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U141	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Expression of Trust to Anita Muižniece, Minister of Education and Science”! Please, let's vote! For - 54, for - 34, for - 1. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On expressing confidence to the Minister for Welfare Gatis Eglitis”. Name to Prime Minister Kariņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U142	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members, Honourable Members! Colleagues! Ministers! The fourth minister I propose to the Saeima for discussion and support is the new Minister for Welfare. On the welfare area, I would like to emphasise three things that I think are important. The first is an overview and overview of what our benefit system is like in such a country. We have also seen at the time of the special community that benefits can be very important in some cases, especially in crises, but we also have a wide range of daily benefits. And one of the challenges that emerged directly during the pandemic is that mostly in our country benefits have been granted to certain categories of people, but we do not, as a country, sort out needs. So there the parents of children would be certain benefits, but we do not differentiate those who would have a higher income from those who would have a lower income, in fact indirectly, but by increasing inequality in the country. In my opinion, we should take a serious look at the system of benefits as a whole and look at ways in which we could make our benefits more efficient, more targeted and more focused for those citizens who need them. Perhaps with the same amount of money we could better support those who really need those benefits. At present, when paying benefits flat, we indirectly and wrongly think... increasing inequality in the country. And this is the question of what we need to work together to improve this system. The second question relates to what I have already said about our economic growth. The pandemic has also shown us that sometimes people work in a sector that has either temporary or longer-term challenges: simply job opportunities are beginning to decline, and it is very important for us - and it is also the responsibility of the Ministry of Welfare - to re-skill workers, all courses and the whole system. I think we need to place ever more emphasis... help connect demand in the labour market with the qualifications that people have, because we often have difficulties in looking for employees... we would also have people looking for a job, but the difficulty is that their skills do not match market demand, and its key is this area of the Ministry of Welfare - retraining. There we have already invested additional funds in this pandemic, many workers have also taken advantage of the opportunity to reskill, and it has also helped to keep and even reduce our unemployment rates, but there is still much to do here. I believe that this would also be one very important area to pay more attention to. Third but not least. We've seen that... At this time of the Covid-19 pandemic, it turned out that its arrangements with social care centres have been well below what the country would need, which would be for our citizens. We have public social care centres, we have municipal social care centres, we have private social care centres, but we see that unfortunately - and this is also clearly indicated by our State Audit Office report - there are gaps in supervision and order, and this is also a sphere where it is very important to take action now. I think for a new minister, with your support, this would be a very important field for granting... where to turn. The candidate is known to you all. At the moment - Member of the Saeima Gatis Eglitis. He has experience working in the European Commission, he has experience working in the office of the Minister for Economic Affairs, he also, of course, has experience working in the Saeima, and I believe... I invite you to support his candidacy for this post. I would like to take this opportunity to express my public thanks to the Minister for his work so far. I call on you, my fellow Members, to support Mr Eglitis with a vote in favour of our next government... the Minister for the Welfare of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U143	Thank you to the Prime Minister. Mr. Eglis, would you have 10 minutes, please?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U144	Yeah. Name to Member Gatis Eglitis. Please! Dear President, Sir, Dear Members, Honourable Members! First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the New Conservative Party for the opportunity that is being given me for this nomination. I would like to say that it is a great honour for me to be part of this re-started government, hopefully. It is a great honour to work for the country. I would like to point out very briefly the main priorities, but certainly not the only priorities that I see in my work and which will have to be addressed. So issues in close, close cooperation with industry, in close cooperation with the social partners. The first, as the Prime Minister said, is the situation in social care centres, specifically with regard to the distribution of the community. And one of my first tasks will be to ask the Ministry to prepare a concrete plan within a few weeks to be ready for autumn months, when it is likely that there might be an increase in the distribution of the community once again, so that we are really ready so that we can protect the health of residents and employees of social care centres and also, of course, life. Second point: I would like to emphasise that I will continue to take care of the growth of pensioners' incomes, the same EUR 500 inequitable minimum. I believe that it would only be fair if pensions in the amount of the minimum salary were not taxed, as well as the further increase of the minimum pension, which was started after the decision of the Constitutional Court. Plus, of course, annual indexation. The third point. Family state benefit is a very important reform, which has to be said, over the last 15 to 20 years, so fundamental and so resource-intensively changed, let us say, the family state aid formula. I hope that this will also be a real impulse for improving the demographic situation. Well, obviously, for us this is not a glowing situation. Point 4. I would like to emphasise the protection of children's rights. Together with the Ministry of Justice, there will be close cooperation, rapidly improving, of course, the financial situation of social workers, and hence the motivation. Five. The work of the State Employment Agency. I see that there are possible improvements there, addressing accordingly the issues raised by the Prime Minister - that often these trainings did not actually meet the needs of the labour market. It is clear to us that every euro we invest in, and it is mainly European money, which must be obtained... Maximum efficiency and return. It is very important that I receive your support: I will also have a place at the government ministerial table where I will be able to contribute, knowledge of matters relating to economic support, financial and budgetary stability, security, foreign affairs and other matters. In conclusion, I would like to thank my parliamentary colleagues, especially my group Members, who are the best team in the Saeima - I have no doubt about this. Plus, of course, the members of the Commission on Budgets and Finance (Tax), the Committee on European Affairs, the Members of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and all other colleagues. So thank you and I call for your support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U145	Dear colleagues, I have a question for Mr Valaiņa. Would you please have seven minutes in the debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U146	I'm sorry... Unfortunately, it does not seem enough.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U147	Okay, in that case, we will continue the debate after a break. I would propose a break by 5 p.m. and we would continue the debate. Thus, only registration of the presence of Members is required. This has happened. Interruption until 5 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U148	Dear colleagues, We are continuing the debate after a break, but first, please open a section on the procedure. Please apply Member Ivars Zariņš for the procedure. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U149	Colleagues, I have a question about the procedure. I wanted to understand...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U150	We can't hear you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U151	Well, for those who can't hear, again. I have a question about the procedure. How are we working today? Has there been any specific decision by the Bureau that we have changed our timetable? Because it's usually the set schedule that's been set, and we're working for one and a half hours, and it's a break for half an hour. Now breaks are fixed, just looking at the clock. I would like to receive clarification about this and also to understand in general how we continue to organise our work, because it is already evening. Is it planned that we will be looking at the rest of the important legislative issues overnight - after we have solved what was needed... to solve what the coalition needs? Will national issues be dealt with in the dark of the night, and the Saeima will have to work as a voting machine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U152	Mr. Neighbours, you on the procedure, too?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U153	Hello, colleagues! I'm also about the procedure. Well, I am listening carefully to every speaker. And about those times I have to agree with Ivars Zariņš that you can't really understand that time frame -- what and how. That is why I would also like to say about the previous vote that I had simply gone to the facilities and was unable to vote on the new education ministers, for which I am very sorry. My vote is in favour. But that's precisely why you can't already... sit all the time and don't understand that frame when we end up... Really. Because the flood of speech is for each of them in 15 minutes, and I don't understand what's now... Maybe you really need to be clear about all this. So in this case, I have to join Ivars Zarins, because I also run to the next room with my younger family and he can't understand how these schedules are going on here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U154	I take note of your reproofs, but the Rules of Procedure do not set a schedule and breaks. We are working very intensively today, this is our working life, and we have another sitting before us today. That is why I decided to shorten the break. We shall continue the sitting of the Saeima with a question on the agenda - draft decision on the expression of trust to the Minister for Welfare, Gatis Eglitis. Debate: Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U155	Very respectful Head of the sitting! At least for me, there is more than one sitting on the agenda sent by the Saeima Bureau today, but now we will see how we will get there. The debate, I think, is going to just continue; questions are not easy either. But yes, for my part, I congratulate Gati Eglīte on becoming... approaching to become a member of the Cabinet of Ministers and Minister for Welfare. As Mr Eglitis pointed out in his speech that other issues are important to him, I think there will be an interesting debate in the government between Mr Reira and Mr Eglitis, who I think we will all be able to watch. Moreover, for our part, we hope that this debate will make some positive contribution to the work of the Latvian state and government, and to the faith in the work of the government, because it is currently extremely low. But when I talk about the values that I would like to touch today... I really... This is the moment when we can talk not only about the wish of the New Conservative Party to hold office, but we can also talk about the wish of the New Unity to hold office. And here, in the most direct way, I am talking about the desire of the New Unity to hold office. I really have a very... I, like most of my parliamentary colleagues, was looking forward today to the words by Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš calling for the support of Gati Eglīte as Minister for Welfare, who will be the positive things he will point out. We've all heard Gatis Eglitis is a member of the Saeima who is... Yes, which is a criterion, but at least I cannot forget Gata Eglīks' statements a few weeks ago about our Prime Minister, about our Prime Minister's historical experience in entrepreneurship, about his family business. I think it was rather sharp, and the words made in this way, I think, have also been left to the Prime Minister's memory if they had reached him. In any case, it will, I think, be a challenge for the government to work together: this mutual relationship... We were all witnessing these true ideas about our government leader and what this new team member thinks about Mr Reira. It will be a great challenge for these people to find a common language after as much as they said. But now, I think we have seen a lot of powerful transformations, and in this case I turn to Mr Eglitis personally, and I call on Mr Eglitis to think about the minimum social contributions that will come into force from 1 July. I call again and again... You yourself took part in one of the debates where you said that you could also support at some point. I would very much like to believe that it was not your position, so that in this government basement negotiations, where government was formed, wherever it was - whether it was a cafe or one of Sigulda's terraces, no matter what. Do you really... whether it was not just a populist show to make a price in some way. I very much hope that this was not the case, and you will really be thinking about this. I hope that today, or one of the next sittings, the question of minimum social contributions by the Greens/Farmers Union is already on the agenda... on the postponing of this issue, but I also hope that you will not forget this issue as a member of the government, but will do something to prevent it from coming into force. But here, too, is another example of this great haste and the true nature that this government is built only on the principle - which will have a job - and, unfortunately, there is nothing to do about the work to be done. If this really shows a document that the government calls the work to be done... When we talked about education, I touched on it. Unfortunately, we will now vote in favour of the Minister for Welfare. If we look at this document that the government is going to implement - what will then be the work that will be done before the elections? The indexing named by Mr Eglišs, the minimum pensions, the inexpensive minimum of 500. Do you think that there is even the smallest sentence in it, even a little mention of the ideological direction in this political text, which was signed by the representatives of the four political parties on the work to be done? Is there at least one call to move forward in the execution of 3 × 500 promises in the execution of a minimum pension? Colleagues! I read this document several times, and there is no word - no word! - the whole area as such. There is no mention of welfare there. It does not cover this area. And that makes me think about those political priorities. I really see there's been a huge rush here. I think someone last minute remembered: wait, colleagues, we need to sign here. And made this one-page. And that one-page is just tragic if we look at the social sphere. What Mr. Eglitis said. Mr Eglitis, we will not only support you, we will also encourage and present our vision, our proposals, and we very much hope that you with your financial knowledge... creating this “3 × 500” offer, which failed the critical eye of your colleagues in shaping the government. Maybe now that you're in government... Because as a minister... you will have all the instruments, you will be able to do what your colleagues - Mr Bordan and Mr. Linkait - did not do in the government... What they couldn't do. Perhaps you will succeed, though. Well, the whole social sphere will be in your hands. The minimum pension is 200 euros. I am ready to vote for this, Mr. Eglitis! Everything's in your hands. I will support you as much as I can. And if you have forgotten these promises, for my part, I will remind you of how often you will need them, just as I will remind you of the minimum social contributions. The agenda for these issues... There will be no loss of topicality. It is our duty, as the opposition, to do so. Yet, I will again turn to THE NEW Unity. Today, I really think the vote shows how young unity is exactly... Not the New Conservative Party, but very often it is the New Unity that is ready for every step to just get to... to keep government baskets. And there's nothing to do with government development, stability, professionals, just one desire to hold on to positions. In this case, I will appeal to Mr Asheraden, because it is not a secret, we have all worked together, including Mr Eglišs... There was a reason why I left this team, but there were also reasons why Mr Asheraden's roads were different to Mr Eglišs. And Mr. Asheraden has spoken about them. So I really think I hope you haven't forgotten these things and you're going to see the government really working on the best intentions, so that the government works transparently, so that we are all sure that the government is moving even a little bit of legal... in the legal direction, in the legal direction. Colleagues! That's all for me. I call on Mr Eglišs to fight for another five hundred, taking on this post, so that, as you said, he will also fight for two hundred. I would like to remind the Prime Minister - and of course you have spoken about reducing their inequality and inequality - of the decisions taken in the budget last year on the elimination of micro-enterprises tax in principle, of the minimum social contributions currently imposed on citizens during the crisis. This will clearly reduce inequality, of course, clearly if you think so. I don't think so, I think it will just increase it. On the waste of state budget funds, which you mentioned here... for these benefits, that these benefits are due to people who may not be entitled to them. There are now a number of seniors, honorable seniors. And I had the opportunity to discuss it with one elder who has more than three thousand euros of pension. He asked me: why did he count this EUR 200? Doesn't the country really have where to put the money? And these are the decisions made by your government, EUR 200 per senior. This is really important and it was necessary, but could not really have been done so that these EUR 200 were targeted, and perhaps give one more euro to someone who really needs it, not to everyone in turn, according to this one criterion. Couldn't you really think about such things? And that... Colleagues, I think, are a whole series of areas where the government has to think about a really greater contribution to the budget for next year. We have a whole range of areas where money is wasted, but all pretend not to see it. Instead, we create new and new burdens, increasing inequalities in principle. Increasing inequality by subtracting 100 million to municipalities this year, another 100 million is planned to be subtracted next year - a total of 250 million, of which will be affected most directly by the regions. The regions will suffer the most. By distributing this fund's money, it is assumed that only Riga suffers, although all statistics show that both Riga and the regions suffer the same, only the money is distributed... 85 percent in Riga, the rest of the money gives to the regions - well, aim... Well, divide all together as it is. As if they were not involved in the healthcare system at all. This is reducing the inequality that you are talking about. The decisions taken by your government increase the inequality between citizens and also territorially. Transport infrastructure investment, debt repaid to Riga... What debt? What did Riga owe? This money is really needed in the regions. At the same time, we'll have to... the path of the train to Boldera or to whom it will be invested. Colleagues, in my opinion, the decisions taken are the result of reducing this inequality... has been adopted in the very opposite direction. A whole series of decisions which, in the other words, increase this gap. Most importantly, it is increased from a territorial point of view. Development scenarios... Territorially, I think that at the moment our capital is continuing to move away from the rest of the region, because it is quite simply a policy of the present time that is aimed at investing money in public administration. Recovery Fund. Eleven per cent of this money goes to municipalities, the rest to public administration. As regards the territorial distribution of money in the Pierya region, regardless of whether this money... where this money is more needed. Investing... there was even a desire to invest money, where the market itself is able to implement the issues that have to be done. So, colleagues, I ask you to think about these things before you make decisions. Mr Eglitis: to really deliver on our pre-election promises when it comes to government. But in view of the fact that this government is being imposed only by dividing posts, not to mention works, which are clearly demonstrated by the fact that no word has been added from the social sphere in this one page, which the new government's creators have all signed together... Colleagues, will you really not have a social priority next year? Thank you. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U156	The name to Member Ralph Nemir. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U157	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Now we can look back on the work done by Minister for Welfare Ramona Petraviča. The welfare sector is indeed not an easy sector; we have already heard in the debate here; in fact, money is always lacking. At the moment, it has to be said that pensions are, in some cases, below every criticism, in principle lower than the national minimum subsistence. This will of course have to be addressed in particular. It was Ramona Petraviča who fought and also received support from the Minister of Finance, in this case thanks to his insistence to receive a supplement to the social budget and to pay the pensioners higher pensions. It has certainly been appreciated and remembered by every pensioner who received these extra funds. Ramona Petraviča was also the one who was very strongly in favour of the cost of EUR 200 for pensioners who were very vulnerable during the community, given that this crisis is in fact linked to the spread of infection and therefore requires additional expenditure on medicines. Ramona Petraviča is a very brave woman, because she was the one who talked about the inaccuracy, perhaps the false community test results in social care centres. This was also discussed in the Cabinet of Ministers. This question, like once on social networks, has also gained resonance and raised questions. But it was just, and so it was a bold step from her side. Ramona has also worked on seniors like... all homes meeting welfare standards, which could be an alternative to existing homes, with 200-300 people with a very high probability of additional infection. This work has also started, and the new Minister for Welfare, if it is approved, will certainly have very great challenges in order to keep the issue in order. The means of the Recovery Fund are once for prosperity, and of the many programmes that have not been supported and deleted by the European Commission and that have been transferred for recycling as a crèche, but this programme has been supported in the prosperity chapter, and I am pleased with this work. Ramona Petraviča sector has been very supportive, very human and has always responded to the calls to help, at least to understand the problem and to speak in the Cabinet to obtain additional funds. If we are talking about a candidate for the position of Minister for Welfare, Mr Eglīsis has knocked on various offices, trying to get into different chairs - both in the chair of the Minister for Finance, in the chair of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Minister for Finance and in the chair of the Minister for Economics. Today, obviously, we have managed to get to the Saeima's vote to get into the chair of the Minister for Welfare. Many colleagues in the Saeima have also said today that, in fact, this is a unique specialist who could perhaps also be a calf... childbirth to accept, agricultural problems to solve, perhaps with a paper plug also the door open and other useful things to do. But this is an irony that should now be seen in the context of the candidate's own speech. The candidate said that he was a good specialist in the economy and finance, financial intelligence, in various other sectors, so, of course, there will be a big contribution to the Cabinet of Ministers. I think that the criticism that has been addressed to other cooperation partners and colleagues could now perhaps also be played as an additional instrument, however once these welfare problems in terms of lack of funding could also be addressed. It is no secret that in the party's programme, let us say, it's the loud "3 × 500" or other social benefits and other payments will require very large financial resources in the next year's budget. Of course, on the part of the political forces of the parents, the more experienced political forces, the wonderful opportunity to give the new censor the opportunity to express themselves and also to account for the work that has been or will not be done, thus pointing to the feasibility of implementing this programme, or on the contrary, the impossible. It is precisely because the state budget is clearly known to us... about. It may change slightly from year to year, but not substantially. In this case, of course, it is not of rubber. Any such initiative will come with a very, very... fiscal impact. We will be able to see this if such a request is made 13. The Saeima's last budget will be submitted, supported. It is fair to say that the possible constitutional crisis indicated by the President of Latvia... What the President spoke a little about... most likely, it may be precisely that such a budget may not be adopted - from the point of view that ambition will be greater than understanding how much money is available and what will be voted upon. It must be admitted that, when we look at the emotional votes, which, in my opinion, we have unfortunately been allowed very often in politics recently (also to remember the case of Varakļāni, where we actually left already contrary to the decision of the Constitutional Court), we can find ourselves in similar situations very often if such proposals were submitted to the budget from the Minister of Welfare. However, I must say that such an effort and the statements that have now been made make it possible to think about a positive mood, because the candidate for a ministerial post has also spoken publicly about the construction of housing that is compatible with the general public and suitable for seniors, which would be a good opportunity for seniors to spend time in very safe conditions. So that the Minister for Welfare really has to deal with this issue; I think it is even very right that the Minister is looking in that direction. And if he's still an economic specialist, he's going to finance, foreign affairs, agriculture, agriculture... Well, in fact in all areas of the Cabinet of Ministers, it would also be a contribution and assistance to the Prime Minister. However, if, at the moment, I gave a little more consideration to this, then for such an experienced politician as the Prime Minister, it was clear - at least so I believe - that the fifth player in the government - the fifth political force - was, as it once was, not a barrier, but a balance. In this case, there is no such balance anymore and between the four lots of all the lots... It will therefore be up to them to decide whether or not this government will be able to work. If the emotions hit a high wave, then we can predict that the spark will jump and there is an absolute potential for some ambition to go beyond the real opportunities that the state budget can realise. And if another finance minister is strangled (in this sense, of course) and the Prime Minister has no chance of giving up any ambition without maintaining his government, then we can also come to the scenarios that I think political technologists have already looked at. In any case, I have said positive words about previous welfare ministers, and in this case, the stick has been installed at a sufficient height. The ambition of the new ministerial candidate is large enough, I think it is also necessary to give the opportunity to express and to work. We will be able to assess all those works in the near future, especially when we begin to identify the state budget, which will be recorded in the budget columns of this country, what agreement will be reached in the coalition, what agreement will be sought to push here, in the Saeima, through proposals during the budget review. We cannot predict this at the moment, but we can predict that the battles will be very sharp, hot, cruel, perhaps also at some point irrational, inadequate and, consequently, the resulting consequences... There is another aspect of prosperity that needs to be addressed - because of the cost of benefits, including loss of employment, in other aspects. Of course, cooperation between the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Welfare and the Ministry of Economics will be very important in this case. I mentioned earlier the Employment Council, which has an extremely important role to play when looking at the future, because problems which are not solved by the Ministry of Economic Affairs automatically fall within the Ministry of Welfare... which, in turn, are not resolved by the Ministry of Economics, they have previously emerged from the Ministry of Education and Science. Cooperation will certainly be extremely important here. If we look at the development of the country, then now... I don't try to be politically influenced either... but I would like us to see the development of the country really much faster... than we can see in comparison with our neighbours. In 2004, when we joined the European Union, it has to be said that then Estonia had gone a little further... later with the introduction of the euro, but with Lithuania we were still quite close to competition, in positive competition, of course... and healthy competition for economic growth. But right now, if we look at the figures, then we've come to a rather dramatic fall, and that's all the governments like this... Well, actually the reason. Undoubtedly within one year or where it is not possible to solve all the problems that have long been... Long. This applies not only to prosperity, but also to home affairs there were very big problems that have not been addressed, but now new political... The new politicians have, however, been working in a sufficiently intensive mode of work, which means that this ship is slowly starting to turn towards a better future. That is why, of course, the position of Minister for Welfare is a very important one. Those tapes that, as I said, have been raised quite high must be kept. I think that ambition should even increase and reach these common solutions at one point. I expect the budget, of course, with great enthusiasm. Many will certainly want to make proposals, to support them. Now the proposals will, of course... Now we have to put those that are involved in pre-elections such as... pre-election commitment - what we wanted to give to our citizens of Latvia as new policy makers. And this 2022 budget is then the last chance for all these commitments to be realised. That's why I wish you luck. Let's see how it goes. Cooperation between the Saeima and the Cabinet of Ministers on various platforms is certainly very topical, so that there will be no constitutional crisis, which was discussed by the President of Latvia. Please take this into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U158	Name of Member Evia Papulei. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U159	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister! In such a short time, it is hardly possible to transform an intolerant welfare mess into an appropriate and caring welfare system. Of course not. But, listening to the speech of the applicant and recalling that the aim (and this has been repeated) is the resolution of the covids, even the exit from the co-situation, I would like to remind you of some things that, as Mr Eglišs mentioned, may also be in his work plan, but were not mentioned... So I'll let you do it. First of all, if we are talking about people's well-being in their own country, including in the situation of counter-cooperatives or exit... from the community, then I also call on the teacher's kindness to be remembered, because teachers also need support for families and children. First. And secondly, teachers also need support... not only in the summer of supervision (a terrible word, to be honest), but in human and, I will not hide, also in financial terms. The government was not very generous to teachers, but it was not interested in how much real teachers received this extra support. I think that the Minister for Welfare should also take care of this part, because you will have a partner. The other thing. Now I do not know if and how many "five hundred" you will succeed and how it will be allowed from the party that owns the Prime Minister and also the financial divider. I'm not going to say 'five hundred', but yet, maybe you can look at the disability pensions that you didn't mention, and, nevertheless, maybe try to cope with such pensions and limited job opportunities, including, of course, health... try to survive, and then you will be clear about what to do with invalidity pensions, also because the financial impact there would probably be much less than the introduction of a 'five hundred', which would, of course, also be acceptable. But at this point... Well, in a little more than a year, which I hope you will be able to sit at the government table, you will also need real progress and that is what you can achieve in the debate with those who share the money. I hope you will have the strength in that respect, too. Third. You mentioned the State Employment Agency - through a review of training, but if honest, it should not be the training system itself, but the system of how to get into the unemployed, how people fill in many of the necessary formalities. So look at and change the system itself - it can be done within a year if there is a wish. Although it has to be said that the best way to do this is to get to that status. I do not wish you that, but the system can be tested, too, by sticking to it. Of course, thank you for your promise to the seniors, but I also wanted to hear a little bit about children - not only in terms of benefits, but also about children and support for families with special and special needs. There, too, can be done faster... in real terms, a more financially ambitious outcome. I call for this to be reviewed and made a priority, because children's policy has not been mentioned much in your speech. Perhaps it is in your plan, but again it is part of the work that needs to be done, perhaps it will be at your disposal. Of course, your time is not too long, and therefore I also allow you to suggest some ideas that would be useful as a support, including in the education system, but I hope that sitting at the government table will be used better and good if there are real results. But time will show you. Once more late, and I call on you to support education, I call on you to support children, I call on you to support families and I call on you to support those who cannot work on a full scale, not because they cannot find a job, but because it is justified, visible, acquired or otherwise... health disorders. Good luck, but, of course, I will support your recommendations, which will bring prosperity to people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U160	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U161	Okay. Gatis Eglitis, Minister for Welfare, UKP. Here are a number of things that need to be said. Firstly, for prosperity as a sector. In principle, Gatis Eglitis shouldn't have applied for... and agree to be a Minister for Welfare for a number of reasons. The first and the main reason is - and I will remind you - that before the parliamentary elections, the political organisation promised the KP with the Bordan at the forefront - and Gatis Eglitis was one of those who promised to reduce the national apparatus by 30 percent. What does that mean? This means that it was absolutely necessary to discuss the issue of the elimination of the Ministry of Welfare... as such. Why? Because the functions of the Ministry of Welfare can by their very nature be carried out by one department in the Ministry of Finance. What is the Ministry of Welfare doing, well, what is that huge task then? The Ministry of Welfare works, let's say, some kind of official apparatus to which some funds are allocated from the Ministry of Finance, and then these funds are given to pensioners very willingly - give them benefits and so on. All the task is, more than there is. Distributes the money allocated from the Ministry of Finance. The Department of Finance can also distribute the money. Thus, the Ministry of Welfare is certainly the first ministry to be abolished. The Ministry of Welfare does not depend on the welfare of the country. Welfare in the country depends on how many entrepreneurs will want to enter Latvia, become big, strong and rich. So... Consequently, a completely unnecessary ministry. Gatim Egly, in view of his party's promises, should have been given up. Secondly, I would like to agree with one colleague who has already said (I have not heard anything from Mr Eglitis) - before the elections, the JCP also promised all of them "3 × 500" and so all of them... I think they promised everything there. As a result, all this is no longer relevant today. That is why we should not have agreed to be a minister for prosperity. I understand, I want to record on the card - I was a minister. Anyone else, the most important thing is the Minister. Does it have to do with the welfare of the people, or does it have to do with the development of Latvia's competitiveness? No, absolutely nothing. Personal just... Another thing that, in the same context, is essential, which I would like to address to all the members of the JCPOA, the whole group. I should have said that, talking about education, but I will not be late now. So, Gatis Eglitis is potentially the next UK member who will be thrown out of the party, because it is absolutely clear that after this government of Kariņš there will be no prosperity in Latvia. And Gatis Eglitis will not be popular in Latvia after this post. UK Members, remember - in your party you are... on yours... throw them off like old shoes! As soon as the rating isn't as necessary, it's all... there will be thrown out. From this point of view too, Gatis Eglitis agrees with the position in question, which is, to some extent, risky. Dear people, I want to talk about prosperity. Do not talk about prosperity in a format - how we will give benefits. Benefits do not make the country rich. The country will be rich with a vision of what we will do to make the country rich. And this vision actually divides into two fronts. The main thing is... Education is the biggest challenge. Given that education is also a section of the CIP, then... and well-being will now be the BCP section, then it was in this context that the BIP had to talk about what education our children would be: whether our children would be able to go to school, whether they would be able to go without masks, whether they would be provided with everything for sport, for a healthy lifestyle, or whether there would be a free lunch, what the particular educational programme would be... and so on. And the vision of higher education, which I already told you. It wasn't all here. So it must be understood that a country that does not have a good and high-quality education system, where there is no idea how to reform the existing education system, cannot become objectively rich. Countries where education is a priority are becoming rich. This is not the case here. The other thing is about prosperity. So for prosperity, how a country can become rich. The country can become richer if we are more competitive than our neighbours in the region. To make us more competitive than our neighbours in the region, we have elementary... There's no higher mathematics here, or something else, we have... a simple question today, somewhere: we have the most expensive or cheaper electricity price in the region? The answer is that we are quite expensive, or not, the price of electricity. Consequently, we cannot compete in production. Secondly. Taxes - especially taxes on labour. Does the entrepreneur benefit from investing in Estonia or Latvia? The banking system. All the services that fall on every businessman as the last criminal. The answer is very simple. Until we protect our businessmen, not those who are only party sponsors, but their own businessmen in general, let us not create the environment in which they want to come, while there will be no prosperity. In the meantime, you pensioners will be promised that they will add you, I don't know... it will cost €200 once a lifetime. That's the average... I'm talking about the average, I'm not talking about a very rich family, I'm talking about the average family... 200 euros... It's with two three kids, I mean... that's, well, a couple of times go to the supermarket to buy to eat or pour petrol for half a month. Let us be honest. And that's it. If it's an achievement, I don't know. I don't think so. Promise, I don't know when we put it, there's a family... Oh, the UKP promised their family state allowance if. What did they promise there? How much is there - 11 euros, or how much they promised there... 200 or how many euros were promised each month. Where are they? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No country has become rich from the benefit. This is not happening anywhere in the world. The bag becomes produced, it becomes rich, it takes money, it collects taxes and not borrows. The whole of this government is built in such a way that we only borrow, but only create ever greater debt for our country. Our children, grandchildren and so on. All those in government, including Eglite, will not have to give up all these things. And... pointless job. The amount of pensions does not depend on who the Minister for Welfare is and the size of pensions, dear pensioners, is not dependent on whether the Minister for Welfare is at all. Parents of children, mothers - single and single - your child's money is not dependent on the Minister of Welfare, it depends on the Minister of Finance's favour, how much money they are giving them and how much money they have in the country at all. The Ministry of Welfare performs the function of redistribution and simply spends public funds as a bureaucratic apparatus, and everything is not there. Just a bureaucratic, unnecessary, completely releaseable apparatus, leaving some people as a department in the Ministry of Finance. That would be the right version, and it would be a bold speech like the word of a national man - that Mr Eglišs would get up on the platform and say: no, I don't want to record myself on a business card, I say, as I agree with the programme, with our vision, how we could start to cut the state machine and how we would actually have more money left for pensioners. But he doesn't do this, because selfishness is more important to this coalition - his personal interests, his personal ambitions, his personal records on the business cards, and everything - there's nothing more there. People, by the way, if you wanted to... If you want to know, as was actually the case, why Mr. Eglīss came to the post of Minister for Welfare at all, I have to go back to Sigulda for this second government, where Raivis Dzintars, Zakaitistov, appears to have been there as well. where they discuss the new government. The author of this new government is, in fact, Raivis Dzintars... with the agreement of Zakatistova. Drinking or not, I don't know, I wasn't here, but it was essential that the idea was that we offer the BCP's well-being, so that the BCP refuses to have a post as Minister for Welfare for Imants, but the BCP agreed. And that's why Gatis Eglitis is. That was the historical context in which these ministerial portfolios formed. Everything, dear people, is very simple. There's no fine making here, everything's very bad. It confirms the Cabinet of Ministers in Latvia. Thank you for listening, and think on Mondays - do you really want this political cartel from which your life does not improve. Maybe you need to change something and start trusting people who think differently, who see things differently and who would also be brave to do things differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U162	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U163	Dear colleagues, I would like to thank Minister Ramona Petraviča for her courage... I also agree with my colleague, Mr Nemiro, who called him brave ministers... for the courage of her and her sofa to fight for families, for Latvian families, for values, for children, for children's rights. And thank you for Ramona's courage to tell the truth again by returning to the story of false positive tests in nursing homes. We can only mention how much it cost the nerves and how much it cost the Minister for Internal Resources to make such statements and then definitely to receive condemnation from colleagues. I think that such a minister could be a rare one. With regard to Mr Eglišs, I have a comment. I personally suspect that this is a trap for Mr. Eglitis, because the Minister for Welfare directly... The achievements of the Minister for Welfare depend on the approval of the Minister for Finance, and we know that it is very difficult to negotiate something with Mr Reira, it is very difficult to get that approval. Knowing the wish of Mr Eglitis to replace the Minister of Finance, he should probably aim precisely at this, because with the existing Minister, Mr Eglitis is likely to have to cope with a whole series of losses. So, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. because Mr Eglišs has to realise a whole series of changes that have now been tabled from the advertising of the election of the new conservative party. So there is a little more than a year left to implement the 3 × 500 programme, as already pointed out by colleagues. The reform proposed by Mrs Muižniece with regard to child benefits, which Mrs Muižniece wrote in her proposal and then withdrew, saying that they would return sometime with this proposal... This is about a €50, €150 and €300 benefit for large families... All of this will have to be implemented in the near future, and all of this will, of course, be expected by the entire Latvian society. That is why I would like to add, of course, a little bit of opposition to Mr Valaiņa on those pensions. People who receive those big pensions and who are public concerned that they have received them EUR 200, where they are then to be put, would have listened better and left someone with the money that an old man who really does not have enough income than he had around and told him that they have too much money. Such speech often leads to the idea that a wise person in the government is able to separate people, and such an idea is likely to be implemented. If we heard that Mr Reira wanted to sort out families according to the criteria for receiving this EUR 500 - whether all families really deserve EUR 500 per child - then, believe me, Mr Valaiņš, after such speeches, the idea that people will have to be sorted will once again be clear. It is thanks from the state, it is a recognition that a particular person is in a particular position - either he has a child or he has served the state for a long time, worked and acquired the status of a ‘pensioner’. This is not linked to any support for income growth. It is the language in which the country speaks to people, and that language must not be distorted. I therefore call on you to give up any thought of such an idea - that we could separate people. You are already doing this - you are already doing this by sorting the vaccinees and the unvaccinated. That's enough. Colleagues, if we are talking about Mr Eglitis' candidacy, then I cannot, however, mention once again the treason we see. Perhaps Mr Eglitis will also be a very good minister, but the way in which this whole replacement of ministers is taking place today does not show any good signs of a healthy atmosphere in the government and the Saeima. No, because we know - and this is not the secret to Mr Kariņš himself - that these two ministers (we are talking about the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Welfare) were among the highest ratings in the government. Neither Reira, Kariņš himself, Mrs Šuplinska nor other ministers had the same high ratings as these ministers. And it's very wrong to change them just because there's a math that doesn't match. That is why I will not support Mr Eglitis' candidacy as a minister and will also call on other colleagues not to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U164	The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U165	Dear colleagues, Mr. Eglish! Unfortunately, there is a habit in Latvia to say and promise everything that just comes to mind before the elections or before the appointment, but then pretend that it has already been just such a pre-election rhetoric. Violation of promises does not honor anyone. And government ministers in particular. Improvisation and uncertainty 13. There is much more in the family and in this government today than otherwise, so there is no clarity in society about what future awaits people. That shouldn't be the case. I call on you, Mr Eglitis, to stand up as Minister for Welfare for Social Change, which will make Latvia more united and socially fairer. But for the time being, I do not see in your work plan anything that would contribute to an increase in the level of human well-being, nor do I see in any of the strategic documents you have prepared or at least in any of the documents you would have (The Sound Break.) ... the measures to be taken by the Ministry under your direction, the expected results, the officials responsible. Nor does it seem that your primary objective will be to reduce inequalities. You and all the government ministers must finally understand that poverty in Latvia is real, because Latvia is the third poorest country in the European Union with huge income inequality. This only shows that social issues in our country are not a priority, and the social policy of the government is absolutely inconsistent and unclear, or that the people in power are reluctant. I know that this is not what we want to see our country, government, ministers. Everyone wants a stable life of income and confidence for a secure future. Just live so that we do not have to deal with injustice every day. I believe that social justice should be an absolute priority for the Minister for Welfare. It's the basis for people to... foster trust in the state and its institutions. I call for all the necessary changes to be made in cooperation and in close consultation with the sector. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U166	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U167	Thank you. Dear colleagues, In general, when we listen to this debate, the question arises: what do we mean by the term "well-being"? Is it just the protection of socially vulnerable groups? Is it child protection or the protection of seniors, is it a more broad concept? I think... Talking about prosperity... it affects any person living in Latvia. Consequently, the determination of the level of welfare, to be honest, is hardly consistent with one ministry. Today it is not the Ministry of Welfare, it is the Ministry of Social Protection. Perhaps this also leads to the tasks ahead of the new minister. And they have to be divided into two parts. The first part, which Mr Gobzem also spoke about, is the allocation of money, the implementation of safeguard mechanisms. Indeed, the Ministry of Finance can and does do this calmly, because the Ministry of Welfare really only deals with redistribution. Social policy as such: it is a broader political concept and a broader mechanism. Thus, the function here too does not agree only with the Ministry of Welfare... Institutions and bodies subordinate to the Ministry of Welfare... Today, many of the functions performed by these institutions are located in municipal territories. And social services are, and will be, in large municipalities after the administrative territorial reform. So the need for this kind of... Let's say, nurses or nursing institutions... would only be under the responsibility of the Ministry of Welfare. It can be passed on calmly with funding to municipalities that are much closer to the same customers. When it comes to the State Employment Agency, it is really much closer to the Ministry of Economics, because it is the process of preparing the labour market and labour resources (including re-training). It therefore seems to me that the main task of the new minister could be to ensure that one of the biggest commitments made by the JC during the year - to reduce the number of officials by 20 percent - and that the Ministry of Welfare was initially reorganised and perhaps eliminated by the end of this period. This will show the public that the JCPOA is successfully delivering on its pre-election promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U168	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U169	Yeah, well... I think that it is clear to those who are watching much less in the coalition that this nomination is - it is a bomb. It's a bomb, but it's not clear right now who's gonna blow on it. So those who put it hope that those who hit this ball will explode, and those who took this ball have not yet lost hope that if they do the right thing, then this coalition can explode. It's just a matter of time when this ball explodes. In particular, we all remember the legendary pledges made by the JCPOA of 3 × 500. By taking on this post, the JCPOA will become responsible for fulfilling these promises. First of all, pensioners - for a minimum pension of EUR 500 - are also an inequitable minimum, because otherwise what the JTPP is currently going to be doing... with your own... that as if the promise “3 × 500” has been fulfilled, in terms of minimum wage, raising the minimum wage to 500 euros... If you do not raise the unequilibrable minimum, you do not change anything, because it will already benefit from raising this unequilibrable amount, so that people can actually have more money in their wallets. As well as pensioners. This €500 promise... That will be remembered by everyone. This means that, as the elections approach, the new Conservative will have to take some account of the fulfilment of these promises and come with appropriate initiatives. This in turn means that the holder of the wallet will need to find money for this event. There will probably be no money in the mask, and then there will be a dilemma: what to do to the new conservative party - to keep up the feeds of power or to remain faithful to their promises, at least to show that it is doing them. And then we'll see who's gonna blow up. Someone's gonna have to blow up. If we are talking about the fulfillment of the promises, then what I would like to hear from the future Minister - his promise about this: to take care of social care centres in the context of co-administration so as to be safe there. We have heard a very beautiful speech from the page, and the Minister of Education and Science has read from the page his speech, which promised the possible opening of training in the present autumn season. I asked at the beginning of the debate how it would actually be implemented, but I did not get an answer. What we have done - we have already submitted specific questions to this new minister as a road map. If the Minister responds to this, then he will have a road map how to implement this promise. In other words, it is possible to provide education to children on the spot; it is a matter to be addressed, a simple and clear question to be addressed: how can this be done without forcing them to vaccinate. What concerns many parents is that children will now be forced to vaccinate. Many are not ready to do so; they are not ready to vaccinate themselves where they may still be allowed to vaccinate their children. All this can be resolved without this vaccination, simply by addressing the issue of air quality - as it does in other countries. Considerable example is Finland, where indoor control of air quality allows... provides not only a training process; there people are peacefully attending events, sitting in restaurants, and there is no risk of infection, and there is no spread of infection. And all of this is thanks to the control of air quality. For some reason, our intelligent, determined, powerful government, which works honestly, courageously and wisely, has not yet understood it and has not been able to implement it. Mr Eglišs, then I have a question: are you prepared to implement it, are you prepared to implement it at least in social care centres? This is really a real solution - a science-based and practically justified, proven solution, of which you don't know why your government even avoid talking. This is about social care centres. Returning to the topic of your promises “3 × 500”, I have one recommendation for you. I've always had this since I was a kid, if I didn't play, then I usually felt... for those who, I felt, need help - for the weakest or those who are trying to play, and that is what is happening here - I would also like to help you. So that you can prepare, so that you are not the ones who explode. There are many things in the field of prosperity that are not organised, which are not really meaningful even for those who have worked in this area, and one where you, Mr Eglitis, will certainly have good competence... it is related to financial affairs. Financial affairs, especially when we are talking about the sustainability of the welfare budget, about the sustainability of pensions. None of the Ministry of Welfare has been able to justify the sustainability of our social budget. The fact that the people who now pay or make social security contributions are really going to get a pension after 20, 10 will get them a pension. I'll tell you where the problem is. The problem is that these estimates, which have been on the issue of budgetary sustainability, are based on false forecasts. What has usually been manipulated by the Ministry of Welfare (and has quickly come to a standstill when it is asked competent, specific questions) - with the so-called basis and with adjustments. Usually it was all like that -- assuming that the base is right, and then further calculations... with adjustments... they are adjusted to GDP, to life-long changes and similar. But if we start checking everything from the very foundations, then we see that all these assumptions have been made... All this... the sustainability of this pension budget is based on assumptions which do not correspond to reality. I started this debate with the Ministry of Welfare at the time when the Minister for Welfare was Mrs Viņķele, and I quickly entered a deadlock, unable to respond; then the Ministry of Finance was also unable to respond. Then we had the same debate with Mr Reira when he was Minister for Welfare. He was unable to respond to this, he was unable to provide evidence that this pension, let us say in a simplified way, would be sustainable, this pension budget created. Despite the fact that there is now a provision that is objectively necessary. In view of demographic trends, taking into account labour trends, productivity, everything that is currently happening and putting it all together, it would be very important to see the justification for a sustainable social budget. And this is your shortcut with which you can start now, with which you can cut out your hands for those who will try to blow you up. Start a debate on this. Whoever solves this, who will be able to put this budget right, I think will get good dividends. And for you it will also be a chance to show how you try to take care of your promises, because they are “3 × 500”... Many people will not forget them. You have forgotten to fight corruption, but those “3 × 500” you... It will not be forgotten to you. And that's what I would ask you to think about. And then you'll have the chance that they won't be you who explode, because you'll need to explode, because at some point you'll understand that you're the next antilop, which these old political crocodiles are already digesting, and this is the decoy that's thrown to get you to their stomachs -- piece by piece... Explosion of pieces will make it easier to digest you. What we are going to do for our part is we will once again help you to be clear about these issues, because these issues are really real, topical, especially if you want to ensure that people are motivated and interested in paying these social security contributions, especially in a situation where they are simply made illogical. And, of course, the issue that needs to be resolved with regard to the minimum level of social contributions is that we need to think about the regulation of the proportion of self-employed workers who do not work full-time objectively and for whom this income is less objective. Let us say, there are many who study and work in parallel, young mothers in families who simply earn and whose income is to be reduced by a hundred euros a month. And if they almost will have to pay everything just in taxes, then they lose meaning to do it legally, legally. A lot of absurd things. July 1 is coming... And it is once again one of the things I see as one of the first challenges - small, small, small - that should be addressed by this Minister for Welfare. And, of course, the greatest of all - these are your promises of "3 × 500" and the sustainability of the social budget. Prove that thanks to your rule, it will not be that people will remain without pensions, without what they... without that which is due to them, that they have paid these taxes in good faith. If you can't prove it, you can't justify it, then... It is strange to ask people to pay them all for their part. So that this will really be an interesting story, let's follow. Where we can, let's help. You will be able to prove how honest you are, how courageous you are and how wise you are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U170	The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U171	Good evening, colleagues! Good evening, honourable chair of the sitting! I would like to say thank you last night, this time, to one person, particularly Ramona Petraviča, who is still a minister until now, and only this vote will determine her fate in this post. Gatim Suggest... Maybe... It may be that he has already learned this, but I can say from my experience (from 2009) that the first thing I learned from dealing with social matters in my municipality, where I was elected, was terminology. I mean, there are two terms... The term "social assistance" had to be distinguished from the term "social services". And if you can keep these two terms in mind and use them in the right place and at the right time, then 30 percent of your skills have already been mastered. As regards the welfare sector and the progress made by the Minister for Welfare in this difficult position, I would like to remind my fellow Members that, even before Ramona, this ministry was supervised by a... Now... Prime Minister-led party. I had to remind my colleagues from the New Unity in several negotiations that, once again, refusing funding for Ramona, maybe it should be a bit of a suspicion that perhaps, at least during your inaction or during the ministry's administration, correction of errors... Well, at least it should be like asking and being some kind of conscience... However, any funding will be made available. Perhaps they heard something; perhaps something went on. One very typical case appeared in memory, which was the standard of the previous coalition. This is about these EUR 500 for children and EUR 200 for pensioners. Ramona's statement was that both types of benefit should be viewed at the same time, together with children and pensioners, so that this money could be made available to people and families at a time when it is really necessary. The biggest argumentator why we don't need this pensioner's pay, as it were to be driven together, was one... Well, I don't know what to call you... shadow minister - Prime Minister Imants Krādnieks, who tried to speak and talk about how much he defends children and how much he is interested in older people, let's say, domestic conditions and so on. And only when we had to negotiate, or almost threaten it, or otherwise, even with the votes of the opposition, will we give this 200 euros to pensioners as well, and when we understood this deadlock that it would still be necessary to listen to this request from Ramona, things went faster. The subsequent increase in the number of beneficiaries of the Orders did not really bother us because we had achieved our main goal of helping a person at this difficult moment, even with these 200 euros. As one of the most acute problems, I think... I hope that Gatis, as a result of being brought closer to the IT technology area, will be able to solve this ever-old lack of money in the Ministry of Welfare, where the local IT system, which calculates the amount of benefits and helps workers count both these costs and changes, and so on, is still in operation and maintained with great penalties. Now... This system is the next model behind an aritmometer if someone knows what it was. And there are almost no specialists in Latvia who know how to serve this system at all. It is older than some of the good Members sitting here in the Saeima, perhaps. There you go. I hope that funding will be found in the near future for this system and will be replaced, because very much of the accusations that Ramona received were that it was not possible to aim at paying the benefits to those people who really needed them. And she got accusations about 200 euros being received by those who have pensions well over a thousand and even more. Yes, there were different suggestions for differentiation, different suggestions... and everything else, but faced with purely technical nuances that to differentiate these payments... it could pull up until September, October, because most of these data should be hand-made. So I hope that the new minister will be able to get into and replace this system with a modern one, and this will help to get public funding really to a person quickly, qualitatively and to achieve the objectives that need to be achieved. There are a lot of things that have moved from the Ministry of Welfare right now. And it's a pity to see that here... speaker... The next speaker who has applied... very unsold and unfairly tried to humiliate ministers in various ways within their commission. It's not acceptable to me because... Whatever the way people are treated... Being a Member and in office, there must, however, be a certain humanity and a certain prickness towards a woman, against a mother in the end. These accusations that had to be heard by Ramon (sometimes behind the backstage) did not prove good for those people who allowed him to be offended personally. Unfortunately, I have to say that, the next speaker refused to debate, and I hope that... I don't know, maybe the conscience came in. In any case, good luck at Gatim! I do not hope that now it will be different from the previous three ministers. Good luck! Good luck in doing what you need! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U172	Name to Member Artus Neminis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U173	Yeah... Well, if you think so loud about me, I have a duty to talk. Let's be honest, open your eyes! I do not know how much more to open it up and who has the courage to say that Ramona Petraviča has been the worst minister in Latvia's history. That is a fact, in my opinion. SATISFY, you yourself wrote this series of violations, you signed these... Members' signatures were also collected for asking for a commission for Petraviča. I think this is already a second or third request, and I think it is a matter of honour. It's like, in all this... At the moment of the change of ministers, or at the time of Ramona as well... finally left his post. Ramon for two years... Ramona Petraviča also sat on her Member's chair for two years as a minister, it seemed that everything was completely acceptable. Ramona Petraviča, in my opinion, is responsible for the loss of life for very many people right now when... There is the opinion of the State Audit Office on what has happened in these homes, in old people's homes, and there can't really hide behind it - behind some kind of tests, testes... for kovidtesters - behind the fact that they've been alone there or there. In any case, there is more than a hundred places in the cemetery. More than a hundred! And it is the most full responsibility and sphere of the Ministry of Welfare. And Ramona Petraviča has a political responsibility. The Prime Minister stands this opinion of the State Audit Office on the table, which... he also asked the State Audit Office himself... this opinion, where the State Audit Office has found a number of violations in these special groups. And if I hadn't been to this sitting today, which has already drawn into this whole long speech, then it would be - yes or yes next week! - asking for a commission, Ramona Petraviča, and I would have voted in favour. I could list one more thing here. Ministry of Welfare and Minister for Welfare... I will say this: the Minister for Welfare, in my opinion, has done his job very badly, without knowing, without knowing at all, the subject in which she is located. The Human Rights and Public Affairs Commission has very often carried out work not done by the Ministry of Welfare. Here was mentioned: 500 euro - for children, 200 euro - for pensioners. And then one day... In the commission, we realized that there were “right” children and“ wrong” children. And the Ministry of Welfare had developed an opinion... or - the Minister... Well, the Minister less frequently visited our commission, because a very busy schedule for the Minister is... that it turns out those kids who live in these... Let's say in the conversation language, in the children's houses... that they do not have EUR 500. Then we wrote to Mr. Kariņš a letter from the Commission, asked him to correct this, and thank God, we corrected it and we did it. I have a request to Mrs Golubeva... and congratulations, too, to Mrs Golubeva on the post of Minister for the Interior... not to stay on two chairs and be ministers, not ministers and Members, as it was with Ramon Petravič, for example. Well, that's... Well, densely said... In fact, there is a great deal of pain and shame that on 23 January 2019 I gave that green light and their good names to these ministers. Well, that's it. In any case, you are standing and falling about this Minister and the Minister for the Interior, Mr Možvillo, and you are talking about how well ministers have been, but on the other hand, you may ask yourself... Mr. Girgens himself, the oldest, I thought... that in these two years... to how many parties he has gone and asked, so to say that he would like to work there, either that would be New Unity, or that would be a National Unity. He is not particularly proud of the KPV LV fraction, as you try to make people obvious; that is not the case. But it's your inner kitchen, and the clothes can be washed and can't be washed, I choose not to wash in this case. Ramona Petraviča, meet at the Saeima! Goodbye. I call for the support of Gati Eglīte. I hope that there will be very good cooperation with the Gati Eglīte Commission as well. I think this is a new beginning. Thank you. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U174	Dear colleagues, The debate will continue after the break. Interruption - 15 minutes, as the Bureau has decided after a very productive debate today. Only registration of the presence of Members. It's over. So it's a break until 18.45. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U175	Dear Members and honourable Members, We shall continue to discuss the agenda of the first extraordinary sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 3 June 2021. On the agenda - draft decision “On expressing confidence to the Minister for Welfare Gatis Eglitis”. We are continuing the debate on this draft decision. The name of Member Eric Pucen. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U176	Good evening, honourable colleagues! We see the fourth question today... a compact government... Very fast... Good luck, and everything goes ahead. That is very good and welcome. But... Today, by collecting and watching the work of Ramona Petraviča, there is now a rather long list of readings, and a very great joy that is... Well, state... many works have been done. And I remember one of these brightest cases... Well, from that secret coalition meeting, cooperation meetings... I remember that we said that there would be this support for the pensioners - EUR 200. There were eyes already: madness, so much money, millions will go there! Well, it may already be that that money was already for something else, something that might have already marked airBaltic again or ports that no longer matter, perhaps for a railway that doesn't matter. We did it. We did it. Maybe the previous speaker is in another Saeima, he has not seen those works, and these insults... Well, let him be lucky, that man! But about Gati... Well, Gatis and... Gatis is like... almost like Kaspars Gerhard, maybe in all ministries he can work. Then he wanted to be a parliamentary... He didn't get anything. Well, then he's already... All right, no, let's go! Then he will be the Minister of Finance himself. Neither did it. After all, he, yes, now rejects it, I don't know the stone-confects to judge him himself,--he will be the Minister for Welfare. Well, we'll see how he's going to do those job duties, but I think he'll be denied it, so to speak, poisoned candy because of the party program... Let us see how easy it is for him to implement a minimum pension of EUR 200. Well, let's see how these promises... how they're going to do, but, as Ivars Zarins says, let's help. Let's always help you, Gatty, for you. Good proposals must be supported. I hope that it will be successful; you will indeed fulfil the promises made to the voters when you are in office. I foresee that this government, this terminator 2 government, will not be easily confused. We can see that now... 55 votes, 55, 56. Now jump, well... It's very hard to go, it's not gonna be a compact or it's a coherent government. Let us now see what our President will say again, what new names will then come out. We'll see. Hopefully we can, let's work, and we'll be fine. So that's... I will, of course, not support Gatis, because I see that Gatis might have been... Better Minister for Finance or Parliamentary Secretary, but not for prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U177	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U178	Very short. One recommendation and one remark. Recommendation for the Minister's candidate - really seriously think about the reorganisation of the Ministry of Welfare, perhaps by setting up a social protection office that would be... Just as KNAB... the Prime Minister's direct oversight. And then this future minister could perhaps also lead it - regardless of 14. The outcome of elections of the Saeima. And one note. I think colleagues would be good to use in the debate the ancient Roman principle aut bene, aut nihil, which sounds in Latvian: the ones who are away - either good or nothing. I think it would be more ethically correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U179	I closed the debate. Name to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U180	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Members and honourable Members, Colleagues Ministers! First of all, thank you all for the debate. As a coalition and as a government, we have a very serious source of work ahead of us. Firstly, and this is very important, we must continue to get the country out of this Covid-19 pandemic crisis. Continued vaccination is a fundamental principle. Once again, I can invite every Latvian citizen to apply for this free service. It will protect itself from serious illness and hospitalization and from death. So I'm calling for every one to apply. In this way, we can protect not only ourselves individually, but our country, our country's economy as a whole. The second challenge for us is, of course, economic development. We need to look to the future, we cannot look at the sole point of the pandemic today, we need to look ahead: how we will ensure the sustainable development of our country's economy, how we can structurally change and strengthen our economy and achieve both our neighbours and Europe's average prosperity. And that is, of course, with a great deal of emphasis, a serious emphasis on the creation of new, competitive, exportable businesses. This is the so-called smart reindustrialisation, and that is what will help to build overall prosperity, which would mean more money in budget revenue, where... we could help better those who need this help. We will, of course, remain important in all areas. All the sectors of the economy that are working - these are undoubtedly important to us. But in order for us to pull up, we need this smart reindustrialisation, and these are just exporting companies. I am convinced that we will also be able to do so together. I therefore call for support for the candidate for the position of Minister for Welfare, thus fully restoring the composition of the government as a whole. Thank you all for your support so far. I call on you to support the candidate for the position of Minister for Welfare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2264-U181	Thank you. Please call me! We will be voting on the draft decision "On Expression of Trust to the Minister for Welfare Gatis Eglilis"! Please vote mode! For - 56, for - 34, for - 1. Decision adopted. Congratulations to the elected welfare minister Gati Eglīte! We wish you good works for Latvia! Colleagues, we have therefore dealt with all the items on the agenda of the first extraordinary meeting of 3 June. Thank you to the Prime Minister for his participation in this sitting of the Saeima. Before we register, I would like to inform you that 15 minutes after this sitting, namely 19.10 a.m., the Saeima Bureau has convened the third remote extraordinary sitting of 3 June. So it will start at 19.10. Only registration of participants. It's been a success. I closed my first remote sitting on June 3. Meeting in 15 minutes - at 19.10! Thank you.
