ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2194-U1	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! The first remote emergency sitting started on 18 February 2021. On the agenda - statements by the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection” be referred to the Committee for Budget and Financial (Tax) establishing that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Edgars Tavars. Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2194-U2	Dear President, Dear colleagues, The Union of Greens and Farmers, logically, supports this draft law promoted by the Cabinet of Ministers, which provides support for families with children. We believe that such a decision should have been made a few weeks ago. Accordingly, after a longer delay... The opposition of the Saeima, too... we have already tabled a proposal last week on what is needed for families with children most at this time. It was not acceptable to have these expressions from our various colleagues for us to move... Then a statement is made that no aid, however, is there, that we will not lead... This is a very shocking thing for society. If we come out at this time of the Covideum (any - position, opposition), we must do everything we can to make these decisions too. And the attempt to carry this log to someone - who was the first to come up with the number "500 euros" or who came up with a proposal that direct support for families with children... In fact, there is also a need for direct support for any Latvian citizen affected by the pandemic and its economic impact. Let us not deny that there are thousands of such families throughout the country, but this first step - special support for families with children - is to be supported. Accordingly, for the next sitting scheduled for this, we will withdraw our proposal if we vote in favour of this proposal by the Cabinet. I really call on my fellow Members: we support this, we do not look at who was the first - whether it was one coalition party, another coalition party or technically the first to put forward this proposal in Parliament - and that has no meaning at all. We're not gonna get any bonuses from that. We can all lose if something goes wrong with this, then society does not separate - the position, the opposition, the government, the Saeima. There may be major, major problems, and people will lose their faith in this country even more than has been the case so far. Therefore, colleagues, on behalf of the whole opposition, I think I can say with confidence that we are in favour of this proposal - a much-needed proposal for every Latvian family, especially during this pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2194-U3	One Member has spoken in favour and a vote has been requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 Law on the Proliferation of Infectious Effects”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Members have not applied in the debate. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The second item on our agenda is the examination of draft decisions. Draft decision “On Cabinet of Ministers Order of 11 February 2021 No. Orders Nos 82 and 16 February 2021 94 amending Order of 6 November 2020 No. 655 ‘Proclaiming an emergency’. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2194-U4	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! In its meeting of 17 February 2021, the Commission of Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined current amendments of the Cabinet of Ministers in the declared emergency situation. In general, I would like to say that there is no major change, but I would like to mention some of the most important things. First of all, it is stipulated that officials of the institution of the Ministry of the Interior system with a special service degree and a candidate for their physical fitness test may be performed indoors, including through dressing rooms, if there are not more than five persons in the room (excluding persons accepting the said examination) and epidemiological safety requirements are provided. The amendments to the order also stipulate that institutions of long-term social care and social rehabilitation are required to ensure the recording of Covid–19 tests according to the number of tests received and used, as well as to list positive tests separately. It is further established that starting from 15 February, to impose obligations on persons when crossing the territory of the Republic of Latvia in transit, to do so within 12 hours from submission of the declaration form to the person monitoring system on the Covidpass.lv website. There are some exceptions that apply to the employees of the transport service provider - the crew members of the freight or technical services must cross the territory of the Republic of Latvia within 72 hours. The exception is also passengers of international passenger transport, who must cross the territory of the Republic of Latvia in transit within 48 hours. The exception is also that of aircraft passengers who cross the territory of the Republic of Latvia in transit without leaving the controlled area of the aerodrome and staying there for a maximum period of 24 hours, if they can present confirmation of the transit flight. The exception also applies to ship and aeroplane crew members, as well as seafarers who have to enter or return from their jobs on board. There is no hourly limit for such persons. The amendments also complement the practical parts of educational programmes that are possible on-the-spot, taking into account the relevant epidemiological safety requirements. In addition to the previous ones, these are study programs - Radiography... The second year of study... radiologist assistant and biomedical laboratory, as well as the third year of study... vocational education program “Students” with an assistant to the qualification sister... Finally, there is also an obligation to exchange data between the Disease Prevention and Control Centre and the State Revenue Service. In the following, the State Revenue Service provides information to the Disease Prevention and Control Centre about the employment of the person who is ill with the community. In the Commission, having heard representatives of the ministries, institutions, Infectologists and experts, the changes introduced by the government in the orders were considered justified, proportionate and necessary in the situation. I therefore call for support for the draft decision drawn up by the Commission. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2194-U5	Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! Vote “On Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 11 February 2021 No. Orders Nos 82 and 16 February 2021 94 amending Order of 6 November 2020 No. 655 “Advertising the Emergency”! Please, let's vote! For -69, against -no, refrain -17. Consequently, the draft decision was adopted. Dear colleagues, We have reviewed the agenda for the first remote emergency session on 18 February. Registration of Members' presence. This has happened. In 15 minutes we will continue with the second remote emergency sitting on 18 February.
