ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U1	Dear colleagues, On 14 October 2021, the Saeima opened its second remote emergency session. On the agenda for the examination of draft decisions. Draft decision on the announcement of an emergency. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U2	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! As you know, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption at its meeting of 12 October 2021 examined the Cabinet of Ministers Order of 9 October 2021. 720 Promulgating an emergency. I will not refer to everything and every detail of this particular order – it would take a lot of time – but I will try to tell you briefly about the most important things in the next 10 minutes. The emergency has therefore been declared for a period of three months, i.e. from 11 October this year to 11 January 2022, with the aim of halting the rapid spread of Covid-19 infection, the excessive health sector and reducing avoidable mortality, while ensuring the continuity of important public functions and services. So the most important things are in this order. For the duration of the emergency, both vaccinated and unvaccinated persons will need to use facial masks correctly indoors. A properly used facial mask means that the facial mask covers both the nose and the mouth when the mask is used. Go on. Given that the education process is a government and public priority, students will continue to attend school, but all indoors will have to wear properly imposed masks, except, of course, pre-school. Schools will continue to be routine testing once a week. Execution of interest education in person during an emergency will not occur to unvaccinated persons, except within the same class or group and individually. There will be no restrictions on those who have been vaccinated or have been overloaded in education. So those who have been vaccinated will be able to work in the education of interest. Next, briefly describing the following... the most important things. All employees in public administration and municipalities will have to work remotely, but if their duties do not fully allow this, they will only be able to work on the spot with a vaccination or flaking certificate and, in some cases, with a negative test. ( I'm going to call all these conditions straight away when I can... with negative test.) Consequently, the order provides that the obligation of an employee or official should commence... the start of vaccination within a maximum of seven days if the employer has determined that the duty is only to be carried out by means of a vaccination or congestion certificate. In this sense (and I will focus a little after a few sentences on the fact that the employer has the right to make compulsory the groups to be vaccinated, which can only be allowed to carry out their duties by means of vaccination or congestion certificates. But coming back to this condition. So, if the employer has determined that the work obligations are to be carried out only by means of a vaccination or flaking certificate, then in the version that we saw, the worker will have to start vaccination within seven days, now, as far as I understand, the latest is specified, that within 10 days, but in any case, we will be looking at these clarifications later. The certificate will have to be obtained by 15 November of this year. Private sector workers are also obliged to vaccinate, and it is strongly recommended that they also carry out remote work as an essential safety measure in the private sector, wherever the specific nature of the work permits it. Thus, not only the public but also the private sector go as far away as possible. Like by the way, following and setting an example, the Saeima has now done this in the light of this exceptional situation as part of the public sector. Hence, the Saeima is currently following this order. Let's go. In exceptional circumstances, the criteria for the employer to request a vaccination certificate or a congestion certificate for the performance of his duties shall be laid down. These criteria are: where an employee or official is in direct contact with clients during the performance of his duties or duties, comes in physical or prolonged physical contact or is less than two metres from the client or several staff members (official) carry out duties in a long-term interaction, are in physical contact or are close to two metres for a long period of time, so that certificates may be required in such a case. Another criterion. If an employee/official has an increased chance of becoming infected by direct contact and contact with a large number of persons with an unknown health status, the employer may also request a certificate in this case and... if the duties of the employee's/official's post are critical to the public, as well as to ensure continuity of business activities of the enterprise or institution. Go on. The order provides that if the employee or official has not begun or completed vaccination within the prescribed period, that is to say, by 15 November of this year, the employer shall suspend the employee or official from carrying out his or her duties or duties. Here I consider it necessary to stick a little to terminology – dismissal or dismissal and dismissal. We see very imprecise and embarrassing explanations that suspension is the same as release. No, quitting is not a release from work. A staff member retains his status as an employee, simply leaving it means that the staff member in question is not allowed to carry out his specific duties until he has obtained his certificate or, as I will call it right away, will have specified transitional periods during which he will be able to work with a negative test. So, again. Employees are not exempted from work, the employer will not be able to do so... but it will be possible to refrain from carrying out the duties without retaining the salary. Go on. In terms of transition periods. Therefore, the transitional period is such that as from 13 October 2021, workers (officials) who require a vaccination or congestion certificate for the performance of their duties may carry out their duties until 19 October this year by means of a Covid-19 test certificate or a negative test organised by an employer that is not older than 72 hours. On the other hand, between 20 October 2021 and 15 November 2021, a test certificate, i.e. a test certificate, may be used for this transitional period by those who have started vaccination. ( I will mention immediately those who have already begun vaccination.) The Order provides that employees (officials) employed in sectors of critical importance to society – those of educational institutions, medical persons, workers of safety and rescue services and workers of prisons – and who have started vaccination... Thus, if the workers in these sectors have started vaccination, their tests will be paid by the end of the transitional period from State resources. All other tests shall, in turn, be paid by the employee or official if they have not specifically agreed that the tests are to be paid by the employer. In other words, if an employer wants to pay these tests to an employee, he can do so safely. Let's go. In the field of culture, as you know, epidemiological safety requirements are mainly meant to work in the so-called green, safe, regime, but with stricter requirements – such as facial masks, distance, fewer people and others. The new conditions will enter into force on 19 October because a transitional period has been set before 18 October, and this is linked to the measures announced in advance on which tickets have already been sold. Go on. From October 11, unvaccinated people will only have access to the most important shops, i.e. grocery stores, pharmacy, optics shops, animal feed, press trade, hygiene, telecommunications shops and service stations. People with a vaccination or congestion certificate will also be allowed to visit other places of sale where control of the visitors is to be ensured. In order to reduce so-called leisure time in supermarkets, it is planned to limit their activities on holidays... for all those who are limited, i.e. you already know that there are currently restrictions on the functioning of supermarkets on holiday. In public catering, however, the possibility for people with a valid vaccination or flaking certificate to have a meal on hand with working time restrictions is maintained until 21.00. The meal will be given to both vaccinated and unvaccinated people. In the field of sport, just as in the field of culture, the green or secure regime with stricter requirements – facial masks, distance, fewer people and other requirements – is generally envisaged. In the near future, as in the previous emergency, the order provides for different working hours to be fixed by the various authorities involved in crisis management for their officials, overtime to be fixed and payment for these overtime and also for cooperation between institutions. In the Commission, having heard representatives of the ministries, institutions, experts, including a representative of the Ombudsman’s Office, the extraordinary situation declared by the Government and the restrictions set out therein were found to be justified, proportionate and necessary in the particular situation. I therefore call for support for the draft decision drawn up by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U3	Thank you, Mr Ranzan, for your report. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U4	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, Looking at this issue, Mr Rancán rightly said that at the very beginning the aim is to reduce hospital congestion, reduce the spread of the disease. Colleagues, our government is very careful about this decision, has taken a whole month in the summer so that it can be prepared as well as possible. I, my fellow Members, will remind you... And I do not agree with the head of commission that the experts have supported this. Experts have made it very clear... medical experts have made it very clear that they are separated from this draft decision, that they do not agree with the choice of such a model. More than that, he stopped cooperating temporarily with the government. Colleagues, that is the attitude of experts towards this draft decision. Even more – for several weeks it was seen that professionals of medical organizations working with this disease in everyday life signal, experts signal to the government. In the public space there are countless interviews about the fact that... Informs us that the problem is huge and if we do not act quickly, the consequences will be dramatic. Colleagues, in my view, this proposed decision is a step in some way, but in no way (also known by inectologists) – in no way! – it does not reduce the risks initially mentioned by the rapporteur: reduce hospital congestion or reduce the spread of the disease. Colleagues! Now, after the presentations that have been at the disposal of our fellow Members, it is clear that, when we take this decision, we need to be aware that in the near future, they will be two-three thousand cooperative patients a day. Our hospitals will be overloaded, we'll have to make known some war hospitals, and we'll need to know what else... Colleagues! In my opinion, this is one of the most irresponsible actions on the part of the government during this term – primarily inaction and the draft decision proposed by the Saeima. Not to mention those contradictions – I think there are many colleagues here who will speak after me and point to various contradictions in this draft decision – the most important thing is that the draft decision does not in any way improve the situation we are in today. The government, by proposing this draft decision, a priori says that it allows people to die. In essence, people die because of this disease simply because the government refuses to make decisions that would restrict it in some way and that would be decisions based on expert opinions. The expert that the government itself has attracted. In this case, a number of mathematical calculations are available here. Colleagues! The hospitals will hang in the next few months. This decision does not solve anything, absolutely nothing. People with common diseases will find themselves in a very difficult situation, regardless of whether they are vaccinated or not. Colleagues! People who get to the hospital with the Covid-19... We will certainly be in a situation where we will have to think about who to put on the oxygen apparatus that we do not have, just because the government has brought such a very poorly prepared document to the Saeima, where every expert, every person involved in this process on the part of the healthcare system, is clearly aware of the fact that the document is weak. It's weak and it's... We can accept it, but it is far too little – too little! – to have a positive impact on this situation in some way. I think this is unacceptable and this is one of the biggest mistakes of the government: to propose such a decision today. No budget, no previous decision has been such a mistake in so much known circumstances as this decision, colleagues. The consequences of this decision will be measurable in human lives. We already have a parliamentary committee of inquiry about this time, we have enough information we have received. And with all this information file we are forced to work with such a poorly prepared decision today. Colleagues! This is the greatest mistake of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U5	The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U6	Dear colleagues, I very much hope that you will be aware of what an error you will make as soon as possible by confirming this order of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 720. With this order, you will discriminate against entrepreneurs who are currently normally unable to work. At the same time, Lidl... Lidl has a whole mass of people that could be safely limited, but no, it is better to limit Latvian entrepreneurs and leave them without means of living, unable to communicate with them and inform them when any means of support will be available to them. Let us also talk about the vaccination process. It is now written that workers should be vaccinated by 15 November. But what is the reality? In the same city of Jēkabpils, if we try to find out when we can go to vaccination, then the nearest time is only November, but in November, if we hit the first button, it will take time to the second, and then it will certainly pass. The only chance I learned is to go to Ogri now, if you can get vaccinated in Ogri. But then there is the question that this vaccination office is dealing with, where we already have several hundred thousand euros, and which is unable to provide the Cabinet with information about the situation and whether it will be possible to vaccinate as many people as possible if this order comes into force. But it is even more cynical to treat the same fire-fighters who were at the Saeima building today. As one, both vaccinated and unvaccinated, everyone defended each other because this is a silly decision that has been sent to us today by the Cabinet of Ministers for approval. Now the firemen... the lack of more than 110 firemen. And you think there will be more, young people who will be ready to work and support their family for EUR 600? Well, be realistic! Do you think that immediately the police will come, who will be ready to work and defend Latvia? I don't think so. It is therefore not a matter of vaccination or non-vaccination, but we are talking about the fact that on 8 October the Cabinet of Ministers sitting was chaotic, unprepared and that this order was prepared with many legal and illogical seals. I am still ashamed that our Minister of the Interior is unable to speak any words and defend his employees in the field of the Ministry of the Interior, who have the main task of defending Latvia and of taking care of every one of our citizens who will have some sort of grief. Who will protect us? And most importantly, leave the nation without income, stop from work – this is the highest cynicism that you, Members, can do today. There is currently chaos in Latvia. I therefore call for a balanced decision to be taken and for this order not to be supported. Every staff member must join his/her colleague – whether you have been vaccinated or not. It is our duty to defend everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U7	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U8	Dear colleagues, Let me start by saying that I have been vaccinated myself at the first chance. I have consistently called for people to be vaccinated and I have never called for people not to be vaccinated. I will even say more – for some coalition colleagues I even offered help inviting my constituents to vaccinate. I wouldn't name words, but there was no response. The government opted for expensive campaigns – “Wait summer” and so on. Many of my closest people have also been vaccinated, but not all of them. Among my loved ones, there are few who refuse vaccination in principle. We have had a number of negotiations on this, some rather sharp. I have now drawn two important conclusions. First. It is very difficult – to convince people. I have, for the most part, failed on this point. And the second conclusion. Colleagues! Over these years, over this and a half years, I have seen clearly that neither the position of the government nor the Saeima was interested or interested in why many people do not want to vaccinate. The government has never seriously tried to understand this. It rather thinks that a large part of the population... It is easier for the government to believe that a large part of the population is stupid and limited. So today – what you sowed, you'll reap it. Those who cannot drive with conviction, those who are unable to persuade and carry, choose to force. This is, in principle, all that characterises Order No. 720. With this order, the government has capitalised. By this order, the government says that it has failed to convince people to vaccinate in sufficient numbers to prevent a crisis in hospitals. And now the government chooses the forced path. All of this is, of course, a people's fault. Dear colleagues, Even in a crisis situation, the government was unable to act effectively, operationally or competently. The government was forced to act, at least to make some decisions in the hospital situation, more precisely, overcrowding hospitals... and very fast. But the decisions made by the government, this order No. 720 are unlikely to prevent apocalypse in hospitals. Consequently, Order No. 720 achieves the main objective. Even government-paid experts who have worked with the government and are now refusing to work with it point to this. In a crisis situation, half of the government was not even on the ground. They were on duty, on vacation. rhetorical question – why has the Prime Minister signed all those missions and holidays? Did the Prime Minister not know that there was a crisis? This reflects the Prime Minister's assessment to his ministers – that the Prime Minister himself thinks that half of the Cabinet of Ministers rather interferes with making decisions. And then, trying to make them decisions, it turned out that nothing was ready. There are no scenarios, even the paperwork is not ready. What did we do all this time, all these months, all those crisis management groups and councils? President, I asked you to combine the discussion time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U9	Your times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U10	Thank you. So, what did all those expert groups do? No algorithms, not ready. All last weeks, the government tried to make decisions several times, but it could not start working even in the morning, only in afternoon times – at 15.00 or 17.00. That's what a slider student does, who has not done his homework and then tries to postpone it at any cost. And then the government adopted something on Friday – this order No. 720. The quality of this order is that only a few days later, on Tuesday this week, the Government amended several of that order. 720 to correct the inaccuracy, because on Monday several authorities told the government that they did not know how to do all that the government has accepted. Now there are some examples. The government says that employers can stop employees, even dismiss them. The Labour Inspectorate says that they must not be dismissed, that the redundant workers will be judged and won. Public transport. The government says that over 50 percent of public transport must not be burdened. But who will do it? How? Will the driver count the passengers at each stop? Every bus will be put in a cop? Then also the obligation to open hatches and windows for ventilation. So in November and December. Public catering? All right, it is clear that only the vaccinees are vaccinated. And even if only vaccinated, the government requires that there be at least three metres between tables, if this is not Riga airport, because Riga airport may have two metres between tables. Colleagues! Look at paragraph 2 of the order. Who is responsible for all this? The government is not even able to appoint a clear person responsible for all this extraordinary situation. It says that the health minister and the crisis management board are at the same time responsible. A healthy board chaired by the Prime Minister. If the government is not even able to appoint one particular and clear person responsible, then what do you... That's what you say? Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to vote against Order No. 720 because, first of all, it does not achieve the objective. Secondly, it uses highly dubious methods. And, colleagues, even questionable methods cannot be used by the government competent. This government is not able to convince, it chooses to force, but even to force the competent government to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U11	We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U12	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, The announcement of the emergency situation and the promotion of the mandatory vaccination requirement under its cover is a mistake of the current government. It will make a large part of Latvian society choose between family security or opt out of their free choice. Each policy adopted by the government must be interpreted in the context of legal equality and, in difficult cases, discrimination and proportionality. I will therefore explain why this decision does not fulfil any of these criteria. In the context of legal equality, the requirement for compulsory vaccination and, on that basis, the restriction of access to services and employment are not legally equivalent. It should be noted that, since the vaccination process is irreversible, i.e. it does not create a free opportunity to abandon it in the future, i.e. as it is from religious beliefs, skin colour and so on, restricting the rights on the basis of it is as discriminatory as against a person of another religion. Knowing that coalition politicians have difficulty visualising social suffering, let me give an illustrative example from a citizen's letter. The mother and father of three children must choose between being exposed to a drug whose effectiveness and side effects they are worried about, or (I quote): “How am I going to make bread to provide a three-year-old daughter and two sons?” From several dozen letters received... the whole family is being paralyzed because both parents have not been vaccinated. In addition to this, people working in public administration and municipalities are required to work remotely during an emergency situation. In the private sector it is recommended to work remotely. The minimum vaccination requirements in these cases do not improve epidemiological safety, from which it can be concluded that such an approach is not only legally unequal but also unjustified. In the context of proportionality, even in an exceptional situation, state policies must be as restrictive and burdensome as possible, i.e. proportionate. The limitation of rights on the basis of health status does not clearly do so because, above all, there are other non-discriminatory and, in the opinion of the government, sufficiently effective mechanisms for combating the pandemic, such as two-metre distance and indoor masking. The government must use such mechanisms in addition to financial and social support for the most severely affected groups. And, in practice, the effect of the minimum vaccination requirement is, first of all, the opposite, it creates an initiative to circumvent the law, prevents access to support and restricts legal freedoms. Secondly, public interests over individual freedoms take precedence. Clarifying – interests of the vaccinated part of society over the individual freedoms of others. It is not possible to take care of the health of Latvian citizens by taking away their livelihoods. Retirement, if it were not called a release, also leaves people without a living, without a living and without the possibility of receiving unemployment benefits. And suspension can't be eternal, it can be for three months. What happens after three months? Release. Looking at data from both Latvia and other countries, it can be concluded that such an approach does not guarantee an exit from the pandemic. And I can absolutely agree with what doctors have said: that is what the government's actions are considered to be negligent and criminal. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U13	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U14	Dear colleagues, This order, and all that follows from that order, could soon be declared unconstitutional. Why? Because there is a fundamental mistake in all of this. We will look at the basis at the beginning, and then I will say more about the details. If we get to know Professor Ringolds Baloža's study of the state of emergency and exceptional circumstances, we can conclude that the way in which the Saeima is currently building structures regarding the control of legislators, parliamentary control over the work of the Cabinet of Ministers is not enough. We see that there are no exceptional situations in the Constitution, we have an exceptional situation, we have Article 62, which states: “If the country is threatened by an external enemy or if there is an internal unrest in the country or part of it that threatens the existing state equipment, the Cabinet of Ministers shall have the right to declare an exceptional situation by notifying the Saeima presidency within 24 hours, which must immediately bring such a decision before the Saeima.” It has been created that such restrictions could, in your opinion, be based on Article 116 of the Satversme, but we see that Article 116 of the Satversme also does not provide for restrictions which have been incorporated into this Order. At no time have the fathers of the Constitution, who have formed the main set of norms of our country, imagined that rights could be restricted on the basis of any other features. At no time – this situation, in which the legislator would have tried to fight the virus with the government or with any other misfortune – had no idea that it could be possible to escape by sorting people, because in fact, if it is so necessary to limit contacts, close various entertainment sites and shopping centers, then it should be done by everyone, and you would have to pay compensation according to the rules of idleness, but in this way, you do not fight with the virus by sorting people, you fight with people. What is more, we are talking about dismissal rules. This is, of course, the worst that this government has proposed. We listen to Mr Rancan and hear that Mr Rancan is very wrong, trying to calm all the listeners down by the fact that, behold, it is not forgiveness, it is just a suspension. If you look at Section 58 of the Labour Law, you can see that rejection is actually applied at the most difficult times, at the most severe times, when the employer penalties the employee. In principle, colleagues - this is a penalty, it's nothing else, because stopping from work can be temporarily for up to three months (just for this period of emergency, which is likely to be extended) without maintaining wages – without maintaining wages! And I would like to see those Members who will now be so easy to decide on supporting such rules as they could survive for at least one month without maintaining the Member's salary. Are they even in the course of things, how low wages are also for public sector workers, and how low wages are for those people who were literally crying to the Saeima today, telling their life story. Of course, fire-fighters were the ones who came to exist and show that they were still in Latvia, but in addition to those people who came in forms, there were also very many people from different bodies that told their story. Colleagues, I call on you to think very seriously about supporting this Cabinet order. You must not support this order, because in this way you will support the segregation of people, the humiliation of people, you will destroy the remains of hope that people have for the work of the Saeima, for the government. You will crush everything. I call on you not to be so cruel that whatever party you may be, whatever hope you may have on your future, please vote against. The Cabinet of Ministers may meet even after an hour and decide on a new order of the Cabinet of Ministers, in accordance with human rights. This order must be withdrawn. Please vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U15	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U16	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Each incident or accident shall have a name. Talking about the dramatic situation in health care in Latvia, now society is mainly linking it to Minister Daniels Pavluta. Of course, he is not the only one to blame on this matter. The current catastrophic medical situation in Latvia is the result of decades. Immediately after the restoration of Latvia's independence, and especially after our accession to the European Union, money was at the heart of the health care system, not people. National hospitals have become huge companies with commercial revenues and tens of millions of euros in turnover. And there is no better soil for corruption than a cross between public administration and private business. Prime Minister Kariņš is surprised at the small number of beds that started to work for huge amounts of money spent. Mr Kariņš is better interested in which companies have received orders for expensive medical equipment and who owns these legal entities. Instead of going on summer holidays, the Latvian government had to introduce new units of the coronavirus. Day and night. Indeed, even at the beginning of this year, there was a known threat of the spread of delta coronavirus. There are many abandoned hospitals in Latvia that could be converted into Covid-19 treatment units at minimal cost. And there were talks about it with big construction specialists. For example, the Linezer Hospital or the “Gailezer” Children’s Hospital. The government was obliged to soften immigration rules during the coronavirus and to attract nurses and doctors from abroad to our country by ordering them to recruit special international placement agencies. For example, over the last year, several East Asian countries have successfully overcome the coronavirus. We could, with our salary, competitively attract these medical staff and teach them, within a few months, the basics of the national language and the medical protocols adopted in our country. Medical professional organizations have already set a clear diagnosis for this government – to resign! The crisis situation in Latvia should be managed by a non-participant professional. First and foremost, the approach of experts should be taken under the direction of the Ministry of Health. None of you, honourable coalition colleagues, but won't let a former musician operate you, so why do you want him to run medicine all over our Latvia? Please do not support the draft government decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U17	Name to Member Juris Rancan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U18	Good afternoon, colleagues! For my part, I just wanted to add that, now, I am very sad to see how democratic rights are being used today to hinder the crisis management process in order to delay the vaccination process. Colleagues, the problem is that we really... Some people, of course, are likely to be deceived, yet they are putting their personal interests and individual comfort ahead of everything, also for the interests of the state, for the interests of society, but they are not doing so. I would also like to speak about today's saviour... part, of course, of the rescuers... the share in which they exercised their right to protest in order to delay the vaccination process. Colleagues! Well, it's totally nonsense. This is the same as the doctors would now say, ‘Apologies, colleagues, don’t use smoke detectors!’ Well, it looks like that. I want to thank all the doctors who save lives. In turn, I would like to ask those workers who took part in this campaign if they were afraid of the pot: “If you’re afraid of the pot, what will you do in case of a real fire?” That is one question. The next thing I would like to remember for all these rescuers is that rescuers' mission is to save human lives, not to threaten them, including by carrying the virus. Colleagues! Savers! Who will be responsible for overloaded hospitals and the dead? The society is likely – and not even likely, but a hundred percent – to be demanded from politicians. The public will not say: ‘The rescuers who stood in that action are responsible for overloaded hospitals, and their consciences are the dead.’ Take this into account. And more about these things. I call for at least those people who want to be vaccinated not to be hindered. I call on representatives of the Ministry of the Interior to find time and means to explain to these specific representatives of the DGT who participated in this action and to find educational measures on immunological issues that would reduce their irrational fear of the vaccine. Well, colleagues, it is really tragic that the employees of the public administration, while there, question and oppose the orders issued by this country itself. In addition, they base their reasoning, i.e., their irrational fear, on which – on semi-truths, studies, incomprehensible publications! I really... I'm shocked by the fact that people can't pull basic things together. Currently, Denmark, Norway, Sweden have abolished everything due to the existence of a vaccination coverage. According to the stories of so-called anti-vacciners, these all... 90... how many people are already supposed to be there? I don't know what to do with them. And none of these antivacs see this. They have the theory that we will all die after the vaccine. It will not be approved at any time, but it is taken seriously. People are trying to find even legal mistakes to prevent the promotion of vaccination, including measures to try to prove that only they are the wise ones that the country does not have to take these measures. But here Mr Valaiņš rightly pointed out that perhaps there should be an even stronger position. I call on every anti-vaccine to take responsibility for the people who have died in hospitals. These deaths were prevented by vaccination. Thank you, colleagues, for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U19	( Talks to someone.) Excuse me... The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U20	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Hello, colleagues! Latvia is currently experiencing no easier times. The alienation of the government and the nation has become very strong. People are divided according to different names, their beliefs, their beliefs, and their behaviors. Is there a possibility of ending this situation with a positive solution? My answer in this case is no! What causes the situation to be exacerbated? Since the beginning of the Covid-19, the government and the Saeima came with an invitation to trust in science, follow the advice and collectively overcome this disease. What came out of it? Mysical purchases of vaccines, borrowing money on behalf of the country, expensive projects in the appearance of the vaccination office, and this could be called more. When has confidence in the Saeima and the Cabinet disappeared? I think this happened when the Cabinet misunderstood the delegation and began to behave like an elephant in a dish store. It should be recalled here that the events of January this year, when the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No. 360, which turned from a relatively rational document into a francentine that paralyzed the state, caused indignation and hatred of state power in people. It must be acknowledged that members of the Saeima were also made victims of the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers. All practices with lists of goods, bans on operators and unclear support mechanisms have led to increasing tensions. In my opinion, the Ministry of Health was unable to manage this crisis and discredited itself, and it referred to all the work of the government. Time was running, and the summer relaxed for the main crisis. The end of August came, and it was found that the spring lesson had not been taken into account, and again full chaos began in the government. Launch of training in the field, where there was a lot of uncertainty, chaos with crowd testing in schools, hospital calls for help, increase of the sick – all this is the conclusion of the new regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers today, which is even greater chaos, although we called for the revision of regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 360 people in a language that can be understood – so that it is clear to everyone what the country wants from its citizens so that it can tackle this crisis together. It is not clear what is happening in the minds of ministers and officials that, instead of listening to science (it has always been called upon by the people), inexplicable rules and orders are being developed and adopted. I do not think that the team of experts refused detailed reasons for consulting the government. Then the question arises – who has and who does not have to listen to science? Science is also not always able to answer all the questions – whether or not the immunity of the crowd exists, whether prevention can slow down the rate of infection or whether vaccines are so harmless. Many of the questions remained unanswered. Or – people whose education did not necessarily involve medicine began to respond. In conclusion. As a member of the Saeima and a representative of the voters, I express my distrust with the government led by Krišjānis Kariņš and call on the President of Latvia to take immediate action so that the Prime Minister, who is able to withdraw the country from the crisis, is at the head of the government, will be able to lead the ministers who represent the political forces elected by the Saeima. At the moment, we have to admit that in several fronts of the state war, at the same time: the crisis, the refugee crisis, the rise in electricity, the rise in fuel prices, the overload of the medical system, and plus a total lack of confidence in the government. Existing ministers are soldiers? I don't think so, because 13 caesareans who run their kingdoms, plus one half caesarean and one manager in Krišjānis Kariņš, who tries to tame the caesarean... The result is very bad. It is a pity that the state does not have a president, a stateman who could collect all this chaos and put the state back on the rails. Instead, we see a person completely out of real life trying to shine his image with questionable methods. Dear colleagues, Supporting the regulations, orders, we expose the society to an unexpected wave of anger and insult, which in no way contributes to approaching victory over diseases and other types of problems. I invite everyone to listen to their voices and reject the regulations developed by the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U21	Name of Member Evia Papulei. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U22	Dear colleagues, Did you notice that... We are currently discussing a government order that has come to the Saeima, but have you noticed that this order is not represented by the head of government and that no minister is following our debate today? To some extent... Why? I would like to expect the Prime Minister to address the Saeima as it would be his personal responsibility – responsibility for what the government has decided at the moment. We all understand that there is a crisis in health, there will soon be a crisis in home affairs and there will probably also be a crisis in education. That's why I... for a lot of surprise and for a lot of disappointment... It must be said that the Prime Minister is not in his place and... is not in his right place, because first of all he does not have the courage to tell us now what result he sees from the implementation of this order. Secondly, if the Prime Minister had explained why the experts in the field of health no longer want to cooperate with the government, why the government forecasts do not take into account and hear what science says... And, thirdly, it would probably only be the right respect... respect for the Saeima. If Mr. Rancāns believes that he already fulfils the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers and the order of the Cabinet of Ministers, it is his choice. We should do what has been adopted by the legislator... Choice. I call on you not to support this order and send it back to the government for further technical amendments, because it would probably be a lot and it would not be nice if the Saeima had been in an extraordinary sitting... not only in the context of the budget tomorrow, but also in the future... should meet continuously to approve technical amendments. It is possible that such a "technical amendment" (I use these words in the footsteps) will be necessary for the education system, because we already know that there is a lack of teachers, that there are not really precise legal instruments for school directors or school leaders to do with those teachers whose choice is different from those who might expect pragmatic thinking. But – everyone has their own reasons. How to solve the fact that perhaps a large proportion of students whose parents do not support to some extent such pragmatic decisions... your children to educate themselves at home? What do we expect from the next generation, and who will answer for it? I think that responsibility for this lies with the Prime Minister and, I think, also with the Ministers. Therefore, I call on you not to support this order by asking for more specific technical corrections and additions in at least three sectors: health (it is likely that you will ever publish it – and will publish it in the near future! – the crisis situation), education (the people in the sector asked for an extension of teachers’ activities until the end of this year for a number of reasons, including the end of the semester), and probably also in the home system. Sectors are waiting for pragmatic solutions, not just many of those mentioned, because we are not animals, we are independent people. And at this point, colleagues of the Saeima, maybe you can take no responsibility for the Prime Minister, because that's his job to do. I call on you not to support, give back to the Cabinet of Ministers, make technical amendments and then pragmatically support the solution of common problems, rather than continue to hide government errors in various... Look at the crown. This order is indeed the crown of error. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U23	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U24	Colleagues! I would like to say a little bit about the courage of Mr Rancan. Yes, we have heard that individual Members... including Mr. Ranzan is brave enough to be proud of having received this needle stitch, but thinks the rest... so, service staff... fear of it. I think there is more story here about the inner courage to stand up against various absolutely foolish decisions. Mr. Rancán certainly couldn't enter a baffled room and save a man. If we talk about what the government is doing to society at the moment, then we can really go back to the collectiveisation event, where it was the same: as if – as if! - it wasn't forced, but... There were in every parish such “breasts of bananas ” as were certainly... told me about what... who tells about the same collages and pointed to the homes to which people have to come and gather. Yes, I have a moral right to speak in this way, and I know that my ancestors would be proud that I am opposed to this “collective benefit” (footsteps), because we know very well that whenever there is a lack of legal arguments to achieve such or other changes, there is a case for “collective benefit” or “public security”. Colleagues! You will not be able to correct this order of the Cabinet of Ministers in any way if you now accept it. You know very well how difficult the Saeima were to try to pray from the Cabinet of Ministers... make such or other amendments. The Saeima must show that the Cabinet of Ministers is wrong – and it is cruel. This will be one of the biggest errors in the history of Latvia's recent times, and you are members of this error. I call on you to strongly reject this order of the Cabinet of Ministers. Make a new one! Let us see what it will be like, whether it is without discrimination against people, and then let us continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U25	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U26	Thank you. Hello! Unfortunately, this order is a demonstration of government's irrational action – it is government's irrational action! – and the intent and great alienation of politicians belonging to the ruling coalition from reality and from the real Latvian people. Who proves this? It is the very fact that people do not trust the government that they do not trust politicians. And this also happens in the sense that the percentage of unvaccinated people is very high. Is that what we need to blame for the opposition and those people who do not trust the government? Well, let it remain to the conscience of politicians who preach such things publicly. Unfortunately, yes... The people of Denmark, Norway and Sweden trust their politicians, trust their government, and their trust is based on the fact that the government respects, respects and speaks honestly to its people. Unfortunately, our politicians lie. Unfortunately, our ruling coalition makes decisions largely behind closed doors – at an early stage – and not openly and publicly. Unfortunately, our ruling coalition initially wasted a great deal of money, the recipients of which are among the sponsors... political power... in the context of these political forces... and who also used these funds, possibly abused; this is also indicated by the Saeima Investigation Commission – those risks and facts. Unfortunately, the coalition ruling in Latvia wastes the money paid by taxpayers in research, working groups and exit meetings. Unfortunately, once again, it goes on vacations and rests when critical situations and difficult and crisis moments occur in the management and organisation of public work. And to blame people or opposition in it is simply unethical, unjust and unbiased. Objectively – both the Prime Minister and the President are acting irrationally, who was sick now and who is buying a expensive piano instead of thinking about people who may be unemployed and those industries that are now catastrophic... There will be a shortage in both development and survival. Yes, before you blame others, you should do your homework. And in this case, both the work of the government and the ministers, the work of the housework, was to act in the interests of the people, to speak clearly, intelligible terms, to act consistently and also to make good use of the resources. But unfortunately... We see what happened to the purchase of vaccines. We see the means directed towards the vaccination office, the newspaper. We see that people who speak Russian have not had and are not able to choose another vaccine that they may wish and would like to carry out vaccination. The interests and views of this part of society are completely ignored. And now's ruling coalition, the ruling politicians believe that the opposition or people are irrational. Look at yourself in the mirror, please, first and only then blame others! Do your homework! Be open to the public! And be rational in reasoning your decisions, not as you have already done – you forbid to buy underwear, but you allowed to buy alcohol. And I'm sorry, in this case... This order is not acceptable, because it is unthinkable, it does not respect society, and it does not, by its very nature, solve the real problem that we have now faced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U27	Name to Member Krista Bauman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U28	Dear President, Dear colleagues and colleagues! Everyone who looks at us and listens to us! The decision that we are currently looking at was to be taken in the summer, when the health minister and experts called on this with data-based arguments and forecasts. ‘ If we do nothing, the delta option will reap our seniors in the autumn,” said the Minister for Health, but he was accused of intimidation. In fact, over the whole period of the pandemic, but especially in recent times, hardening the Covid-19 virus's spread has been opposed by all the efforts of both our coalition partners, the ministers of the sectors, who are, in the worst case, engaged in active opposition, at best doing nothing and silence, as well as by the head of government at times. That is not exactly accurate. Instead of being silent, the head of the government once says something outrageous, but it is not enough. The Prime Minister must take the lead. His role in the joint effort to combat the virus is crucial so that everyone does his job and stand unitedly behind necessary decisions, albeit unpopular, and not just one health minister, which is later criticised and blamed all over. Mr. Kariņš, you are responsible for ensuring that the Cabinet of Ministers works as a team, not as a pike, cancer and swan – draw wheels on each side. The number of Covid-19 infected has been tenfold since the end of July, but on 21 September the Prime Minister's party leader publicly said that no further restrictions were needed. Experts' views were not heard during the summer. The recent desperate cries about the disaster, not the recommendations, were to be expected from an overflow of hospitals and doctors. For almost two years, two years of pandemic, while listening to the debates of politicians, especially the opposition, both from this tribunal and elsewhere in the public space, at times it is difficult to believe in their ears. You, who call on the government to abolish all restrictions and precautions, speak against the obligation to vaccinate certain professions, speak against vaccination as such and sit in public doubt, call on face protection masks and dramatically tearing off their cameras – do you really hate the people of Latvia so much that you want them to become ill with Covid-19 and die? This virus has affected every Latvian family. How can you treat it so insensitive and cruel?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In the last few weeks alone, my great circle of relatives died of Omite and her daughter. Both have not been vaccinated. Meanwhile, the man walks around the sick, ignores all requirements and distributes the virus further. A ten - year - old daughter became sick in the family of vaccinated friends. My daughter is also 10 years old, and I was very concerned when I heard her falling into bed – I was worried if it was a seasonal cough, a common virus or a Covid-19. The restrictions are unpleasant for all of us – for people and businesses. However, we, as responsible members of society, must do all we can to avoid disease and the spread of the virus. First of all, I have to vaccinate. Dear colleagues, who have not yet done so for political reasons! I urge you to act as responsible adults, not as a hippopotamus. There is such a wonderful Soviet-era mult film “Begemot, who was afraid of poets”, created by artist Sutejev. The main hero of the film, begemot, in every way tries to avoid a compulsory pot against yellow disease until finally become ill and get into the hospital. That's very instructive. I advise you to watch. Secondly, the restrictions imposed must be respected in good faith, no matter how uncomfortable they are. If we don't, it's even worse. This is not just what one government minister says, but experts and medical practitioners. And they know what they're talking about. We are not only members of society here. We who are politicians have to do our job, so we also have to make the unpopular decisions needed to save lives. As I said, I think the right moment for this decision was summer. The best time was yesterday. It's late. And now the best moment is today. Colleagues, I call on you to do your job and to support... and then work together together to save human lives and return to a relatively normal life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U29	Name to Member Long Schuplinsk. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U30	Hello! Lobby dyna! Oh, my God! Listening to today’s sitting, only classic literature comes to mind and the saying that some will always be more equal than others. Given that I am also one of the ministers who, already in the previous wave, constantly pointed to one particular age group that is constantly suffering in this period, I will focus my attention this time only on the rule of law aspect and what we see in this particular order. 720... Cabinet of Ministers regulations for children. In fact, Norway, Denmark and Sweden, mentioned above, were able to lift their restrictions because people in the 50+ age group have been vaccinated there – 80 or 100 percent. This allowed the rest of society, especially young and working people, to be vaccinated on a truly voluntary basis. And in reality, I must say thank you very much to those people in the education sector, probably also to social workers... and, according to data from the Ministry of Culture, also for cultural workers who have already vaccinated – 75 percent... In some individual cases, it must be said that in companies – up to 100 percent. What do we see in these emergency regulations? We see that it is precisely in this area that one hundred percent vaccination is required. In spring, schools did not open up because of the need to protect the older generation. Currently, there is a need to vaccinate those professions that are already in acute need of workers. We therefore return to the rights of the children. Not much that... they are, in principle, not indicated... with a productive and high-quality life possible... and all the time is either forgotten or mentioned only in the past, but... In principle, the fact that... They're asking... Their rights are being reduced, and they will be a category of risk that parents are likely to lose their jobs after 15 November. And here is no story of irrationality, non-respect of society, non-educational. Here is a story about the fact that every person is an individual and can indeed have absolutely objective reasons why one hundred percent vaccination does not take place in one professional group or another. And that's why this professional group does not have to be subject to destruction. And one more thing. The situation that colleagues have already spoken about is very absurd, as was the case for education in the summer. My view, too, is that the summer has had to be stepped up for a large number of domestic work, including the arrangement of testing systems, increasing access to health care and, by the way, ventilation and ventilation in every school, not for other work, for "high readiness" projects, which we are currently seeing as unenforceable. Absorbence takes place in higher education. We clearly see that the distance work and the distance study are the future. At the moment, we see that one hundred per cent of vaccination is also required there. What happens to today’s youth? A study by Mārtiņš Kaprans has just come out. He writes: In 2020, eight and a half thousand have returned to Latvia, 12 thousand have left, mostly people between the ages of 20 and 30. A current survey conducted specifically for young people between 18 and 24 years of age shows that each fourth is ready to leave our country. This only means that, in this crisis situation, we are unable to give confidence either in providing basic basic needs or in ensuring a quality of life. And that is why I would like these Cabinet Regulations to be revised really and to really highlight the most important areas where the Ministry of Health has responsibility for increasing the vaccination capacity of a given age stage and where... this discriminatory requirement, which is in certain sectors, would really be removed. I very much hope that... colleagues on all sides need to work together and there are solutions available here, but in the present case... This state of emergency not only does not solve the problem, but also creates chaos, misunderstandings, distrust and in fact prolongs the Covid crisis in Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U31	Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U32	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Mrs Šuplinsk, who spoke before me, has already said some of what I wanted to say in relation to education. However, there are things that have not yet been said today. What was also warned of by the opposition of the Saeima – the very high rate of morbidity in our country, the number of hospitalised cases and even the deaths caused by the Covid-19 virus. Among other things, it's still in many places... vaccines do not appear to be available for those who have just decided to vaccinate, especially for seniors. Such cases are – and not alone. And about all this emergency that has actually come into our country... and which is also called upon by industry professionals, medical practitioners – that the government must accept strictly – strictly! – clear, understandable and effective decisions and have to stop, I apologize for being embarrassed. Sorting people, discrimination against people and so on... Absolute irrational decisions. The fact that the state would need an emergency in nature – it is obvious, but this particular decision on the emergency comes with the order of the Cabinet of Ministers, which is questioned not only by the firemen who gathered today at the Saeima House, but not only by policemen, but also by many educators, but also by the Council for the Judiciary, whose letter we have all received today. Can anyone say that these people are the most uneducated part of society? They're the ones who don't understand anything, who don't have an education? These decisions which have been taken... What is in this regulation, Cabinet of Ministers Order No. 720 – these are horrors, as my colleagues from our group also told me. There are countless examples. I can give my example. My sons, seven and eleven years old, will not be able to play basketball right now, but they will be able to go to the cinema. Is that right? We called on Members of the Saeima to vaccinate; so far, if I understand correctly, around 95 percent of Members have received a vaccine, and we cannot be present at the sittings of the Saeima. But at the same time on the gaming hall in the presence of the slot machine play go we can. And, by the way, at the Saeima Legal Commission this week we were discussing whether sitting at this slot machine would still be able to drink alcohol; or yet a few steps will have to go to the bar to take the alcohol. Seriously! Instead of tackling all these weddings that have been organised in the Cabinet, we are talking about everything else. It is systematic – decisions on the part of the government and on the part of coalition parties and Members who are part of society... has completely lost all trust. So there's also this problem that people don't believe in the government, they don't believe in the state, they don't believe in the fact that this vaccine can protect them from death, they believe that people can never die... In any case, this possibility is much lower than if you have not vaccinated. You're afraid to go and honestly talk to people here right now, at the Saeima House, honestly say... I'm an example... I go and tell the story – yes, I have been vaccinated, I stand here absolutely, absolutely alive; it is my risk, it is my responsibility, I cannot impose it on anyone. There must be a principle of voluntaryity, as was the case in Denmark, where the results are completely different. We're... When we think about human physical health, we forget about human mental health. People are already... many are desperate! We can regularly read about new suicides, broken families, and topics that family members no longer talk about; among other things, vaccination is one of them. This issue, as the government is leading this crisis, is very, very divided by our societies, is the sanitized collectives, the sanitized families. People's faith in the state is important – essential! – damaged. There are many examples. And the professions... And during the execution of this order – all the more... We also see how, in many cases, the government itself acts: by the way, the state of emergency has begun, but we will complete our missions. And so on. So, colleagues, we need to take more decisive and tougher action. But such brothers who come up with this emergency decision... This Regulation, No 720, under no circumstances can it be supported. I will vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U33	Name to Member Igor Pimenov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U34	Dear Members and honourable Members, Indeed, it is a legally poorly prepared and recyclable document. Due to removal from work the order of the Cabinet of Ministers “On promulgation of the Emergency situation” may be challenged in the administrative court. The decision of the Department of Administrative Cases of the Senate of the Republic of Latvia of 6 July 2020 in the case “Reputation of restrictions imposed by Covid-19 due to an emergency situation”. The decision is as follows: “The person is entitled to challenge and appeal against the order of 12 March 2020 of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 103 ‘Proclaiming an emergency’, which declared an emergency throughout the territory of the country with a view to limiting the prevalence of Covid-19 only in part containing a general administrative act. In addition, a person may also challenge and appeal a general administrative act only if he is within the scope of persons subject to an obligation or restriction imposed by a general administrative act.’ I apologise for this long quote, but that is very important. This decision means that after the employee receives an employer order to leave the employment after the new emergency circumstances, the employee can challenge it in the court of general jurisdiction and at the same time claim the court... apply to the Constitutional Court for cancellation of the order of the Cabinet of Ministers. Members have already spoken about this possibility in this debate. I conclude that it is necessary to wait for the flow of applications by persons who have been suspended from work. There are two more things I would like to talk about. Transitional period until 18 October... concerning the application of restrictions on the organisation of cultural events... is too short. The performance dates of the Russian theatre art festival Golden Mask... The performances planned and sold out in spring are also after October 18. I ask Mr Ranzan to control and hand over to the government as rapporteur... I also ask the Minister for Culture, Mr Puntulis, to respect, however, the interest of visitors to theatre performances, to be consistently confident and not to limit the limits of the emergency to those cultural events on which tickets were sold before the emergency was declared. And more. The fact that most of our fellow citizens will have to work remotely in the future can be a serious blow to both the catering industry and the beauty industry in particular, as the motivation to visit hairdressers and manicure is lost. I call, however, for this situation to be analysed and for appropriate amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection in order to address this challenge and provide compensation to workers in the sectors. To conclude, however, I conclude that this document is perhaps also necessary in itself, but it is very weak, so I allow some of my fellow Members, including those from other political groups, not to support it, but to abstain from voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U35	The name of Member Eric Pucen. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U36	Hello, dear colleagues! We see that our country's law guard has come with a message that 600 thousand people in Latvia are on the verge of poverty. Following this government order, there will not be more than 600,000 such people, but there will be much more. Here I want to touch some groups. I'd like to start with the teachers. As we know, we have a lot of young teachers who have taken up study credits, who have hoped they will be able to work, but now, with this emergency, they will find themselves in a position to lose their jobs, but before that, they will still have to pay for the peer tests to do this last month. And then, so to speak, they will be sent away or released from work. Well, then, these people will come to the group that will need social assistance. And the most interesting thing is this social benefit, this help that the coalition's partners, the National Association, the Head of Government are telling us about here. It's so interesting to get you to be almost poor first so you get something at all. Or – I'll sort you out first, and then maybe you'll get something. Yesterday was a very interesting situation with several vaccination points... A number of teachers also approached me, saying that nothing can be done anymore and that they feel so well used to say so. And they, realizing that the lines of Kuldīga are very long, went to Ventspils. And there's a lady in the years that's from the fields that's come by a taxi, got the money to get to this vaccination point, and realize that there's nothing going to happen here today. And so this lady went back to her place of residence. We could take care of people throughout the summer to vaccinate, but in the end, we squeezed in such a short time that we can't do anything. Well “Thank you” to the Minister – very “good”. The second group I would like to speak about is the National Police Officers. We know that the National Police has not had the greatest reward, and many people have gone there to work under the leadership of their patriotism. And now, with this order, this group of people will also be thrown into the manure, as it were. Is this equal treatment? Well, and where will we remain as a society this security factor if, suddenly, the State police are no longer able to ensure order? There is no answer anywhere as to how big this “incomplete” will be – how many policemen cared for public security. The internal security of the country was some time ago a priority for President Levite and Prime Minister Kariņš, now there is probably no more. Well, for the big gentlemen, a short memory can be that same. The third group is firefighters. It is clear that fire-fighters must not go on strike. But we have one such Member... Well, I don't know how to call her... Saima's talent, I'll call him one who says there's no courage for firefighters. Firefighters don't have the courage?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Yes, Mr. Rancan. There's no courage for fire-fighters who save lives, who risk low wages and who go on these shifts of the day, they work?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And you say they have no courage! Well, life... God is not a little child, Mr. Rancan. You need to think about what you're talking about. And the fourth group I would like to mention is social care workers. It has been established that they are also a compulsory group to be vaccinated. These are people who go to the elderly, work where it is already hard, and they do so either with confidence, or perhaps with patriotism. Well, every person makes this choice. And then I have the question: what happens if these people leave? Who's gonna work there? No ministry has answered how large this ‘incomplete’ is. Well, then...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U37	Thank you. Your debate is over. The name to Anda Chakša. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U38	Hello, colleagues! I would like to start by saying a great deal of thanks to all those citizens who have gone for their vaccine these days. I am very sorry that they do not come to their vaccine quickly. Although the government has set up vaccination as its priority for a long time, they still have to stand for four or five hours on these days to receive their vaccine. I'd say that if we call it ready for the situation that we're ready to vaccinate people, then... That is not the case. Second. If we look at medical institutions, which were essentially prepared throughout the summer to help people who might be affected by the community in the autumn, then... Even at the moment we hear that medical institutions do not receive timely payment for services rendered in connection with investment... Covide. As well as the treatment... Covide. And medical institutions do not get full algorithms to understand what to do. They are left alone – to understand who to help and whom not. I would call on the Ministry of Health to stop pitying and stop doing media... statements, but start working. Start working in such a way that the people of Latvia are protected. And I call for support for this emergency announcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U39	The name of Member Regina Lochmele. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U40	Hello! I hope you all read today the news that 21 more people died of the Covid-19, and all of them – 21 – were in the 60+ age group. Someone has to take responsibility for this. And what he has to assume is his responsibility – in fact, this was already said by three doctors' professional organizations last night. They said that it would be absolutely natural for this government to resign. And I do not understand why we are voting in favour of this order today, and not because the government has to leave, that the government has to resign. I don't know why we all expected them to do it when doctors tell them. I join Mr. Krista Baumane in saying that Mr. Kariņš has problems with leadership. He's a good man, maybe, but a bad crisis manager. He does not know how to control this government, which looks like this order – it is like a misgraded decoy of various pieces that make up some decoy, but it is by nature not a decoy. What is happening now in the country looks like... I could refer to the words of a neighbouring leader... looks like a policy of reduced social responsibility. What was demonstrated by the government as a result of this pandemic outbreak in September is nothing more than a policy with reduced social responsibility – you thought about your career, about preserving your positions, not about people living in your country. In our country. Latvia. At the beginning of September, President Levite gathered representatives of both the position and the opposition and said: Behold, it is time for you to agree, put together your heads, hearts, your conscience and plan for how we will control this pandemic. Mr. Latkovsky promised: it will be three weeks, after three weeks, all of us, each of the political groups, will come together... with your thoughts... and let's do everything. It's now been three weeks, not three weeks, but more. Where are the common positions and the opposition sittings? Where, Mr. Levite, are the consequences of your call? Nothing else, just a policy of reduced social responsibility. That is why you will not get your support for this order from us today, at least from the Group. We cannot also vote against the announcement of an emergency, because 2400 people are already infected and 21 are dead today. You have put people, those who have left their conscience between two millstones, with your social irresponsibility, between the fact that we cannot support the humiliation of people and that we have to think that people do not die. That is why our vote will also be one that we will certainly get... from some of our opposition: once again the Group will abstain. Yes, we will. Just because it's a point of conscience for every Member, when you can't be "for" or "no" because what was supposed to happen today, the government had to resign. Point. I call you all to think about it. And maybe... I hope that now, suddenly, Mr Kariņš will join us, who will express himself, because this sitting was the place where he was supposed to be, to listen and to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U41	The name to Member Eric Pucen for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U42	Colleagues, I want to finish what I say. As we know, the media has always been spoken and sung... Both our Prime Minister and the Minister for Health said that this vaccination would be voluntary and that everyone would be able to choose, and that we are not here any Belarus, there is no totalitarian regime. But now we see where we are. So how can society believe in the head of government or in the Minister for Health who change their opinion, who cannot keep their seed?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And we can also see in this debate... New Unity and Development/About! Now go and talk over there, not here... not through the Saeima sitting, speak! After all, you have your meetings, talk and solve these problems. You work so hard... Take it up once! If you do not want to listen to the opposition's solutions for overcoming the crisis, then go and work. And of our kind, so to speak, the Heads of State, who are unable to hold the seed. You know, in society we'd call you people who can't hold their spine. Maybe you guys are. Perhaps it is time for you to leave office and resign. I call on colleagues not to support this order by the Cabinet of Ministers, because it will destroy a very large part of society in poverty and the families. I call for no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U43	Name to Member Aivars... I closed the debate. The debate is already closed, Mr Zarins, it is no longer possible to apply. Mr. Rancan, what else will you say?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U44	Yeah. What I would like to add on behalf of the Commission. The Commission was presented... from Mr. Perevosčikov and the Disease Prevention and Control Centre... these rates, including the number of persons vaccinated and unvaccinated, to the extent to which they enter hospitals. And this data is absolutely convincing: at present hospitals are burdening and other patients who could be treated in hospitals are currently having unvaccinated beds... most of the... absolute majority – about 80 percent... even more – even 88 percent, I think it was... So these unvaccinated patients. The objective data are inexcusable. That is why the Commission, when listening to the institutions, as well as getting to know the content of this order, all these restrictions and new obligations imposed on natural and legal persons according to the definition of the Emergency Law... I mean, what is an emergency? This is a situation in which the Cabinet of Ministers has the right to limit the freedoms and rights of legal and natural persons and impose obligations on them to manage the threat (in this case – to manage the threat of epidemiological security). The Commission, having heard these objective data and all other arguments, supported this draft decision. And that is why I call once again on you, fellow Members, to support the draft decision prepared in the Commission, which supports the declared emergency situation. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2302-U45	Thank you, Mr Ranzan, for your report. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the announcement of the emergency situation! Please, let's vote! For - 54, for - 13, for - 18. Decision adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, on the agenda - consideration of Members' requests. Requests received by Members. Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Kaspars Ģirgens, Lubova Švecova, Māris Možvillo, Ramona Petraviča, Ēriks Pucens, Karina Sprūde, Ieva Krapāne, Inguna Rībena and Ralfs Nemiro have submitted a request to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš “On obligation to ensure the right to education of the students of the Maritime School in accordance with Article 112 of the Satversme”. The request of Members is submitted to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš... Request to the Commission. Dear colleagues, We have therefore examined the agenda for the second remote emergency session on 14 October. I would also like to read to you the question that has been tabled by Members. Members Ivars Zarins, Valerijus Agešins, Vitalijs Orlovs, Edgars Kucins and Arthur Rubiks have submitted a question to the Minister of Health Daniels Pavļutas “On additional information to be provided in relation to Covid-19 statistics”. The question of Members will be referred to the Minister. So... registration of the presence of additional Members. And on October 14, I closed my second remote emergency sitting. Thank you.
