ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! A remote emergency sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 4 November 2021 shall be opened. Before we start to discuss the agenda, the Saeima Bureau informs you that today's lunch break is between 12.30 and 1 p.m. Please note that the Saeima Presidium has shortened the lunch break in connection with the Baltic Assembly meeting in Vilnius, and several of our colleagues are going to this meeting in Lithuania. We started to examine the agenda drawn up by the Saeima Bureau. Reports by the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law on electronic communications presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda, under the heading ‘Dealing the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, trust or distrust’. The draft decision submitted by Members Ainars Latkovskis, Anda Čakša, Arvils Ašeradens, Kārlis Šadurskis, Rihards Kozlovskis, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Edgars Tavars, Jānis Dūklavs, Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla and Inese Voika “On approval of Member Ata Leieniņš as Permanent Representative of the Latvian Delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly”. Please call me! Let us vote on this draft decision! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - under the heading ‘Handling draft laws’. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour, Member Evita Zālīte-Grosa. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U2	Good morning, dear colleagues! The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs examined and supported the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” (No. 1213/Lp13). A total of 13 proposals have been received. 1. - the proposal of welfare minister Gats Eglitis, which provides for the renewal of the sickness benefit between 1 November and 31 December. Given that vaccines are available to us from 1 May, this assistance will apply to persons who have an interoperable certificate of vaccination or congestion or who have received an opinion on the need to postpone vaccination. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U3	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U4	Partially supported, forgiveness! Partly supported and included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U5	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U6	2. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Clarifying that the opinion may also be given by hospital experts at the clinical university. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U7	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Vital Orlov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U8	Good morning, honourable colleagues! Dear President, I will explain why I and the Members of the Group will abstain from this vote and also from the vote on the draft law as a whole. We support the fact that the government provided a helping shoulder for entrepreneurs during this difficult period and decided to support the issue of a sick leave from the first day, but we cannot agree to the way in which... that the Ministry of Welfare calls for forced vaccination of people. In our view, we cannot force people to go and vaccinate through the sickness benefit. We believe that we have other mechanisms that need to be put in place to encourage people to vaccinate more and more. So we... I will abstain from this vote and the Group will also abstain... also in the vote on the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U9	I closed the debate. Mrs. Herpes-Gross, will you comment on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U10	Yes, 3. - the proposal of Member Petraviča and Member Krapāne, which provides for the deletion of the words of point 54 of the transitional provisions in the draft law...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U11	I am sorry, Mrs Zalīte-Gross, we are still debating proposal 2. I asked: will you comment on Mr Orlov's comment?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U12	Yeah. In my opinion, we do not force anyone to vaccinate, that is first. Secondly, the draft law is neither discriminatory nor discriminatory. In terms of vaccinated persons, we... of course we support a little, but... In principle, the regulation remains the same as it has been so far. And the benefits of this law are for both the employer and the employee. So... Yes, I completely disagree with Mr Orlov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U13	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs! Please, let's vote! For - 52, for - 8, for - 17. The Commission's proposal is supported. Proposal No 3, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U14	3. - the proposal of Members Petraviča and Krapāne, which provides for the deletion from the transitional provision contained in the draft law of the words "who has an interoperable certificate of vaccination or congestion or who has received an opinion on the need to postpone vaccination...".
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U15	And the Commission is not supported. Let's start a debate. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U16	Good morning, honourable leader of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, There must be absolutely equal and non-discriminatory treatment of all workers in the country. And the sickness sheets must be paid to both vaccinated and flaked persons, unvaccinated persons and their contact persons. It is unfair to leave the cost burden on employers of Covid-19 sick persons or persons to be isolated, and this creates a difference in treatment between workers and workers in equal and comparable situations, but who are financially... receives a different payment for the sick leave. It should also be borne in mind that in a number of sectors, the costs and losses incurred by employers will only increase with housing and additional restrictions on economic activity. The state paid sickness sheets for all Covid-19 patients until June 30, this year, but then did not train people - vaccinated, unvaccinated... or otherwise. He paid everyone. At a time when illness is much higher and the burden of the full cost of the sick leaves lies on the employer's shoulders, it is also unfair towards the employer. And so this attitude is more focused on punishing the employer for not having released their unvaccinated staff, that they still have a job, but are trying to ensure. And how could the employer force the workers to vaccinate? The employer is currently found to be guilty of the rapid progress of the vaccination process. The blameless one. The government is always looking for someone to blame: not they themselves, but everyone else is guilty of government failures and failings. And that has absolutely nothing to do with combating the pandemic. This could only be translated into a return to the vaccinated for failure to secure the promised freedom and then to impose a euro on their elites. But - freedom is not guaranteed by vaccine, freedom is guaranteed by the Satversme. It is important to follow the instructions of the epidemiologists (distance and so on) given the rapid increase in Covid-19 cases, as well as the pace of vaccination in the country. So: if there really is a desire to stop the increase in morbidity, then it is completely incomprehensible why, for example, a three-day disability sheet in the case of upper respiratory tract disease is given only to vaccinated persons. A person who is vaccinated is given the opportunity to go to a doctor within three days to perform a test and to stay at home during this period in order not to spread the infection, while unvaccinated persons do not have the opportunity to do so. It can therefore be concluded that the government considers that vaccinated persons are, however, more dangerous to the public than unvaccinated and that it intends to limit the spread of the virus in this way. Or, however, these amendments to the law have absolutely nothing to do with reducing the spread of infection. Please support this proposal and stop discriminating against people. Please ensure equal rights and equal social support for all groups in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U17	The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U18	Good morning, honourable Head of the sitting! Good morning, colleagues! When this pandemic began, countries, including the countries of the European Union, turned their hands into large sums of money and invested in the accounts of the manufacturers of these vaccines, so that they were developed as quickly as possible and made available to everyone. In the second phase, when the vaccines were ready, the countries recaptured large sums of money to buy the vaccines. Vaccines have now been bought, business has been built, and if we see the financial market, then we see the profit figures of vaccine manufacturers running in the sky. Is this a way to let some big companies earn at the cost of a general accident - it is a purely moral question and a question of conscience. My questions have still not been answered - since spring. In particular, I also ask professionals and scientists - how there are also appropriate therapeutic tools - which are already at the stage of approval - close to the finish - and how there is prevention in public buildings. When I talked about it, I was looked at as a fool from the fields. Perhaps, though, let us combine these funds and fight on a wider front, not just on vaccination? I call for everyone to be vaccinated, but this cannot be forced. And in this case, I believe that my colleagues' proposal to end discrimination will only reduce people's resistance to vaccination. In my opinion, our government must make it clear that vaccine manufacturers are obliged, however, not to earn on these vaccines and start thinking about the wider production of these vaccines, so that they can be made available when they are needed and not to experience what we have experienced in the spring. In my opinion, another important factor that is causing this discrimination at the moment and that makes people share, is that we are trying to create a sense of fear in people: the continuous flow of information, in which all the bad things are being promoted, is spreading the story that the people are too dull to understand that compulsory vaccination is the only way out, and this myth is artificially maintained, that only the vaccine will be saved. Only the vaccine will not be saved! Motivating people to do so for the benefit of society will be saved. This is not happening at the moment. I call, however, for my fellow Members' proposal to be supported and for the division of people between vaccinated, semi-vaccinated and unvaccinated to be stopped. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U19	I closed the debate. Will you add something else in the name of the commission? Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U20	Yeah. On behalf of the Commission, it is not possible to talk here about discrimination against unvaccinated persons, as these proposals do not prevent benefits received so far. The Commission has not supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U21	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - I will make a motion by Members Petraviča and Krapan! Please, let's vote! About - 28, against - 53, abstaining - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U22	4. - the proposal of welfare minister Gata Eglišs, which adds that the regulation also applies to those in the home quarantine. Partly supported and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U23	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U24	5. - the proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs, which is a editorial nature. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U25	Members are also in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U26	6. - the proposal of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, which clarifies point 56 of the transitional provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U27	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U28	7. - the proposal by Members Petraviča and Krapāne, which is similar to the previous one. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U29	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U30	Colleagues! I wouldn't want to repeat what has already been said, but... This is indeed a discrimination against unvaccinated people because there is a difference when receiving the disease sheet, whether they receive payment of the disease sheet A or payment of the disease sheet B. The payment of page B shall be made from the first day and the calculation of the second and third days shall be 80 per cent. On the other hand, the first day of page A is not paid and the second and third days are paid 75 per cent. So people who do the same work and who have received the same pay have to pay different sickness sheets. Similarly, the three-day allocation of disease sheets to vaccinated persons and to unvaccinated persons is not. That is also, of course, discrimination. And also - continuation of the cost of parental benefits... Therefore, vaccinated persons will be able to return to work if they cannot return to work and unvaccinated persons will not be able to do so. While looking at these issues at the meeting of the Commission, also from the Ombudsman’s Office indicated: until compulsory vaccination is required in the country for absolutely all persons, there are constitutional risks here, with such costs of benefits dividing people. It would be somewhat the same if we were to imagine paying an increased amount of sick leaves to members of any other nationality or start sorting up by political or religious origin. We have therefore put forward this proposal - to remove the words about vaccinated or overloaded persons and to ensure equal treatment for all groups of persons - as for all these benefits, it was in force until 30 June this year - and not to start sorting people here, to carry hatred between groups of society and to ensure equal treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U31	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U32	Colleagues! I will also call for support for the proposal put forward by my colleagues. I would also like to point out that the regulation you want to vote in this law on sick leave is a clear violation, because with these amendments you are trying to prioritise both disease and people who - depending on their state of health - are or are not entitled to receive a sick leave. In addition, this opinion of the doctor referred to in this draft law... Of course, this is another point which could probably be challenged in the Constitutional Court if we talk about the fact that a person's state of health must not be grounds for discrimination. You are now excellent proof of this in these amendments, which you are proposing for second reading and which you are calling for to vote on. Just as my colleague, Ramona Petraviča, has already said, it is also about child benefits. This is, of course, child discrimination. Let us remember that children’s benefits are needed so that parents can stay with their children longer and buy things for their children. In this way, you are punishing children who are absolutely not responsible for this situation in the country and for what their parents have or have not done, in your opinion, right. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U33	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so? Your comments.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U34	This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U35	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - I will make a motion by Members Petraviča and Krapan! Please, let's vote! For - 30, for - 51, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U36	8 / 8 - the proposal of welfare minister Gata Eglišs. Point 56 of the transitional provisions is more precise. Partially supported, included 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U37	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U38	9. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U39	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U40	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of welfare minister Gata Eglišs. Partially supported, included 11. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U41	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U42	11. - the proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs, which is clear. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U43	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U44	12. - the proposal of welfare minister Gata Eglišs. It is envisaged to continue granting the parental allowance from 11 October to 15 November. Partially supported, included 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U45	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U46	Colleagues! This is once again the case: a vaccinated parent will be able to claim the payment of a continuation of the parental benefit after the child reaches one or a half years of age, but the unvaccinated parent will not be able to. Parents who end up in the payout period and have to return to work, but for whom this is not possible due to the circumstances of the emergency, because they do not employ an employee, are left behind or cannot earn income from economic activity, are in exactly the same and comparable situations: either vaccinated parent or unvaccinated parent. Thus, one vaccineer extends the term for payment of the benefit, the other unvaccinated does not. This is in no way related to combating the pandemic or limiting the spread of the virus. What is the relationship between the spread of the virus and the granting or granting of the benefit? It is a political and non-discriminatory proposal. Once again, when examining this proposal in the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, the Ombudsman’s Office indicated that until compulsory vaccination in the country has been established for all persons, there are constitutional risks for the application of such a rule. Moreover, the Ministry of Welfare, when drafting the Guidelines on Social Protection and Labour Market Policy, has stressed that discrimination is not permitted under any circumstances and has explained that "equal treatment and non-discrimination mean that social protection is ensured without discrimination between persons on grounds of sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, age, health status, disability or sexual orientation, social origin, property or family status or other circumstances, and by ensuring equal opportunities for all citizens to exercise their rights and access to goods and services in all areas and situations". I would also like to remind you that the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms has been in force in Latvia since 27 June 1997. It states that ‘the exercise of these rights and freedoms shall be ensured without discrimination’. I therefore call for fundamental human rights and the rule of law to be respected. Equal treatment of all persons is crucial in this respect. The government must ensure that vaccination is voluntary, has no political, social or other pressure, and that no one is discriminated against because of his choice not only because of health risks, but also because he does not want to do so because of other circumstances. The fact of vaccination or non-vaccination affects human rights, for example when travelling by public transport, - the unvaccinated are deprived of driving charges; the fact that they become unemployed, the unvaccinated unemployed do not pay unemployment benefits for a moment, after three months, starting to pay; the entry into trade or service facilities only for vaccinated persons; the availability of benefits only for vaccinated persons; the more favourable conditions for vaccinated persons. In my view, such decisions taken by the government regarding epidemiological security are not directed... for the benefit of a person, but rather purposefully destroys the country as a whole. It is necessary to ensure equal treatment for parents who end up in child care and who have to return to work, and this discriminatory treatment cannot be applied to anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U47	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U48	Good morning, dear colleagues! Firstly, by commenting on the fact that we would have to live in a planned economy where companies do not earn through innovation and product production, I must remind my dear colleagues that we have long lived in capitalism, and the Soviet Union, including the planned economy, will not, I hope, return to Latvia. That's what it's like when it comes to... How was it... stupid from the fields. Go on. I would recommend to those colleagues who, for a long time, have sabotaged the work of the government on the need for the entire country and society... including the economy, returned to normal rails, stopped doing so. In particular, I call for this to be done by those colleagues who, using the advantages of their office, ran into vaccination without a line before, for example, teachers. As Mrs Petraviča did, for example. And to end the thing... in this hybrid war situation on the Kremlin propaganda mill, the consequences of which we are quite clearly feeling in our eastern border and eastern region right now. In this respect, I call for this proposal, given that it is partly supported (so that Members do not have a mixed head), to be 'no' to this proposal, in support of the next one - the Commission - proposal. I call on those who are accustomed to abstain in every second vote... the alternative "abstain" to this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U49	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U50	Very respectful Head of the sitting! I did not intend to apply for a debate at this point, but Mr Feldman, with his excellent argumentation, still called on me to apply. I call on other colleagues not to call the fools and to talk about the proposals. If you are talking about a planned economy and socialism and appeal to the Soviet Union, look at this year's national budget on which principles it is based before you criticise someone else. What about this budget? I cannot say that budget revenue is high enough to cover budget expenditure. I think we will still debate this in the budget debate. I call on my fellow Members to respect others. Mrs Petraviča has been very good and very concrete about the meaning of her proposal. In my opinion, it is a very prepared proposal and a speech on the substance... this issue, which is related to government policy, which is essentially in the direction of disintegrating society. The fact that the government has not managed to achieve an increase in the vaccination coverage with the resources of three billion euros, and that at present it is the seniors who should be the most and more intensive... work with him to increase the vaccination coverage... such a government stance on the issue of population sharing does not help to address this problem, that is, the fact. Therefore, I call on myself to do less with politics, so to say, with insults, but for everyone to do their job. In my opinion, Mrs Petraviča, as a Member of the opposition, is doing her job very well at the moment, pointing out the problems identified by the Ombudsman. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U51	The name to Member Ramona Petraviča for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U52	As regards the accusations about vaccination, I would like to remind you that it was the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers and was a call for each minister to vaccinate together with those working in their field. I'm absolutely not going to get vaccinated, but perhaps those who didn't get vaccinated from the UKP... you did not want AstraZeneca to be vaccinated, but you wanted to wait for another vaccine to be available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U53	I closed the debate. Madame, please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U54	This proposal is partly supported and included in proposal 13. I therefore call for a 'no' vote or for a abstain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U55	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - the proposal of the welfare minister, Eglīks! Please, let's vote! For -6, for -58, for -16. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U56	13. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It is all editorialally arranged and supported by the Commission. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U57	Let's start a debate. Name to Minister for Welfare Gatis Eglitis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U58	Good morning, colleagues! Thank you for your support for this bill. Thank you very much to the Social and Labour Commission for having been able to quickly examine these two very important support instruments, both in terms of sick leave and in terms of extending the period of parental benefit. In these circumstances, I think that these two support mechanisms are very important for both entrepreneurs and young parents. So thank you for the quick job... General disorders and Very briefly with regard to the obligation to carry out vaccination. The Latvian public administration has chosen a rational approach based on scientific opinions, facts and statistical models data. This approach, as we can see, also requires, in some cases, the restriction of personal freedoms, which is not always easy for all and not always easy. In human terms, it may be possible to understand the embarrassment and anger caused by the Covid-19 situation, including protests, but national regulations on the obligation to vaccinate against Covid-19 when employed do not change. I believe that this is the right direction, because we need to do everything, everything, everything to bring the vaccination coverage very quickly. These two decisions are today also instruments in this direction. I see that, also in a business environment, employers are working very, very hard with their team to promote the vaccination coverage, because it is clear that any sick or, let's say, changing the production line... For example, if you leave... working, it means loss of money and so on. The entrepreneurs themselves are trying to promote vaccination, and these two instruments could also help them. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U59	Thank you to the Minister for Welfare for taking part in the debate. We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U60	Colleagues, you can deceive yourself by saying that you are promoting the coverage of vaccination in this way, but the truth is that you are completely destroying the country's economy and squandering people into despair. If we talk about what Krišjānis Feldman will tell us once again, maybe Krišjānis Feldman will tell us about the Soviet Union. It may have been that Krišjānis Feldman had not experienced the times that are now read in the newspapers. I read in the newspapers, and I also read in periodical collections about how people were forced to work in colhozos in the 1960 ’ s. I was very interesting because I had to explore some personalities that I might ever tell you about. But if we were talking specifically about the Latgale case, there was a very, very common flax industry in Latgale and people who had their own linen fields were forced...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U61	Mrs Stepanenko, please excuse me, but we are currently debating 13. - a proposal from the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U62	Yeah, that's right. If you let me finish that idea, then you will understand what I'm talking about. They were forced to share in the work for the common good. We can read some evidence of how people were persuaded to devote their health to a common work in the name of the common good. And here we see the analogy, now we also come to the conclusion that I wanted to tell you. We see that this analogy is very, very similar to what we are hearing today. The rhetoric we hear today is very similar. Perhaps Mr Feldman has not really studied this page of history, maybe Mr Feldman seems to be saving the economy in this way, but at the same time we are witnessing the fact that, in fact, the Soviet Union is returning (as it is going back), and those people who have not learned that history, who have not understood how such action can distort the whole life of a man, are probably unaware of it. That is why I would like to invite Mr Feldman to read the history pages... read the periodicals, read the newspapers, where people were thrilled to tell them how good they were to work together in the colhoza, and how bad are those who are selfishly, guided only by their own interests, do not go to work on the linen field and don’t put their health and life together. It's very similar... This is very similar to what we have to hear today. This draft law, which has been created by disgusting violations of human rights and also the protection of children's rights, is one example of how badly the government of today is doing wrong, how badly the coalition is doing. I call for this proposal not to be supported. In general, this draft law must not be voted on by 'non-voting', but must be rejected, as it is once again an ongoing discrimination against people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U63	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U64	There will be a call again from my side, this time not to spread disinformation about the growth or ingrowth of the economy. It should be reported that in September Latvijas Banka increased the forecast for GDP growth (compared to the previous year) to 5.3 percent. At present, despite the locdaun, we can expect that GDP will continue its growth path, say, and that these five percent will be achieved this year, and if society as a whole is responsible, including vaccination, and entrepreneurs will also continue to promote vaccination, the growth of GDP will be five per cent next year. In addition, I would like to rebut disinformation about exports as well. This year's exports increased by 20 percent compared to the previous year. I would like to remind you that it is exports, so the mass of money that flows into the Latvian economy is a society... the basic welfare of the country. I call on Members of the Saeima to refrain from disseminating disinformation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U65	The name to Member Karin Scratch. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U66	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Head of sitting! It is, of course, very difficult to concentrate and follow the agenda, starting with the sabotage from Soviet times (unobtrusive.) ... and exports... because we are looking at amendments to the law on maternity and sickness insurance. About what the Minister for Welfare said. Thank you for the versions, but when you talk about the versions, I think it's just 10-20 steps back. We are trying to support women through small, small steps over 30 years, to support employers, to support workers to get closer to the development of the Nordic countries, regardless of whether we simply want our economies to grow, so that people have security and are willing to work here and create something. But what made me very sad is the previous proposal: that of women on parental leave... This is simply discrimination of this kind. If we tried to protect, support and even protect these women through the Labour Act, it is stipulated that if the woman continues... I have to understand that a woman in a year's time, despite her coming back to work... Perhaps not on your own initiative, there are simply circumstances where you need to continue working to feed your children to support your children... and in parallel she continues breast-feeding... Despite the fact that she goes to work and the Labour Law protects her, the employer even expects her working time to be reduced without changing the average profit... But what are we doing? If she has not been vaccinated - apologies, we will not grant them! But of those recommendations on Covid-19, written by the World Health Organization. They write that there are no data available on the safety of Covid-19 vaccines during breast-feeding or in breast-feeding infants. However, Covid-19 is not expected to be at risk for the breast-feeding child. And the benefits of breastfeeding are well known. Therefore, JCVI has been recommended that the vaccine may be given during breast-feeding. This is in line with the recommendations made by the US and received from the World Health Organisation. If you are breast-feeding, you may decide to wait until you have finished breast-feeding and then receive the vaccine. But we won't wait! We will create the conditions for women to make a choice! And what choice? Just 10 and 20 steps back. Thank you to the Minister for Welfare, thank you to the UKP, thank you to this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U67	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U68	Thank you. Listening to Mr Feldman's reports in figures, I would like to point out that Mr Feldman probably did not think that these statistics were collected before the introduction of compulsory vaccination in a country that started almost a few weeks ago. This means that the information provided by Mr Feldman is unbiased and is currently being deinformationd by Mr Feldman himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U69	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U70	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Colleagues! I have no idea why, when it comes to these proposals, there is suddenly a wide debate about the growth, disinformation and so on of gross domestic product. Looking at the agenda... forward, if we are so much, so to say, warm up to this bill, then it will be interesting when we finish. But with regard to GDP, in response to what Mr Feldman said, colleagues, 13. During the Saeima, our delay from Estonia in measuring gross domestic product has remained the same as it was before 13. The Saeima, in turn, our gap from Lithuania, has increased by almost 50 percent when it comes to gross domestic product per capita. 13. During the Saeima! And certainly not a small part of the growth in gross domestic product in these years came from the huge borrowing that this government created over the course of four years, increased debt, created debt that is higher than in Estonia over 30 years. Yes, of course, gross domestic product is growing, exports are growing, but everything, colleagues, is relatively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U71	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U72	Thank you. Colleagues! I also had the motivation to reflect on the remarks and comments made by Mr Feldman when it comes to increasing the scope of maternity and sickness insurance. What do I mean? Mr. Dombrovskis very rightly stressed... notes that GDP growth does not in itself show anything. But the level of growth in the well-being of the population or the level of quality of life... key word here is the quality of life... the population... Level 2... shows GDP per capita. Latvia, by GDP per capita, remains in one of the last places among the Member States of the European Union for a long time, or exactly in the third place below - there is only Bulgaria behind Latvia and, if I am not wrong, Romania. This indicator shows well-being, well-being of the household. The well-being of the household is also demonstrated by the health status of the population or the quality of life or which can be afforded, for example, by the family in Varakļāni and which can be afforded by Mr. Feldman's family in Riga. And I guess its options will be very different between the Varakļāni family, for example, from the farm income, and Mr Feldman, who lives from the Member's salary, from the commission head's salary and so on, and so on. And then it forms an average of GDP. But by GDP, average per capita and household, we see that during these 15 years, the health status of the population, the ability of the population to turn to doctors, go on visits... Ensuring quality care, investigations and timely medical services for citizens has not improved. From this we also see all its consequences this time in the context of a severe disease process, the fact that hospitals with a severe disease... To say, the complications are over-exploited, because people were not able to turn to the medical profession for a long time and could not provide quality for their lives. That is why there are also the mortality results as they are, or first of all, among the Member States of the European Union. All in all, the problem. This attempt to reduce and differentiate between sickness benefits that are not paid will in general also reflect the state of health of both families and people. It is also clear from this that, in fact, the effect may not be positive, but negative, because people with poor health will suffer even more from this crisis. So we do not need to talk about the bare numbers - GDP growth... what seems to grow - because it's all relatively: GDP per capita... the well-being of the population in Varakļāi, Viļaka or some other more remote place will not differ at all next year, or in the previous or previous year. Why? Because inflation and financial investment in construction only provides income growth for the governing politicians, officials and businesses that are close to them, and not for improving the overall health of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U73	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U74	Perhaps there will be some record in this debate, how much disinformation I have to deny. First of all, the good news is that according to World Bank data, from 2000, when GDP per capita in Latvia was about USD 3.5 thousand, until now... last year, when GDP per capita was 17.5 thousand US dollars... Then it's a five-fold increase, five-- Five times increased! It said it hadn't grown. I'm talking... So five times in 20 years. Secondly, it concerns health objectively. Of course, the health of Latvian citizens is deteriorating especially at this time. Unfortunately, this is the problem that the Latvian Government is fighting at the moment in an attempt to ensure that the hospital and all other health care sectors are relieved as much as possible, and why, of course, there is also justified constructive pressure on the need of members of society to protect their own health, including by vaccination. Unfortunately, the fact that a large part of society, for various reasons - whether it is under the influence of propaganda or, let us say, of disinformation - chooses not to protect itself and, of course, leaves the impression on people who have fully cooperated with the country, have met all the necessary requirements and who pay, by the way, taxes to get healthcare quality. This is exactly what we are dealing with right now. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U75	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov. Please! Nikolai... Lubov Schvecova? I'm sorry, I didn't. The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U76	A brief sign of misinformation and deception. GDP data per capita for the previous year are not publicly available and have not yet been calculated. The latest data, according to the methodology for calculating GDP per capita, are only available for 2019 and Latvia is measured against other Member States of the European Union. It must also be understood that there are lies, big lies and statistics, and depending on who translates statistics, then there is either reality or disinformation. In this case, I see and see misinformation in Mr Feldman's words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U77	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U78	Colleagues! I would like to remind you that, just a few weeks ago, Feldman, the Chairman of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, together with the Minister for Welfare, visited Eglīte and advertised this shop without masks. By this they contributed to the influx of rows, and people are now standing - thousands of people, long lines... They're standing there for hours without masks. It seems to me that the head of the commission and the minister should also have a fundamental responsibility that they actually contributed to people's morbidity through their activities. And that's disinformation. That is the false news you are talking about now, Mr. Feldman! I think you have no conscience. I will not vote in favour of your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U79	I closed the debate. Please, will you add something on behalf of the Commission, Mrs. Zalīte-Gross?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U80	On behalf of the Commission, this proposal was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U81	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs! Please, let's vote! For - 51, for -9, for -17. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U82	Thank you. All the proposals have been examined. I call for support for the draft law at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U83	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance” at second, final reading! Please, let's vote! For - 59, for - 7, for - 17. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on communicableity Management”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U84	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! In total, 27 proposals were received in this draft law. They were examined, of course, for moments with sharp discussions, but let's get everyone on the table, and I'll tell you accordingly. 1. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Let's see... more precisely, clarify the scope of the law and determine how Covid-19 works during the spread of infection and provides services to public administrations and institutions and how it is done by private individuals. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U85	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U86	2. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. Provides: “The Prime Minister is responsible for managing the spread of Covid-19 infection by creating a unified and coherent work of the Cabinet of Ministers.” This proposal has not been supported by the Commission and has been rejected, given that the proposal already covers self-evident, existing cases.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U87	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U88	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Colleagues! Correctly mentioned: it is obvious things, but it is in this law - Covid-19 for the management of the spread of infection - that I think it should be strengthened and I will explain why. This proposal also relates to my next proposal, which states that it is the head of government who is responsible to the Saeima for overcoming the Covid-19 pandemic as the main person responsible. At the moment we see that there are different formal groups, an operational management group led by Mr Citskovsky, the Head of the State Chancellery, who are, by nature, subordinate to the Prime Minister. We also see that two years... Now it is the second year, the second winter is approaching when there is a Covid-19 pandemic, and only a few weeks ago, the Prime Minister thought that we should talk to medical organisations at a time when the Minister of his Government is asked to have a depression, which we will also talk about today. The entire time of asking for this resignation has shown how important and important such a proposal is. Colleagues! We now have a head of government looking at our minister, we do not understand what he is doing, we are looking for justifications for the government's failure, and we have a health minister looking at the head of government and the whole fault of the government that the government has not been accepted, has not listened, has not yet done anything. This approach is unacceptable to me. And I think that this approach is also unacceptable for colleagues that we may have a situation in times of crisis, that as if we formally have the head of the crisis rules, but if we look at the Covid-19 crisis management and those responsible, we are in a situation where no one is responsible for anything in this country. Nobody! That is why I, my fellow Members, call for the proposal to support, to include in the law the fact that it is the head of government who is responsible for what is going on in crisis management. No one else - neither the Minister for Health, nor the Minister for Agriculture, nor the Minister for Culture, nor the Minister for Economics, or knows who - it is the Head of Government! The Head of Government must be responsible for overcoming the crisis. Colleagues! At this point in time, I think that this is definitely not the case. You see a debate in the public space. We hear that the political representatives are accusing, talking to health organisations, that one is addressing the entire government, and another is accusing the Minister of Health, namely, that witch hunts are taking place. Who then really is responsible for the fact that we now have a home sitting in the country, that there is an abnormal health situation in the country, that planned health measures have been suspended at a time when from June the experts were governments, namely governments, including the heads of government, warned about what will happen in the autumn if they are not adopted... A determined course of action? There has not been decisive action at the moment... We are now seeing the result of this indecision. And we also see that, politically, no one is ready to take responsibility for this. What I want to achieve with this proposal is also to say that it is really Daniel Pavilut that is not the only one responsible. Perhaps we should look at the direction of the head of the government itself, who is now trying to avoid all possible methods, threatening the coalition partners that they are not going to work in the government, yet they still know how to hold on to that position. I do not think this is acceptable. This set of proposals, which I have tabled, only provides for one thing: to make it clear to the Saeima that the management of Covid-19 infection is the responsibility of the Prime Minister and no one else. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U89	I closed the debate. Please, Mr. Rancan, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U90	Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission. The proposal was not supported. I call for this not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U91	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Valaina's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U92	Next - 3. - Mr Valaina's proposal. It's very similar. Thus, the draft law will be supplemented: “The Prime Minister shall preside over the crisis management board and shall be responsible to the Saeima for its work.” This proposal was also not supported by the Commission for the reason that already existing legislation, to be precise, in Article 23.2 of the National Security Act, states precisely and clearly: “The crisis management board is chaired by the Prime Minister.” On the other hand, for the moment of responsibility, for the fact that he is in charge of the Saeima - I think exactly the same thing as before: the obvious thing that arises from everything else. This proposal is therefore not supported. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U93	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U94	4. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. Invites to exclude from the draft law Article 4 on the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to set limits on assembly. Of course, such a proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U95	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U96	Colleagues, when this draft law came to the Saeima on 29 May 2020, which provided additional powers for the Cabinet of Ministers to impose restrictions, indeed, as Mr Rancana mentioned, also in the annotation - and also in all the debates and understandings - it was written that these restrictions, which the Cabinet of Ministers wants to maintain after the end of the emergency situation (as we remember, soon thereafter the emergency situation was lifted)... These restrictions were necessary in order to hold people's freedom a little further, if I may say so, with regard to assembly. And the main emphasis was on it. Already then, of course, individual Members... I am, among other things, the first to oppose the fact that such rights restricting freedom, which are widely interpreted, should not be enshrined in this law, because the Cabinet of Ministers should clearly define what the Cabinet of Ministers may do, what the Cabinet of Ministers can determine precisely, but now we see that this extensive delegation has been overeigned in a completely new regulation. This is the second alternative regulation of the emergency, which has been alongside us all this time until the next order of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Emergency. We already see that these powers, which were given to the Cabinet of Ministers, are no longer talking only about gathering people. These mandates include everything, including the right to restrict the right of persons to work and the right to work. We saw that thanks to the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which have been issued, honourable colleagues, on the basis of this article, there was also a first attack on the pillar of labour legal relations, talking about suspensions and dismissals. Therefore, my fellow Members, I would ask you to consider very seriously the possibility of taking a look at this regulation, which is still in force, and to consider whether this regulation - we are talking about Article 4 - is in line with the Constitution and the principle of separation of powers. As we can see, the Saeima has repeatedly pointed out that the Saeima would itself be ready to decide on softening or abolishing these restrictions. As an example in this case, the Saeima's decision last... Thus, on 28 January this year, in which the Saeima unanimously decided that children's sport should be returned to everyday life, thus trying to point out to the Cabinet that these regulations, these prohibitions, should really be reviewed. Members of the parliamentary opposition have also repeatedly tried to point out to their coalition colleagues that various other restrictions - both on trade and on the provision of services - would be transparent. And it was clear that too... For example, the same case of terraces, which our President has also made clear, was a clear signal that the Saeima can itself impose and lift restrictions, as the Saeima can decide, because we see that the Saeima is now very mobile in its decisions. If, on 29 May last year, this Covide's bill came to the Saeima at a time when it was only the fourth meeting of the e-Parliament and no one really knew how e-Parliament would work, whether there would be really serious disruptions at work, or whether there would be problems, now we see that the Saeima can meet at any time within 15 minutes and decide on any question. Therefore, colleagues, I call on you, as well as those colleagues from the opposition, who are thinking whether we should ask the Constitutional Court about the justification for restricting this right, but to reconsider their decisions and make a perhaps the only right decision in this case, if we are talking about your responsibility to the public. These restrictions, which are produced by the Cabinet of Ministers on the basis of this extensive mandate, are not legitimate. I call on you to vote... at least this time, to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U97	I closed the debate. Please, Mr. Rancan, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U98	Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission. I call for this proposal to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U99	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! On -11, against -69, refraining from -1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U100	5. - Ivars Zarins' proposal. It is about the process of vaccination taking into account existing health systems, family medical practices and regulations. In the Commission, this proposal is not supported, given that the healthcare system already in place... including family doctor practice... the vaccination is carried out.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U101	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U102	Good afternoon, everybody! However, I will point out that the rapporteur does not interpret my proposal in a precise and, in essence, completely erroneous manner. So let me explain what the proposal is about. I already tabled this proposal in the previous draft law in summer... In the draft law that the coalition refused to move forward, however, this proposal is still very topical. The nature of this is as follows: The vaccination process shall be designed in such a way that the existing healthcare system, in particular family doctor practice, is used as efficiently as possible, with appropriate funding. Additional solutions outside the existing healthcare system can only be implemented now and only for as long as they are justified in carrying out these intended tasks. That is why such an amendment is necessary? So, despite the fact that our healthcare system is really involved and taken over by this fight against the spread of the communal infection, unfortunately, we see that the decisions needed to enable our healthcare system to function as effectively as possible and to combat this plague are not being taken. Still, even when it comes to family doctor practice, family doctors have not been given the opportunity to fight more effectively with the same thing... ensuring the same vaccination process. They are still not provided with the required funding to provide any additional assistance. We hear sad stories again: the Minister for Health tells us how he is still fighting for this sector, how he is trying to attract the necessary funding and how the government is not doing it. It would then be right for us, as legislator, to resolve this dispute. If we believe that it is really necessary for the existing healthcare system to function more effectively and deal with this plague, we are legitimising this principle, otherwise what we see... There is a reasonable fear that what the Minister for Health is doing to a large extent... Instead of taking care of the more efficient work of the existing health care system, he creates new, expensive solutions. In particular, some vaccination centres were formed, which for a long time stood half-empty, some new IT solutions (for millions!) , which, as we see then, are not really compatible with other solutions and do not really function, do not do the things that they should do, to which they were intended - even for the same effective communication, the exchange of information between the public and the relevant health infrastructure units. All this is not happening, but millions are being spent. These millions do not go where they could work most effectively, for example, on family doctor practices. I am therefore very surprised that the Commission has not supported such a proposal. Unfortunately, I am only surprised because I learned about this committee meeting, unfortunately, only after it had happened. This is another proof of how democratically and legally we decide on essential issues in our country. Colleagues! I call on you to reflect - you who have rejected this proposal - and, hearing all this, to support this proposal, because this proposal is already necessary for you, first and foremost, so that you can put in place some sort of order there, in a coalition, and make sense to start looking for the solutions that the whole society is waiting for from you. But you can't do that when you're dissipating and redistributing the benefits between you. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U103	I closed the debate. Mr Rancan, do you want to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U104	Nothing will be added on behalf of the Commission. Having also heard the views of representatives of the Ministry of Health, the proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U105	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Member Zarin's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 25, for - 56, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U106	6. - Ivars Zarins' proposal. Very similar to the previous proposal... Mr Zarins believes that he knows better about the need to organise the vaccination process than the particular health sector and proposes that the Cabinet lays down the arrangements for family doctor practices to provide additional vaccination options and these additional funding opportunities. This proposal was rejected after hearing the representatives of the health sector within the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U107	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U108	Of course, it is very good to hear that someone knows better than I do, what I think and how I believe. It seems that it could be a brand of the New Conservative Party - that you know better about others what they think and what they are talking about. But I would ask everyone to answer for their words, and for their works, and for their proposals. My proposal is about something quite different: about what you are unable to deal with. In particular, I propose that if it is already the case that the Minister for Health is unable, or that you are unable, with the Minister for Health, to make clear what he can do, what he cannot do and what the priorities of this sector are, then it is the Cabinet of Ministers, which will develop and determine the arrangements for family doctor practice to provide additional vaccination opportunities. Why am I talking about this? Because... If you listened yesterday, for example, to the long-awaited, long-awaited programme “What’s going on in Latvia?” ... I think it would be very useful for you – to listen to what is happening in Latvia, because it looks like you really live in parallel reality. In that show... Family doctors will show you that this is still the government, this power does not provide the family doctors with the support they need to carry out the vaccination process. I do not know whether this is related to the incompetentness or impotence of the health minister on his questions or to the government's unwillingness to help the health sector to work effectively. In support of such a proposal, it would be clear who is responsible. It is the Cabinet of Ministers, which should lay down specific rules for this order to work, because otherwise... As we can see, this government is unable to do anything, it is unable to make any decisions. If you were to support this proposal, at least there would be a clear procedure on the basis of which family doctors would be able to carry out their work effectively and with full capacity to carry out the vaccination process. For your sake, it is not possible for them to do this at the moment, and this was confirmed yesterday, in the evening programme that I mentioned. So I am calling for this proposal to be supported if, indeed, vaccination is important for you, not to make quivers and divide society here again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U109	I closed the debate. For the Commission, Mr Ranzan... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U110	On behalf of the Commission, I would just add that these proposals have been discussed very carefully. And, after hearing the experts concerned, this proposal was not supported. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U111	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Member Zarin's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 26, for - 54, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U112	7. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. She called for the exclusion of Article 6.9 of the law, which deals with the whole of this vaccination certificate... in principle the substance. This proposal was, of course, rejected after hearing both experts and the institutions present within the Commission. As such, we already have such a concept of vaccination certificates, and we are still here.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U113	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U114	Colleagues! This is the story of current lies and deception. When these so-called green certificates were introduced at European level this summer, at the beginning of the summer (and MEPs from Latvia also voted in favour of introducing these certificates), the condition was very clear: these certificates are intended for travel, so these certificates should only be used for travel. However, there should be specific regulation on certificates to be used at national level. As we can see, everything in this verse is, of course, mixed in one foam, if you can say so. These certificates, in my opinion, are being abused at national level in order to sort people, deny them legal income and pay taxes, and receive benefits, and continue to live in their beloved home country. Therefore, my proposal is to review this whole situation with regard to certificates, to allow the use of these certificates, as the European Union has intended - for travel - but not for sorting people, not for discrimination against people and further destruction, so that Mr Feldman can then read with great shame the very bad figures next year, which would indicate a fall in our economy. I call on you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U115	I closed the debate. For the Commission, Mr Ranzan... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U116	Nothing will be added on behalf of the Commission. I call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U117	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 23, for - 57, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U118	8 / 8 - Ivars Zarins' proposal. It is a proposal that has already been made many times and it is about making these certificates safe... Could also use antibody level... Mr. Zarina also proposes to the Cabinet of Ministers to determine the procedure for using such certificates... i.e. the movement of these certificates, which would be linked... There was a discussion on this in the Commission (which has already been a discussion with professionals and those familiar with these cases in the past) and the decision is that the proposal should be rejected. And this proposal was rejected. All right.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U119	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U120	Yeah... Thank you to the rapporteur. This time, a correct report on my proposal. Indeed, the substance of this proposal has not changed since I presented it for the first time since the summer. I think that is very reasonable and necessary, and I will explain why. So we are really talking about the fact that the possibility of obtaining a certificate based on the appropriate level of antibodies should also be envisaged. Why is this necessary? One reason is that in this way we provide a wider scope... with people who are rightfully safe, epidemiologically safe because they objectively... rather than following formal procedures, it is objectively evident that they need antibody levels, or the necessary resistance to this infection. The other thing is why it's very important. There are very many people who are ill and who have the relevant levels of antibodies, but formally now they are required to get this certificate; they must go to vaccination, but in fact, they may not only need this vaccine at the time, but may even be harmful to health. But on the existing regulation... as it is... So the power of the law forces them to take action that can be harmful to them, and this brings resistance to the vaccination process again. Therefore, it would be logical and reasonable to foresee this possibility of antibody levels... that using antibody levels, a person can obtain this certificate. In order to prevent the risks that are being discussed and the moments of uncertainty that, you know, yes, we do not really know for how long their certificates can be submitted in the case in question, and that... whether it happens to him that now it is, in a short time, will not be, and yet he will prove to be, uncertain, that is why I propose that the Cabinet lays down rules and procedures, determining where and for how long this certificate is granted. Like in Lithuania. There this situation is solved well; there is no certificate if this health... if this moment of infection is not official, documented, it shall be served, in my opinion, for a period of two months. Not for half a year, but for two months. But for a man, it's already a chance to work... and the possibility for the authority to act responsibly on its own. After these two months, he may go again to check the level of antibodies, to conclude what its dynamics are and, in accordance with the rules established by the Cabinet of Ministers, to obtain an extension of the validity of this certificate. I think it is a very logical, very reasonable and very necessary proposal! I would really like to hear the arguments why this proposal has been rejected. I'll turn to those who are going to... many are going to... Vote Against: Do you understand what responsibility do you take? Because we're talking about the health of many people now... and perhaps also the risks to their lives if we do not solve this problem that is currently real to our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U121	Mr Pucene, would it be enough for you to have two minutes in the debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U122	Yeah, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U123	The name of Member Eric Pucen. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U124	Hello, dear colleagues! We, the Group of Members, have already tabled this proposal on several occasions and have pointed out this problem. However, in the Commission, we have only heard reservations that there are not enough studies from which these antibodies work. Well, then, I call on the ruling coalition to study, not salad recipes, but the thing that needs to be studied. Rather than just throwing money in the paper basket, but researching the community, researching these antibodies so that people can get these certificates. But maybe they, the ruling coalition, are not at all good, and they want people to be further divided - vaccinated and unvaccinated? Is that perhaps even beneficial to them? It is a great pleasure that my colleague has also raised this issue. I think in time we'll also get... when there will be enough studies from other countries and when these antibodies will be recognised, then we will be able to turn to the ruling coalition and point out that there have already been solutions. If there were such a certificate for antibodies, then I would allow people to be more tolerant of these cooperatives too, because they would see that their arguments are also being heard. There are enough people who are ill without registration, and now they see that they have these antibodies - that they do not, for example, become infected by meeting with people who have been infected and they do not become ill either. It is not understandable, then, why these people are denied access to employment, work, and family security. This is not correct and correct. I therefore call for support to be given to the colleague's proposal. I hope that, in time, we will come to the conclusion that certificates will be issued for people who have these antibodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U125	Dear colleagues, A break must be announced in our debate. Even before Members register, I would like to inform you that we can congratulate yesterday's anniversary, John Adamson, on his half-circle anniversary. We welcome her and want her health. This is also the case with the registration of the presence of Members. It's over. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U126	Dear Members and honourable Members, We shall continue the examination of the agenda of the remote extraordinary sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 4 November 2021. Under the heading ‘Review of draft laws’, the draft law ‘Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection’ is examined. A debate on 8 has been launched. - the proposal tabled by Member Ivars Zarins. So we are continuing this debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please! ( Pause) Mr Dombrovskis has not joined the sitting. Member Vitalieus Orlovs took part in the next debate. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U127	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Good afternoon, colleagues! I call on you to support the proposal made by Member Ivars Zarins. And why I do it - more than 10 thousand signatures have already been collected on the ManaBalss.lv portal. So we will look at this issue in Parliament, whether it is in the near future. And we cannot ignore people who have a very serious and important problem. I call on you to support the proposal made by Member Ivars Zarins, in order not to waste time and to address this issue by discussing this issue in the commissions and in the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U128	We are continuing the debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U129	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Colleagues and colleagues! I also call for support for this proposal. I call on you to support this, both because the "Republic" party has already done so several times... In the context of Members... has submitted as a proposal and has waited for discussion, for business discussions as well as for several other reasons. First. The European Union's institutions, in which we are members and participate, are already discussing this issue, and to some extent there is also an indication that the issue of antibodies is an object on which countries can definitely think and act at national level. Secondly. Our neighbour Lithuania probably also... supporting employers and their economic development... not only the growth of GDP, but economic development, supporting real economic activity, such experience is already being implemented in action. If I may, then those who go to Lithuania in the context of the Baltic Assembly are invited to learn... in shells, if not in official working order... learn the experience of Lithuanian colleagues - how they implement it. This is likely to be useful for us at work and will bring more real benefits than... perhaps other issues that will be discussed in the assembly. So I call on my colleagues to talk about the recognition of antibodies at national level so that people can work. Thirdly. There has never been real discussion in the Commission on this matter. Although the head of the commission refers to the fact that he has invited experts, they are, to be honest, only officials of the ministries, especially officials of the Ministry of Health. They say that everything is fine, no necessary action is needed, because everything has already been resolved and so on. In the Commission, experts are not invited and not present, and in essence there is no discussion about the mention of such antibodies in the relevant laws of Latvia to ensure economic activity. Probably to call experts... There may also be other problems or other prejudices, because you have, of course, not adequately increased funding for higher education or science in the budget that we are going to discuss, so that it would be quite a way of showing, perhaps, your attitude towards science. Yes, no relevant experts are invited to the Commission dealing with scientifically sound proposals or proposals for scientific feasibility. So I call on the chairman of the commission in future discussions, because this law will certainly be discussed several times more, and really experts rather than ministerial officials will be invited. Fourth. We know that the Ministry of Health, in several cases of contentious issues, forms a consilium that seems to be working, but actually... It's probably a problem for the Ministry of Health... In this case, it may be necessary to decide in which cases the indicated amount of antibodies or a small number of antibodies are taken into account or not taken into account. I would like to say that in Latvia - at least formally - an institutional structure has already been created, which could say whether the antibody indicator is to be used in some of the relevant decisions or not. And five. In my opinion, the proposal makes it very clear that the Cabinet can also talk about this issue in its own order. And it would seem interesting to the Ministry of Welfare, first of all, because it is responsible for employment, and the Ministry of Economics, which is responsible for economic development. Thus, most likely, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Welfare and the Ministry of Economics cooperate at this moment... And in the context of officials... Inviting direct experts, including epidemiologists and people who can answer scientific questions about antibodies and their significance, it is possible to make decisions and create appropriate procedure for doing so by the Cabinet of Ministers. This proposal is indeed to be supported, because it would really support scientific achievements, support the recommendations of the European institutions and support the interests of the people of Latvia by... based also on the experience of neighbouring countries, giving the opportunity to work. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U130	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U131	Dear President, Dear colleagues, I also clearly join my colleagues in calling for support for the proposal in question... especially when it comes to determining the extent of antibodies in the body and the natural ability to protect the body from Covid-19 infection. In this respect, by the way, I also wrote a letter to our Minister for Health relatively recently, on 21 September: how many people have been hospitalised, and how many people have died, who have previously been overloaded by the Covid-19? What are the data? What the Minister for Health officially answered was that of people tested between 1 January and 31 August this year... Of the 15 patients who had previously reported congestion, 15 have been hospitalized and four have died. In other words, if we look at these absolute figures, people who have successfully survived the first time Covid-19 and who have fixed antibodies in the body are protected from severe illness or death more effectively than after pure... vaccines. There are also our own, Latvian, researchers and doctors who professionally invite to this discussion - that at a certain amount of antibodies in the body you do not need to necessarily go after an additional dose of vaccine. I understand that there is a certain problem with determining how long this certificate is to be issued, how long these antibodies protect you, but we see statistics, we hear what the President of the Latvian Academy of Sciences says, we know what other specialists say... and calls on people who have stabbed so that they can work normally unless there are any other circumstances why they can't really do this... whether they should be given this vaccine to some known... at a certain reduction in the amount of these substances in their body... It is therefore very important that this proposal be approved, so that the Cabinet of Ministers has a clear task from our parliament... together with our scientists to set this specific indicator - which indicator and for how long it is possible for a person to get a QR code... that he can normally participate in everyday life... We know that this person is protected, he has to some extent been successfully overloaded, he has these natural antibodies, in fact, has natural immunity. And if we hear what the world says... Among other things, one of the managers of the “Pfizer” company, one of the directors, is that natural immunity with antibodies is the best one that can protect people, better than any vaccine... If there are no these antibodies and this natural immunity, of course, it is a vaccine and a compulsory vaccine that protects the person, but if a person is overloaded, then it is very important to come opposite and to say honestly that to some... and which parameters do not require vaccination. But it really is a task for the Cabinet of Ministers. The Cabinet, together with experts, can also determine the amount of these specific antibodies in the human body and also discuss this time. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U132	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U133	Thank you. Dear President, Colleagues! You know that when the development of vaccines started, one of the indicators that was considered to be an optimal indicator of immunity was the level of antibodies in the body. This was the subject of a campaign to promote vaccination. It was considered to be the only objective indicator that also helps to determine the level of immunity. As a person who has vaccinated and then overloaded the community in time, I have a number of questions. Question one. The quarantine was over. Under the new rules, I don't even have to do a test, a normal test, an infection that I still have or have not. I am not talking about the fact that no one can tell me whether or not there are serious levels of antibodies in the body, or whether or not I need a third graft. These are all issues that affect not only me, as the statistics show that the number of people who are vaccinated with the community is increasing. This means that this problem is becoming acute not only from the point of view of issuing the certificate, but also from the general immunity of the public, without which it is impossible to combat this infection. The first thing that would be necessary is, of course, that we should support this proposal, because the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers are hardly a means of determining or not the level of antibodies in the body or otherwise. But it is a tool for this discussion to move from the theoretical plate to the practical level, because it really is very important to choose the right way to go further by fighting this virus. It will certainly not only require theoretical research and theoretical debate, it will also require a number of practical things. How to determine and how will the testing of these antibodies be carried out in the body? What and how, and how, will these studies be carried out? And only the next question is: how long does the level of antibodies in the body last? And only then does it appear necessary to use or not use this instrument for the issue of a certificate. Therefore, I am pleased to support this proposal, however, given not only its usefulness, but also the possibility of a sufficiently forward-looking and forward-looking solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U134	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U135	Dear President, Dear colleagues, This is not the first time such a proposal is made. As colleagues have said, this has already been presented twice by the members of the "Republic" party. And every time, this time too, we see that there is such absolute silence on the part of Members of the position. That's an absolute vacuum. That is, of course, a negative attitude. That's why we're talking here, of course... I assume that the Members of the position are listening to this, but by large, of course, it is much broader for the audience. Here's my colleague, first point. Until now, no one in his common sense has denied the natural immunity created by flaking. I stress that it has been designed in the form of flaking, not one that has always existed. That's one. The government does not deny this either. Two points. There have been many cases of overloading, for which the right paperwork was not arranged. Either it happened, as they say, asymptomatically, or people responded to the government’s call to stay at home and did not go to the doctor, or did not go to the community. And so - there was a study that still in September showed that antibodies were some 23 percent of the Latvian population, despite the fact that about seven-eight percent had officially shrunk at that time. Hence, there are many such people. For them, the official answer from the government is totally rebuttal in the fact that they have developed natural immunity. That's the answer: you have to vaccinate. It is logical that these people ask the question: if I have shrunk (which can be demonstrated by the presence of this antibody in my blood, which can be shown in the test), why do I have to vaccinate? And then these people start to watch, they start to look (now anyone with the phone and with access to the Internet can find much) what science says about this. And then they realize that... probably find... A Harvard Epidemiologist who says that natural immunity is as good as the immunity that must be derived from the vaccine, and it is possible to find Harvard Epidemiologist who says the opposite - no, better vaccinate even if you are overloaded. They will also understand very quickly that it is possible to find research, such as a study from Israel, which says that immunity obtained by flaking is as good as that obtained from the Pfizer vaccine. Israel mainly ‘Pfizer’ vaccines. And it's possible to find... A recent study from the United States, which says that those who have been vaccinated are five times less likely to re-occur the community than those who have previously been overloaded. How do they conclude that... So scientists have different researches that say different things, different scientists that say different things. And if the government takes such a negative attitude, many of these people will really start to believe in conspiracy theories that, behold, all this is to make Big Pharma earn more. Consequently, such a rejection of the coalition, on the part of the government, will only increase the number of anti-vaccines with those people who have shrunk. This is not a constructive approach, and the result is what we see, where you blame doctors, where you blame the people and so on. But that is the real reason, colleagues, for your short-sightedness, which you can correct by supporting this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U136	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U137	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will not repeat those arguments - in my view, very convincing arguments - in favour of this proposal, which has already been put forward in this debate. I really have to agree with Mr Dombrovskis - it is a pity that the opponents of this proposal remain silent and do not raise any objections. Of course, we know very well that immunity is formed both after overloading and after vaccination. Unfortunately, we can see very well that these immunitys become weaker over time, both after overloading and after vaccination. However, for certificates obtained by humans after flaking, the period of validity shall be six months, and for certificates after vaccination, the duration of validity shall not be longer than six months. And here I see some contradictions. On the one hand, there are quite a lot of cases... I know that any of you get complaints and complaints from people about how a person is overloaded, six months later, he goes to his doctor, and the doctor says: “You know, you have a very high antibody rate, I do not recommend you to vaccinate for the time being.” But since six months have passed, the person will be unvaccinated and thus not count safely with all the resulting restrictions, although vaccination, as Mr. Zarins rightly pointed out, may be useless and even dangerous for the person concerned. And in fact, the law does not provide any means to get out of this situation. On the other hand, we see, as Mr Dolgopolova rightly pointed out, that vaccinated people are also becoming increasingly ill, and this is not surprising, because indeed its immunity becomes weaker. Unfortunately, mass vaccination in the summer failed to organise, so people are increasingly at risk of disease despite being vaccinated in the spring. But they will count safely, and they are not subject to any restrictions. Therefore, of course, legislation is now based on purely formal indicators, which are very approximate. Why six months, why is it out of time? That is, in fact, a political decision. Indeed, it is not easy, and we are not going to pretend that we are ready to offer certain recipes. Of course, it is known that antibody tests are based on very different methodologies and actually determine very different indicators, but yet there is already a universal standard for antibody indicators - the so-called BAL. Of course, I am not an expert and I am not going to teach anyone, but with interest we can see that the trend is, however, clear and, in fact, much better to ensure safety on the basis of objective indicators. Yes, it is much more complicated, and that is why this proposal, Mr Zarins, is recommending to start this work and to ask the government to do so in order to remedy the obvious shortcomings that are currently present in the existing framework. I therefore call on all Members to support this proposal, however, because it really is necessary to combat the pandemic effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U138	The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U139	Colleagues, indeed, many people have shook the covide, and there is one part that may not have noticed it themselves, so they have been asymptomatic. The other part, which has made a test itself, has seen that it is positive because they have not felt well and noticed quarantine, so they have sat at home but have not turned to a doctor. And the third category is the one who called the doctor, but the doctor invited them to get to the lab and pass this test. That was the case in the media a few days ago. Thus, a village where half of the population is affected by the community. I myself went to the village to talk to people, and the family doctor said that the sick had to come to the laboratory. Needless to mention, there's no public transport there, and it's also... It seems very unthinkable to call a family doctor - for a person who is ill with a community to look for one of his acquaintances, a neighbor who would lead him to analysis and become infected alone. And these people... In fact, they are left without a laboratory test and do not have a certificate, thus denying them the possibility of receiving any benefit that is currently in force for vaccinated persons. Similarly, no certificate shall be established if the tests are carried out in an automatic manner. So, the certificate... develop only if the person himself is passed the test on to the laboratory. Yesterday, also in the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, a respected doctor pointed out that if a person is ill, he cannot receive the vaccine immediately, because this will lead to very high levels of antibodies in the body and can cause very serious side effects. If we want to avoid cases where people have very serious adverse reactions, this would certainly not be the right way to do so. If we do not like Lithuania's experience, then it was recommended to look at the laws and regulations of Switzerland and Austria, because I understand that we are all trying to protect people's health in the same way and not just raise the percentage of the vaccination coverage. So I ask you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U140	Name to Member Ilmar Duritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U141	Hello, very honourable chair of the sitting! High honourable Members! Dear Members, I wanted to make a brief comment on what has been said in the debate, which relates, of course, to this proposal as well. I understand that, to a certain extent, in this lack of information about Covid-19 disease and the virus we each try to find answers to the questions. Today, of the very many colleagues who have participated in this debate, I have heard various judgments, findings and, of course, this is natural because we are looking for answers. But my call in this situation, where this disease is still so far unknown, would be to allow these specialists - doctors, Infectologists, epidemiologists, scientists - to be talked about and to refrain from such a, I would say, completely unfounded presentation of information. Trusting scientists, trusting doctors. I would like to point out that there is information at the moment that people are at a lower risk of getting sick or dying as a result of overloading or so-called 'naturally acquired immunity' (footsteps) than those who are at a lower risk of dying after vaccination. There is no such evidence, there are no such claims. We know the various infectious diseases after which... immunisation occurs immediately after vaccination compared to natural flaking. I am familiar with people who, for the first time in the community, were very easily overloaded and thought that they were protected, but then they became very sick and forced to receive oxygen therapy in the hospital. This information, which is also being expressed today from the parliamentary tribunal, is deinformation. I call on my fellow Members to refrain from this. If some 23 percent of those who have shrunk from Latvian society had such an excellent immunity, adding 50 percent of the vaccinees, we would not be in the situation we are today. The sick also suffers from overloading people and severe illness. So that I really call on Members to refrain from this... More briefly on the validity of the certificates. It is not in vain that the congestion certificate has a period of six months, as the analysis of the data shows that, after six months, the risk of new infection and disease is rapidly increasing in people who have had the congestion. Why is the vaccination certificate not due? Because observations are still taking place among vaccinees, how long and how persistent this immunity is. And let us not wonder if sometime in the future this vaccination certificate will have a deadline. Just these data are still being analysed... because many people in the world have only recently received the vaccine, many countries have not yet received the vaccine at all, as they do not have the opportunity to do so. Let us therefore be patient, let us call on the whole of society to understand this situation, also to understand that many questions still do not have very convincing and scientifically sound answers, but that those who are our doctors are known to our specialists and are taken into account. So I call, colleagues, to be united in step and in mind with specialists and scientists who know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U142	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U143	Madam President, colleagues. Thank the Secretary of State... Mr Parliamentary Secretary, I am sorry for the answer, and yet I am also calling for consideration to be given to what Members have said. I would just remind you that I called for at least a debate with experts on antibodies or other scientific findings or omissions that are taking place in the world in the context of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. I repeat that this proposal also talks about the establishment of a Cabinet of Ministers order to deal with such issues. So absolutely unacceptable insults about some disinformation, but on the contrary, I call on the Cabinet to act, you have been given all the powers. Secondly, I call again and again on the Saeima to involve experts and scientists in the work, despite the fact that you do not support them financially, but if you now say that there are scientists in Latvia who are doing this (and we know it), then please, Mr. Rancāns, engage in the work of the committee so that the discussion is in substance, not just to point out something that understands and does not understand. Encourage Members to understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U144	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U145	First of all, I thank Mr Dūritis for his willingness to speak on this subject, although, of course, you are Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Health and that is your job and duty to talk about such matters. It's kind of weird that I need to say thank you for that, but it's so rare... I thank you. In essence, Mr Durish, what you are doing is telling us, here, my fellow Members, better obey the medical professionals who are talking about this matter. But you may not have heard what I want to tell you. I'm just... Even if we obey here, I think, Members of the Saeima... I repeat: every person who has a phone in his hand and access to the Internet... He can search the Internet and, for example, Mr. Durish, find the epidemiologist of the Harvard Medical School, Martin Kuldorf, who is a doctor. And find, for example, an interview with him in which he says: if you offer to... that in the case of a vaccine passport or certificates of vaccine, we will determine... We must definitely grant such a certificate to people with natural immunity. Here we come... Mr. Durishi, if you say that, on the one hand, is... One expert says one, the other expert says the other. People can very easily find those second experts. And what do these people conclude? What will they conclude on whether they need vaccination or not? Unfortunately, time is not enough to develop an argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U146	Name to Member Andris Flyre.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U147	Hello, Mrs. Lībiņa-Egnere! Dear colleagues, Then I will also explain briefly. There was a lot of misinformation. This is first of all a comparison of immunity after overloading and vaccination. So now the scientific world makes it clear that immunity after Covid-19 vaccination is much more stable and secure than after overloading. Why? There are, of course, several answers, but one of the most important things I will explain immediately. Thus, if a man overloads the Covid-19 virus, then actually antibodies are formed against all the... against many components of this virus. But, for example, the formation of nucleoside components is the most important. But these antibodies do not protect us against redisease. And there's a mistake of thinking, let's say. A person thinks he is protected because he has these nucleoside antibodies, but in reality, no, he is not protected. And when we vaccinate, we get these specific antibodies, specifically against the so-called... these spike antibodies, and they also provide longer and more stable immunity. Others too... This is based on the findings of both our experts and global experts. Another thing. There are countries, such as the Scandinavian countries, where this certificate does not work for six months as we do, but only for two months. So we even have more. Stable, really stable... such plus minus stable immunity after overloading is in fact only two months, and then it begins to rapidly, rapidly decline. I have already said this several times to a pure comparison that there is only one infectious disease - please, colleagues, we should also be vaccinating against it - which is not recommended to vaccinate, only one, and that is encephalitis of ticks. If a man, protect God, even sick with tick encephalitis... then make sure... then the flaking provides a stable immunity against tick encephalitis virus. In fact, against everyone else, and against the community in particular, the world of science is clearly and lightly saying: “We must vaccinate!” I also heard from Mr Dolgopolov, it seems... Here too is a good answer - went to the doctor, see, there were as though a lot of antibodies: “Don’t vaccinate!” There were also probably these unnecessary antibodies to nucleosides, which are of no relevance, and there can be no too many antibodies. So I also call on all the Members who have debated today, both from the opposition and from the position, to still say to all our neighbours, relatives, friends, grandparents, grandparents: "Please go to vaccination!" Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U148	We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U149	Hello, colleagues! Listening to what Mr Skride said on another call to us, Members, to explain something to our constituents and citizens and to convince them that, for example, even when you are told by a family doctor or another medical professional that if you have a certain level of antibodies, it is not advisable to vaccinate, I would like to say the following. I ask the Ministry of Health and the Cabinet of Ministers if it cannot be dealt with by the Ministry of Health, to clarify this issue and to determine the responsibility of any doctor for any recommendation made by him in connection with Covid-19 disease, pandemic, vaccination and so on. Because too many recent times I have calls and letters from people, where they refer directly to the recommendations of family doctors or other doctors in connection with this disease. Last case is Covid-19, who is in Turkey. He has everything, he has a positive Covid–19 test in a laboratory, he has been lying in a Turkish hospital, out of which are all documents that he has shrunk, in addition to quite a heavy form. He has a certificate of a certain amount of antibodies, and he has an oral recommendation from two Latvian doctors that he should not under any circumstances vaccinate. But at the same time, this person had applied to the National Health Service for recognition of the documents submitted by Turkey, i.e. the Covid-19 laboratory test, the documents of the hospital, which attest to the fact of the overloading, as the basis for issuing him a Covid-19 burst certificate. He was refused because he had shrunk Covid–19 outside Latvia, and it is claimed that there is no norm, no law, which would allow our famous Ministry of Health to issue this man with a shrunk certificate. Our doctors, who say, “No, no, in no case with the amount of antibodies you can’t vaccinate!” , he requires what I do if my job, my job requires that certificate. But he is not given a smear certificate or is advised to be vaccinated. Then, please, could it somehow be arranged or at least start with that put on any recommendation by any doctor orally, WhatsApp, telephone due to the community... that he is obliged to record it in the patient’s e-health file. Perhaps we will start by this where it is its responsibility, not by calling Members! - to explain to people that, here, it's all a nightmare, its antibodies and... I have heard it, yes, indeed, that vaccines give it the biggest ‘meal’ of the virus in several forms and increase protection, but I am not a doctor, but I do not have the diploma to show people and say, ‘Trust me!’ Unfortunately, the situation has been brought down to a level that I do not know who needs to tell people so that they really believe what you are claiming at the moment, whether with or without diplomas. Then do something to have people who can really believe, first, and second, to trust and, third... to have a legislative framework and then demand responsibility from these advisers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U150	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U151	Thank you. I very much like that the parliamentary secretary talked about disinformation, information and everything else. The subject of the discussion is not to inform about the achievements or failures, but the question is about the proposal. The proposal is to ask the Cabinet of Ministers to draw up rules on this case, which we are discussing so much and extensively. Is everything clear today? Not at all. I'll ask you a question from my life. I have a certificate that has been obtained because I have been vaccinated. Now I have shrunk the community with all the signs: temperature, with a positive test and so on, and so on, with a sick leaf. If that first certificate was issued to me without a deadline, what situation do I have with certification now? Do I now have to come for six months before the next vaccination? Is vaccination necessary at all? And so on, and so on. Questions to me as a patient have a number of questions, and what do you think that people who are not in this case have no such questions? They also have the questions, and they also need answers to those questions, the aim of which would also be work on the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. Well, if common sense is still present, colleagues, I call for support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U152	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U153	Colleagues! When we hear Mr Dūritis call for trust in science, we would certainly like to point out to Mr Dūritis that he, as a representative of the government, was able to trust science and doctors when the doctors called on the government to take decisions. We see that these results are now being put on the public side because of the late decisions taken by the government. That is why Mr Dūris should really think about what he is calling on the other colleagues. If we are talking about the experience of other countries, we see that the Estonian administrative court has already decided, on the basis of individual applications, that persons who have applied to the court are treated in the same way as those who have applied to the court. This decision will set a precedent, and it may be expected that, at the level of the government in Estonia, a decision will also be made on the alignment of antibody levels to flaking, official flaking, because, in essence, there is now a division - an official disease and an informal disease - which is absolutely absurd, too, from a legal point of view. Therefore, colleagues, yes, I would also support this proposal, although I do not, of course, support all these certification regulations in substance, but if it makes one person more protected, it will be good. There are a number of people who have complained about the situation in which they find themselves, such as certificates for many... Slaughter certificates end in mid-November, which means that they should, in principle, run the next day, even though they still have the amount of antibodies that they have. Likewise, as colleagues have said, contrary to the direction of a number of doctors who... Unfortunately, doctors are afraid to say these instructions formally, it is also, of course, another stone in your garden, the honourable coalition, because doctors are no longer able to help people according to their oath. They must work in accordance with the guidelines laid down by both Mr Skride and Mr Durys, and they must not act in their conscience and conscience, their education and their experience in the way that they are given their profession. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U154	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time. ( Pause) Mr. Zarins, we can't hear you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U155	I thank my colleagues for their support for this proposal. I would really have liked to hear the opposite arguments. Of the counter arguments I've heard right now... I appeal to colleagues who have tried to argue in some way why they are not prepared to support the substance of the proposal. Did you yourself notice that you indicted your own failure and incompetentness and lack of preparedness to make responsible decisions? In particular, you are still talking about your lack of clarity as to what to do with this whole situation. You even call here disinformation and demagogy, but you are doing demagogy at the moment. With demagogy and failure... And I'll explain why. So this question about the extent to which this level of antibodies is working or not working... If you really wanted to study it and make the necessary decisions, you could. Take the statistics! Those who are those who have been overloaded, who have been suffering again, who have a real level of these antibodies, and how this level of antibodies is... Further, according to this antibody level, how many patients have been affected and what has been the case. And you would already have realistic official statistics to figure out whether and how to set up this regulation for people who have overloaded and who have antibodies so that they can get this certificate, and for how long. That is exactly what we are now offering, what I am proposing with my proposal, that the Cabinet of Ministers should develop order. So not here we're going to get it out of our finger, but it's you. If we accept this proposal today, then the power will be forced to sit with scientists, talk to experts about it and seek a solution. Otherwise, this will not happen. I call for this to be supported, because it is a matter for the health and even life of many people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U156	The debate is closed. Thank you. Mr Rancan, would you like to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U157	Yes, on behalf of the Commission, I will make a very brief comment: in the Commission, the debate on this issue was as long and as passionate as it is in the sitting. The arguments were very similar, but the Commission did not support this proposal. One of the main reasons is that this certificate could not be issued because the time of illness is objectively unknown and it would be very difficult to determine for how long to issue this certificate. Also, of course, the discussion was about the other arguments, and most of the members of the committee did not think that Google had some separate scientific interviews... that it would be sufficiently scientific to be able to make such decisions. In particular, the majority of commission members decided, however, to rely on those who are more familiar with this area and do not support this proposal. So I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U158	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - Ivars Zarina's proposal! Please vote mode! For - 35, for - 51, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U159	Next, nine. - the proposal of the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavlut. The second paragraph of Article 6.9, after the word ‘issued’, shall be supplemented by the words ‘stable, voidable, renewable’, meaning that the arrangements for the movement of these certificates are specified. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U160	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U161	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. She proposes to exclude Article 3 of the draft law, which proposes to exclude Article 7.1 of the law. In the Commission, this proposal is not supported because the conceptual exclusion of Article 7.1 at first reading has already been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U162	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U163	Colleagues! This article was excluded at first reading because it was the only article dealing with the regulatory framework for labour relations in the context of comma infection. This article - and has already been supported at first reading - has been replaced by a special chapter on epidemiological safety in the working environment, which, in a rather misleading way, would only talk about how workers are protected and how employers provide both services and protection against infection, but in reality this chapter, colleagues, is the greatest shame that is currently being created in the Saeima. This is really a gross interference in labour law. This chapter will say that a staff member who does not hold a certificate is not at all fit for work. Therefore, from a purely legal point of view, I had proposed to conceptually leave this article where it is and not to open a new chapter that would discriminate against workers, lay off workers, because they do not have this certificate. I therefore call on you today... I understand that this will be a resolution, a political resolution, as Mr Rancan has said. So the political arguments are higher than the legal arguments, the political will is higher than the legal ones, so we are likely to see the triumph of political will today, which will not always take the form of a legal solution. I call on you to support this proposal and not to support all the next chapter in the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U164	I closed the debate. Mr Rancan, would you like to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U165	On behalf of the Commission, I would just add that this particular issue has been spoken very many times and very much debated. The legislator has expressed his will in conceptual terms, and I therefore call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U166	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U167	11. - also the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. Like in the previous proposal, Julija Stepanenko proposes to exclude from the draft law the proposed Article 7.2, which has been supported at first reading by both the Commission and the Saeima. Consequently, the Commission did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U168	We started a debate on the proposal. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U169	Dear colleagues, This article, which I propose to exclude, is based on the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. It is therefore envisaged that the Cabinet of Ministers has - and has already - laid down the conditions for carrying out work with certificates. Specific occupational groups for the performance of their duties are mentioned here. And I would like to return to the question of the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers. As we have seen, the Cabinet of Ministers has established, on the basis of the powers conferred by Article 4 of this law, a system whereby people will now lose their jobs or go abroad if they do not wish to make a decision in favour of vaccination. So... Colleagues! If we hear some perhaps criticisms of government decisions from our individual colleagues, then... Once again, I would like to call on them to think about the fact that this article, too, derives from the powers that have been given to the Cabinet of Ministers - to decide on the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers which discriminate against workers. This Article opens the entire discriminatory chapter on labour law relations. I call on my colleagues to vote against this article, so to support my proposal to exclude it. I will also call for a vote to be taken on the exclusion of the other articles. So I call on you fellow Members to support my proposal and to think again about what powers you have given to the Cabinet of Ministers. These mandates include the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers to separate people, to separate employees, to leave the employees, to allow to send employees in forced idle; this is already happening in state and municipal institutions and will take place in mass as of 15 November. Colleagues, I call for my proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U170	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U171	Dear President, Dear colleagues, I also join in the call for support for the proposal in question and for the next proposals, which are truly linked to the illogical promotion of vaccination. If we think that we will increase the much-needed vaccination coverage in this way, then... Colleagues, we need to understand that we are likely to make a serious, serious mistake. What we achieve is that people... not the distrust of the Minister for Health and the government that calls them to it, but... realizing that people are trying to make life even more difficult... As in prison, they're also deprived of their jobs... By the way, we have talked about this in the past - the possibility that a person, if he's been overloaded before and if he has some reasonable concern, will listen to the various doctors... There are many different reasons why a person has not yet decided to protect his health with the vaccine. But the fact that he has not yet decided to do so is that he is dismissed from work and is left without income. This absolutely does not contribute to confidence in the country. Instead of being honest in explaining all the benefits and disadvantages to people (this is what we had to do from the beginning!) and create a professional crisis management centre (to which, by the way, we have already called the Prime Minister and the President of Latvia more than a year ago), we have come to such an extent that there is a real division of society, one part of society is divided against the other - employers are treated against employees, colleagues against colleagues, relatives against relatives. All this is absolutely wrong. In essence, these proposals, which are contained in the law and which, with the proposal in question, Commissioner Julia Stepanenko's proposal, we can correct... Indeed, the existing rules divide society rather than unite. Instead of taking the best examples from many European countries, which are really positive - not negative, but positive! - incentives, with fair treatment and explanatory work, have achieved an incomparably higher vaccination coverage, we... We see people on the contrary... What works at the moment, unfortunately... who works - that many people decide to go to vaccination by seeing what happens in hospitals. It was a very, very risky and difficult strategy, which, perhaps without wishing to do so, had reached the government. But if we had had an interpretative job, we should not have to give up people, we should not have to give up people who are working away from homes that do not threaten others, we should not put our colleagues at risk. Therefore, colleagues, I also call for the vote on the specific provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U172	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U173	Colleagues! Many people call and write us daily, tell us their situations, which are very different, and call people from a wide range of professions. Unfortunately, there is also a need to hear stories about people who are now trying to recover from respiratory disease, which is not the community, and who have to make a difference in the coming days (thereby, not waiting for a proper recovery, to make a difference!) in favour of vaccination, which, of course, is also a threat to their health. People are seen as robots, such as digital columns that need to be statistics, but in terms of human health, of course, responsibility lies only in their own hands. What is the solution? What the solution is, you will ask. And the answer will be that, as in other countries, the way in which this test is available has been achieved for all, because if you want to test at a job because you do not have this certificate, it will cost her about 15 minutes of her working time (we are talking in material terms, of course; others do not like us) - it would be 30 euros; it is just devastating with regard to the teacher's salary, because it should be every 72 hours. We see that this testing is also introduced in the new regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, and only the vaccinees will be tested. This means that workplace testing is possible and can be applied to absolutely all workers, whether or not they have been vaccinated. You really want to create two classes of people in the country and discriminate against the other by this law and by these rules. I call on you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U174	I closed the debate. Mr. Rancan, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U175	On behalf of the Commission, I will not speak in spirit, but I call for it not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U176	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U177	12. - a proposal from a group of Members, namely Ramona Petraviča, Māra Možvillo, Alda Gobzema, Ralfa Nemiro, Ieva Krapāne and Karina Sprūde. This provides for an improvement of Article 7.2, which provides that, in addition to the vaccination or congestion certificate, the employer may also require... and allow to work with SARS-CoV-2 antigen test. This was discussed in the Commission. In the Commission, having heard experts and considering that such a test does not, however, prevent disease, the proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U178	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U179	Colleagues! The current amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection and the draft law are generally fundamentally discriminatory, illegally restrictive and disproportionate. It will make people leave work, lose jobs, deny services and create hatred for public facilities. It does not provide almost any help or safe alternatives. We propose that the amendment include a clause on the authorisation of workers to carry out their duties, with the negative result of the Covid-19 test, and thus prevent discrimination from employers against those who have not vaccinated and who do not wish to do so. Such changes will reduce the discriminatory nature of restrictions adopted by governments and coalitions. They are reducing this without taking into account the desire of the government to gain the confidence of their elites, limiting the rights of those who think otherwise. The current draft law prevents access to vital needs of life. It seems only on the basis of the difference of opinion. I have already used this comparison on several occasions and have allowed me to repeat it: in principle, such inequality is like discrimination on the basis of political opinion or religion. The amendments that I have tabled do not solve this in their entirety, but at least allow them to remain in the workplace and earn important income for families. That is first. In addition, it should be noted that the vaccination coverage is still not homogeneous ethnic origin... breakdown. On average, the vaccination coverage is lower among minorities than among the basic nationalities. And it is these people who will be most affected, because discrimination against them is often present. In the case of less qualified workers, the change of staff may be much easier and will also remain income-free. This draft law - in its current version - explicitly ignores the most vulnerable interests. Secondly, my amendments to a large extent... than it is at the moment... ensure the right to autonomy over your body. Today, individual rights are the cornerstone of societies, but they have been disproportionately restricted during the Covid-19 pandemic. Choose not to vaccinate... Fear of side effects, long-term health risks and so on - these are legitimate reasons for refusing vaccination, because so far the government has not managed to provide these people with a guarantee of safety or a clear explanation. The amendments we are proposing would give people a real chance to wait, so the questions related to vaccination will be answered and the person will feel safe. And thirdly, they would bring the draft law closer to a proportionate state policy on the fight against Covid-19. I would like to remind you that the draft law - in the form it is - violates all the rules on the proportionality of public policy and the limitation of minimum rights. The proposal for a permit to continue working with a negative test would reduce both the limited number of rights and the limited number of people. And such an approach - in addition to the alternatives I have suggested to combat or limit infection - would provide the same epidemiological security as the current draft law... Give people a vital alternative - decide (inform!) by itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U180	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U181	Colleagues! Returning a little to the issue of green certificates, I draw your attention to the fact that, at the moment, you want to create a new order that is, in principle, much more stringent than the requirements for people entering Latvia, including from third countries. This means that a person from any country can enter Latvia - with negative test, by the way! - but no people in Latvia... public and municipal institutions or private institutions... No person in Latvia will be able to work on the spot from 15 December unless he has a certificate of flaking or vaccination. You will have created a very strange system in which, as I said, anyone will be able to enter with a test, but he will not be able to work with a test. And that is, of course, another one - another! - the infringement in this whole series of violations you have committed. I call for support for this colleague's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U182	I closed the debate. Mr. Rancan, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U183	On behalf of the Commission, I would just add that the Commission did not support this proposal. On the other hand, when it comes to this discrimination and proportionality, these issues were, of course, also discussed within the Commission. And I would like to remind you that the draft law itself also provides that the Cabinet of Ministers determines exceptional cases in which, indeed, due to health conditions, this requirement for a vaccination certificate could not be justified. In other words, there should be an objective reason why a person does not want to be vaccinated. What we hear most about is that they are simply these subjective considerations and that information on possible threats has been found in the networks. No one can really justify this objective criterion. It is therefore the Commission's view that it is reasonable that in future the Cabinet of Ministers will most probably determine these exceptions if it is not simply the doctor who looks at this, but the doctor's consilium could determine that these risks are really so huge, so high. It is not proportionate in this situation - with a subjective view based on incomprehensible sources of information, to refuse vaccination. On the other hand, on the subject of discrimination, it is more than clear that people who are vaccinated are currently being discriminated against: they are currently unable to access other health services due to unvaccinated capacities and burdens of hospitals. So that's not so clear here. That is why this proposal was rejected by the Commission. And I also call for it to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U184	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - the proposal submitted by Members Petravičas, Možville, Gobzem, Nemiro, Krapāne and Sprūde! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U185	Next - 13. - Proposal by Ilona Kronberga, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, which provides for the exclusion of the words “for certain groups of professions” from Section 7.2 of the Law. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U186	Let us start a debate. The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U187	Hello, fellow Members, again! Hello, chair of the sitting! Yes, this seemingly small, invisibility proposal in fact excludes the possibility of referring in general to certain matters relating to vaccination as a voluntary measure by deleting from the provision of the law those words ‘for certain groups of professions’. This Article lays down that, in fact, everyone is under an obligation to vaccinate. And it doesn't matter if he's a doctor, a firefighter or a cop who... is because... Well, it was justified that it is very, very, very necessary. And in fact, these three words express the meaning of this law. We can play democracy here, we can talk about cross-crossing things, but this proposal makes this law, the code-over law, the law on compulsory vaccination compulsory. Therefore, at least for me as a man who reads this law without having legal education, but trying to understand, so to say, the spirit of the law and the letter of the law, it is clear that this proposal is not acceptable, because it completely excludes all further discussion and thinking that it should not, however, be shared by those who have decided to vaccinate them... or do not vaccinate after flaking... but do something different. And the sad thing is that taxpayers, including unvaccinated ones, paid five million with their taxes... in the national research programme... 10 projects, where with amazing... with about the same amount paid for the necessary research, and that's about 500 thousand... However, when I asked responsible people in the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, how these studies are used, an official of the Ministry of Health did not learn to explain where these studies are being used at all. I admit that these researches are not necessary and beautifully stored somewhere - in files, in folders and elsewhere - and slowly pollute. And we, society, won't know how that salad was. Neither will we, society, know what to do to prevent infection in the future. We will not know much. Now, while it is being criticised by us that we read from unknown sources of various information and then try to spread it, the coalition Members themselves use political intrigues, political interests to get Parliament through this law and to continue business with vaccines, with the purchase of vaccines... the current situation in the country. I would like to say that it is not a'success' of the opposition that this is the case in hospitals; unfortunately, it is the'success' of the self-governing. I have repeatedly said that what is happening in Riga and in the offices is not exactly what is happening outside Riga. All these decisions made are extremely out of touch with life and nothing! - does not help a person to fight co-infection or help an employer to understand what to do. And emigration is still taking place - good workers are leaving because they understand that their views on vaccination do not match those of the ruling coalition, prevent them from gaining income here, feed the family and take care of their future. I call for this proposal to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U188	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U189	Colleagues! I join Mr Možville in saying that this clarification is very harmful because... Again, honourable colleagues, especially colleagues from the opposition, come back to the question of the authority of the Cabinet, with which the Cabinet is now so generously gifted. In these mandates... The Cabinet of Ministers will have the right and right to decide on all types of restrictions regarding employment legal relations. And we see that previously this article had imposed at least some restrictions on requiring that the professions in question be identified... The Cabinet of Ministers... within the framework of such action. Now, with the exception of these restrictive conditions (it is about specific professions), the Saeima again extends the powers of the Cabinet even further, allowing the Cabinet to impose restrictions on the entire employment sphere. I therefore call on you to pay very careful attention to the law you are creating at the moment, because voting in favour of this proposal will further extend the powers of this Cabinet. Once again, of course, I would remind my honourable colleagues that the Cabinet still exploits - in my opinion - these powers, which were given in Article 4 of this law - to decide on absolutely all the cases currently regulated by the Cabinet of Ministers regulations. I call for this proposal not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U190	I closed the debate. Mr. Rancan, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U191	Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U192	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - The proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Kronberg! Please vote mode! For - 64, for - 10, for - 3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U193	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - also the proposal by Ilona Kronberga, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. This specifies what constitutes an employer in the public administration. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U194	The 14th proposal was put to the vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - Proposal by Ilona Kronberga, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice! Please vote mode! For - 67, for - 7 and for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U195	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. The Member proposes to exclude from the draft law Article 7.3, which has been conceptually supported at first reading and which deals with the employer's own assessment of the categories of posts that will require these specific certificates, as well as the obligation for the worker to present them if the employer so requests. In the Commission, of course, Julia Stepanenko's proposal to exclude what had already been conceptually supported was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U196	We launched a debate on the proposal. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U197	Colleagues, yes, this will now be the most intense article you have voted on, which I will nevertheless call for to be taken out. Mr Rancan said that, of course, the Commission did not support my proposal, because it was conceptually agreed on such an article at first reading. I could also remind you, colleagues, that the previously-led draft compulsory vaccination law, despite conceptual support at first reading, remained in Mr Rancán's drawer, given that perhaps the coalition was unable to agree on support for this draft law for various political reasons. I call on you to draw attention to the fact that this article completely undermines legitimate expectations regarding the Labour Law, Article 6 of the Labour Law, and the principles to which all workers and employers have adhered. The social partners have also so far been entrusted with the fact that the Labour Act was such a safety island that members of the Saeima, if I remember correctly, were not allowed to move and change a lot without special coordination with the social partners. However, yes, the coalition has found a new way to intervene in labour legal relations, despite the fact that neither the emergency situation nor the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers in nature allow it to interfere in labour legal relations, because we remember that in principle protection against possible infection still includes other means of protection than those currently being imposed by most coalitions and governments. Therefore, colleagues, this proposal... So this article... I will perhaps remind those colleagues who have not gone into this whole story. This Article provides that the employer... and don't... In principle, however, it is misleading, which is included in that law, so that the employer chooses to impose these requirements on which employees. They are a lie, because we see that this law is linked together with the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, with the order of the Cabinet of Ministers, and it makes it clear and clear that as of 15 December all employees of private institutions, private bodies, private companies will be relieved, suspended because they will not have a certificate of flaking or vaccination... if they continue to work in person. If at least one factory detects workers who, after 15 December, are working on the site without a flaking or vaccination certificate (in spite of all these mistakes, which may be trying to circumvent this law by respected colleagues from the coalition), the employer will be severely punished. And he will be punished every day, maybe even several times a day, if he continues to employ these people. The only ones! - staff members who will be able to continue their work without a certificate after 15 December, will be employees working in the private sphere and remotely. It's just. So, colleagues, we should not be misled - we should not deceive the public, we should not deceive each other. This article, as well as all the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Cabinet of Ministers' Order, have been created to completely destroy the procedure of employment relations previously established in Latvia and employees' rights. I call on you not to support this whole block. So I call on you to support my proposal which completely eliminates this article, which states that a worker who does not hold a certificate of congestion or vaccination is not fit for work. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U198	Mrs Petraviča, will it be enough for you to have a debate with two minutes?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U199	Yeah, that's enough.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U200	The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U201	Since we have tabled in principle the same proposal as the next one, I will speak to this. I would really refer to these amendments in the law as a masterpiece of the government's arrogance and would call on the government to return from space to Earth before making such absurd amendments. I will not repeat what I said earlier, but specifically on the situation. I've got a lot of help calls from parents who bring up children with disabilities, from parents who take care of their special children. And the situation is like that. This week, mothers who are assistants to their children (and it is mainly true that mothers take care of their children by taking a report to the social service) are told that they must be vaccinated after 15 November, if not, then they will not receive any remuneration for the assistance. So there's another person to look for who could be an assistant to her baby. And here I would really like to hear an explanation of how, in such a situation, the presence or absence of vaccination in some way reduces the incidence of the disease. Parents live with their child in one household, meet him every day, every hour, but from November 15, they will not be able to provide services to their child because they are threatening someone. What exactly is this parent’s threat? He will likewise live with the child, have been vaccinated or not vaccinated. A vaccine assistant can then come and will not be put at risk by unvaccinated members of the household? It is a deliberate demonstration of power against people. Whatever you wish, the absence of an assistant's salary cannot be linked to the fight against the pandemic. It's just pressing people on the roads. Do the assistants then stand and wait in line for work? As far as I know, an assistant is very difficult to attract, even more for a child with a severe disability. Suddenly take a stranger - this can cause the child to stress, and thus also exacerbate health problems. For many parents of special children, an assistant’s salary is the only means of subsistence. Do you even understand what you do to children and families? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U202	The debate is closed. Mr. Rancan, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U203	Thank you. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that this has already been discussed at first reading. Both in the Commission and the Saeima sitting this is supported. And it is not worth talking about it again. So I am calling for this proposal from Julia Stepanenko to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U204	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 15. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! It's not about - 32, it's against - 50, it's not. The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, It's time for a break. Only the registration of Members. It's been a success. I would remind you that the break is till 13:00. So the break is till 13:00. Let us re-examine the other items on the agenda at 13.00, and let us start with further proposals in this draft law. So the break is till 1 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U205	Dear colleagues, The Saeima shall continue its meeting on 4 November 2021. We are continuing the debate on the draft law "Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on communicableity Management". We are debating proposal 16. Please, Mr. Rancan!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U206	So 16. - Proposal by Members Ramona Petraviča, Māra Možvillo, Alda Gobzema, Ralfa Nemiro, Ieva Krapāne and Karina Sprūde. This is exactly the same as proposal 15. It is envisaged to exclude Article 7.3 above. This proposal is, of course, not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U207	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U208	Colleagues, I have already made the previous proposal, because the two proposals are the same. I really regret to say... I hear Mr. Ranzan says that it is not worth talking about this at the moment... when I talk about children with disabilities, about their parents, who will remain without income, who are, in principle, denied the opportunity to take care of themselves and be an assistant to their children. However, I would like to hear some of the answers you recommend to these parents - without its cynical smile and two words "Go vaccinate". I would also like to hear the reasons for how you intend to limit the spread of infection when these people live in the same household. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U209	Name to Member Juris Rancan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U210	Thank you for your word. However, I would like to respond once again to Mrs Petraviča's question of what to do to people. I've already mentioned this before, so consider whether or not you want to be vaccinated... on which it is based. Whether it is based on real health problems, or whether it is based on subjective desires, i.e. simply saying - I do not want to. We are now in a very large pandemic and a disaster situation. People enter hospitals, and hospitals are now over-exploited. Unvaccinated patients are the absolute majority. They're on the load right now... beds, the vaccinees cannot receive other health services. If someone is trying to justify that, you know, I still have the right not to take a vaccine because I want it because I read on social networks that it can harm, then it's not normal. Colleagues, we must respect solidarity. We must have solidarity with society as a whole. There can be no subjective desires and desires that are not justified by the doctor’s consilium’s opinion that, yes, this is indeed the case when a person cannot vaccinate. It is not possible to move such a subjective desire forward in the interests of public health as a whole. It's not normal. The honourable opposition, of course, that at the moment you are trying to find some one possible small inaccuracy, try to find some situation to be able to say that all the regulation is not valid. The honourable opposition, you are the ones who have opposed any restrictions in the past. Who most - I would like to remind you - was here against the use of masks, against other restrictions? And now you are shouting that the government has not been over, and the government is guilty of being overloaded in hospitals at the moment. But again, colleagues, are you here... Is that so? When you made that motivation accelerated here, you know, but I think, but I want it, and it's my right not to vacate... And that's a simple point of view... It's not an opinion! Hospitals are crowded, people die, 90 percent or more die unvaccinated people whom you have convinced you that simply wanting not to be vaccinated because they read conspiracy theories on social networks or someone has read an interview with a doctor or specialist, a subjective interview, rather than a truly reviewed research in a scientific journal, where it would have gone through a proper review... consider himself to be sufficiently competent to be able to argue with health professionals suddenly. Now you're not competent! Well, there's no Google and these studies... they are not uniform and equal to officially recognised studies. You will now try to tell and tell about the risks of vaccination. I would like to remind you that no fatalities have been confirmed in Latvia at the moment. Adverse reactions have been reported, most of the adverse reactions are listed in the vaccine description - temperature, fatigue, redness, itching. There are cases - which we will talk about in the forthcoming proposals - where people are forced to go to hospital because of these side effects, but there is compensation, but there is an absolute minority against the number of vaccines. Colleagues, I ask you to be aware that these risks... and the irresponsibleness that you are now broadcasting to your constituents is also contributing to the overload of these hospitals. How much we can all of the time eat the same thing! If someone says I don't want to vaccinate... or - I now suddenly have my right now, because of this law, what do I do now, how do I live now? Get out of here! If you have any grounds for not having a vaccine, please contact your doctor to send you to a consilium where they will assess whether you really have allergies and contraindications to the substances contained in the specific vaccines. Thank you, colleagues. I call for this demagogy to end.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U211	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U212	Thank you. I can tell Mr. Rancan a little secret. The absolute majority of people who choose not to receive vaccination have made their decision on the basis of their own health... So take care of your health and worry about what Mr. Rancán just said about people who have been forced to treat side effects. It is therefore absolutely clear that perhaps Mr Rancán is currently a little bit concerned with this type of demagogy, saying that for those people who do not want to be vaccinated, this choice is, here, just such a desire. No, it's definitely not, it's not... Indeed, this is not a time of colhozos when someone thought that people who don't want to work in colhosics... That it's a wish for him. It is a person's personal choice, because health and immunity are one, and this immunity has not been created by either Mr Rancán or Mr Pavulut or any other decision-makers. It is a man’s personal wealth, which no one would have the right to take away. If we're talking about... We've moved a little... from this article. On this article, I would also like to comment a little further on the fact that, yes, in Mr Rancán's opinion, these might be a small defect, but these are not small shortcomings. What Mrs Petravič also said... It is a shrewd deficiency. Likewise, I draw your attention to the fact that the legislator is currently proposing the following scheme. A worker, i.e. an employee, is entitled to terminate his employment as soon as he realises that he has been put off or gone, in which the employee will not be able to receive remuneration... He has the right to terminate this employment relationship but, of course, when he terminates his employment at his own request, the employee is less likely to receive support and he is in a worse position than if he were released, for example, by Article 114 - by agreement. On the other hand, what we see from the article's regulations regarding the employer is that the employer is in a situation where he has an obligation to leave the employees three months (maximum three months) or to leave them, as will be decided without keeping the salary. Yes, of course, if someone wants to, he can pay for it, but hardly anyone will choose that way. Consequently, only after three months of suspension will the employer be able to terminate the employment legal relationship with the employee. I would like colleagues to hear this explanation, too, and if this explanation seems questionable to someone, perhaps come and say that it is not, but that is what we read from this article, and that is the regulation that you are trying to adopt at the moment. In a way, this means creating unequal relations and unequal treatment of the employee, because the employee will be placed in a very, very difficult situation. If he has a conflict with his employer, the employee will have to be in such a punishment, because we know that this suspension, or forced suspension, will most often be used. It will, however, be used as a punishment for an employee who will have violated... For example, either alcohol consumption will have been done at the workplace or something else. In this case, this article will apply to a person who does not comply with the government... the objectives set. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call on you once again to think carefully about your vote, to vote 'in favour' of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U213	This proposal is to be debated but not put to the vote. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U214	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Listening to the Chairman of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption during the debate, where the opposition is constantly being blamed for the fact that hospitals are now overcrowded... the opposition is being blamed for the fact that there are some people who have decided not to vaccinated or who are doing so very hard. I think that is very low. If someone should look in the mirror and look at those responsible, then first of all this should be done not so much at government level, but at parliamentary committee level. And it is at the personal level of Mr. Rancán, because also taking part in responsible debates, where there is a rational... where members from the opposition are prepared to look rationally for common solutions to ensure that as many people as possible choose to protect their health; how to dispel myths; how to provide true information, there is a voting machine, there is no debate in substance anywhere; even individual members of the Commission are not given the floor when they ask for it. It is simply an insanity that happens in the Saeima and, if it is yet to be said that the Saeima's opposition is at the moment guilty of it, I believe it is low. We have numerous working groups in the Saeima for everything. When gay marriages are needed, we have three working groups in the Saeima and five more in the Cabinet and so on, then we discuss every article, we call on NGOs, we call on people. But on such a point at the very heart of the crisis, when we, the Saeima, had to give up and find solutions, you are now blaming the opposition. It's low, it's disgusting: I apologise for my expression. Please don't do that, Mr. Rancan. Involve all the Members of Parliament so that we can be meaningful - meaningful! - work and look together for solutions, not for the guilty - one guilty or the other guilty. First of all, in the first vote even on the contentious task of the Cabinet of Ministers, the mandate - it was supported by a very wide range of people. We work, we look for solutions, we work, we do not take responsibility for others, for people who do not have full information about what is happening to the virus and who want to get involved, who want to help. In our commission, the members want to help, everyone wants to help. In our group, all Members have been vaccinated. We often go out, here even to the Saeima when the protests come, and this is also what we are told that we have not grown horns, there is no tail. But if we're talking about solutions, when you don't explain to people what it means, how it helps, but you make life a prison, it's not right. That is not really right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U215	The name to Member Juris Rancan for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U216	Thank you for Mr. Tatar's emotional speech. I would like to say that you sometimes ask the government to look at self-criticism. Well, opposition, look! Perhaps let us read our verbatim reports from previous sittings of the Saeima when the government tried to introduce these specific restrictions, when there was no vaccine yet. Perhaps the opposition has forgotten how they spoke against all these restrictions, as they spoke against the masks. Perhaps the opposition does not see how you try to cultivate the ideology of egoism at the moment. Those words begin with “man”, “ me”, “me”, “I want”, “I have doubts” and so on. You've tried... It is the opposition that has tried to find any excuses for not having such vaccinations. We have heard that “I am sick abroad” that I... there’s something else, “I have such a reason”, “I have this reason”... instead of simply going to a doctor, to talk and to pick up. Colleagues, indeed, if one of you has contraindications, the consilium will objectively detect and give it... The problem is that you just try to find the excuse and you broadcast it to your constituents, that everything is wrong, that you do not need to vaccinate. That's voluntary, and everything else... And then we wonder that we have this situation right now. In other countries, the opposition has not been as destructive as with us. That is why its vaccination coverage has also been reached there. Well, colleagues, I am calling for you to be aware of your destructive action in the opposition. Instead of working together, you're trying to find some little things to fall into, to blame. That's not working. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U217	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U218	Colleagues! If Mr. Ranzan were to listen to the edge he says... He continues, in principle, to divide society by making it possible for unvaccinated to borrow - unreasonably occupied - beds in hospitals. And so, colleagues, it's hate speech, and that's the division of society. If we are talking about what Mr Rancan is saying at the moment, then we can see that, in principle, this is a sign of a very strong weakness: to blame the opposition. If we take a little backwards - yes, I can assure you that we are against absolutely unthinkable restrictions. We know that even, for example, the Ministry of Economics itself has also recognised that these restrictions have not been justified and have been wrongly established. We are talking, for example, about the limited amount of goods and many other things that have caused people to squander unreasonably, thus creating a high index of disease. Go on. If we are talking again about what we, as an opposition, have done and tried to connect with the coalition at the very beginning of the community's story, I can assure you that we have made various proposals with all our colleagues from the opposition to stop the spread of the virus in Latvia. We were the first to address members of the coalition who were still very sleepy and did not want to spend any excess euro. We called on them to close their borders, not to allow the virus to flow into Latvia. We asked to give all sick pages, but you had a pity on the money, as if distributing this money unreasonably to people who continued to go to work ill. You are responsible for the spread of this virus very, very much. If we're talking more about delta virus, no one, colleagues, no one... Mr Rancan did not even try to stop the spread of delta virus in the summer. What did Mr. Rancan do in summer? Nothing! Delta's virus went in, and you've been waiting for this moment when you can say that everything's bad. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U219	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U220	Indeed, Mr. Rancan, I think you're over a stripe. When it comes to who is the most irresponsible in the world, it seems to me that there is a striking example that one of the most destructive coalitions ruling the coalitions is our coalition. In this case, you mentioned the discussions about the masks. I would like to remind you that there is one gentleman, Kariņš, who is the head of the Latvian government, who, on television, invited people to wear masks. If there is no mask, cover your mouth with a scarlet. This presentation can be seen in the archives on television. Therefore, we should not be accused of who really has no reason. But when it comes to opposition proposals, there is philosophy. The philosophy of legislation. And in this case, it consists of two parts - either we are going to ban the road and only whether we are going on a constructive way to find a solution. Even in today's debate, a number of the proposals that have been made are very constructive. Talking about antibodies, talking about the methods and mechanisms of improving the performance of family doctors, which is extremely important... It was proposed by the opposition, not by the position. Unfortunately, that is the case. So to accuse the opposition that, here, it's destructive, it means to speculate in the opposite... Well, it's not constructive at all. It seems to me, however, that we should talk about the substance of the matter. And in this case, the draft law is not... its peak, or that mountain, which could be shown as an example of how we need to fight. Another remark. In terms of specialists, experts from the Ministry of Health appear most often in the environment of specialists, not experts from the outside. An example of this is yesterday’s discussion “What’s going on in Latvia?” , where one of the experts admitted that he had left the discussion with government representatives, considering that it had no meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U221	I closed the debate. This proposal cannot be put to the vote... the vote is requested. The debate has taken place. Mr Rancan, we shall continue to see the draft law proposal 17. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U222	17. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The right of employees and officials of public administration to speak about employment relations shall be clarified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U223	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U224	Go on. 18. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. That too is a editorial clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U225	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U226	19. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. Provides compensation for possible adverse reactions if a person has... for vaccine adverse reactions, I think if a person has developed such side effects in an average way, because at the moment, in the original version of the bill, it was only difficult... In view of the logic of this proposal, the fact that the average damage to health should also be identified, this proposal has been supported and included 22. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U227	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U228	Colleagues, in addition to what Mr Rancán said, my proposal also includes other arrangements for compensating these side effects. We can see that... In principle, we also found in the Commission that the country has introduced compulsory vaccination without providing for the possibility for people to receive compensation for adverse reactions. So we can say that compulsory vaccination has already begun. I understand that its rhetoric has now changed, because Mr. Rancán accused us a few minutes ago that we should not therefore support... that we must not support voluntary vaccination, we must always say now that this vaccination is mandatory. Let's turn a little backwards: in summer, everyone cooled their mouth and talked about vaccination being only voluntary. All right, we take note of this, but if we are talking about the fact that, at this point in time we decide, there is no procedure in place for patients to receive compensation for vaccine-induced adverse reactions... We have lived for 30 years and we have found that we do not have such a system in Latvia. This was demonstrated by the representative of the Ministry of Health at the meeting of the Commission. I therefore understand that the wording I have proposed is directly linked to the responsibility of the State Medicines Agency. Similarly, if the vaccine is a medicinal product and no one disputes it, then the National Medicines Agency should also determine and pay the compensation. On the other hand, the wording that is currently being proposed talks about the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers itself sets the cost of reimbursement of medical risk fund according to the principles and the amount of this compensation procedure. I suspect that this issue, too, has become political now, and we are talking about the cost of compensation to people who have suffered from side effects. I personally feel that such a procedure should be conducted in accordance with the arrangements already in place. That would be just logical. But no. In this case, by resolving only one issue of vaccination, the issue of Covid-19 vaccination, we have a completely different system by which people will be assessed for adverse reactions and compensation. This seems to me to be absolutely wrong, inappropriate, and it could also be an infringement, as why, for example, the evaluation of vaccine against Covid-19 adverse reactions should differ from the evaluation and reimbursement of any other medicinal product. I call for my proposal to be supported, especially given that we are talking at the moment about other arrangements in which people will be paid this compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U229	I closed the debate. Mr. Rancan?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U230	Nothing will be added on behalf of the Commission except that the procedure by which they pay compensation will be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. As I have already said, this proposal has been partly supported in the part relating to moderate health damage from vaccine side effects, so if someone demands a vote, I call for it to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U231	Please call me! We are voting for 19. - The proposal by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please, let's vote! For - 24, for - 49, for - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U232	Next - 20. - Ivars Zarins' proposal. It is very similar, practically as the previous proposal, only here Mr Zarins has removed the word'severe', namely, any damage that would have been caused by the side effects of vaccines would have been compensated. In the Commission, this proposal was rejected given that it would be disproportionate for each person to claim compensation for any redness or temperature caused.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U233	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U234	However, I would like to clarify that what was currently reported by the rapporteur was on proposal 21. Proposal 20 is different. The 20th proposal provides for the application of the same principle of support and mechanism as for any other health damage already provided for in the existing legislation, with regard to this possible harm that might come from the Covide vaccine, namely, I propose that this discriminatory treatment, which is currently enshrined in this draft law, be prevented, should only be allowed to compensate for the serious damage caused by the Covide vaccine, because it would lead to a further rhetoric that, as you see, vaccines are not safe, the power itself is not prepared to assume responsibility and so on. That we're saying... For its part, the country says: “We take full responsibility for possible adverse reactions.” Next, what we're talking about. What was said to fly with every redness is also not a competent statement, because then we should look at how this compensation fund works, which will compensate for the side effects. The real performance is that the least damage (I requested data)... So the least damage... First of all, what is the procedure? You have to prove all this, collect evidence. It takes time, energy. And with redness in your shoulder you will not go anywhere to do this. In real practice, it looks like the least damage that has been compensated is EUR 1400. €1 400 per year. And there have been individual cases like this. Separately, some cases. So in essence, we're talking about the fact that we don't need the entire pentere that's now ready that we're trying to share something. It would be right and justified that we apply the same regulation to these cases of harm from communion vaccines as to other health problems, without specifically separating here, without trying to do so in any way... without attempting a special regime. That is part of my proposal. The second part of the proposal is that, given that these vaccines are still at the stage of clinical trials and we do not know all the risks, then give the opportunity to those who might have been affected by this vaccination... have suffered damage to health that the period during which they may apply for compensation is counted from the time when all these possible risks are fully known, which means that these clinical trials have expired. I think it is very reasonable and logical to remove many speculations that the country does not want to take on the risks associated with vaccination. I call for support. Thank you. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U235	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, what will you say, Mr. Ranzan?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U236	Yes, on behalf of the commission very briefly. I thank Mr Zarins for his clarification. This proposal was contentually worded without the word "heavy", but it was very similar to that of Julija Stepanenko, and is also close to this text... and, of course, with some supplements. This proposal was not supported when the Ministry of Health heard representatives and experts. I therefore call for this proposal to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U237	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 20. - Member Ivars Zarins's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 22, for - 48, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U238	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Ivars Zarins' proposal. As we have just said, Mr Zarins makes a proposal to exclude the word "severe" from Article 49.7 of the draft law, that is to say, damage. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported in the light of the idea that... so that everyone does not write an application for each redness, for every temperature of a few hours, because we understand that it would not be proportionate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U239	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U240	Next - 22. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. It also solves the question that, in addition to words... The possibility of receiving compensation for serious harm to health from side effects caused by vaccines is provided hereunder for, too, that compensation may be granted for moderate harm. It was about having moderate difficulty understanding the loss of ability to work while... if the person is hospitalised as a result of side effects due to vaccination and is forced to receive treatment. Such situations are therefore already eligible for reimbursement of medical costs as well as for this reimbursement. The Commission is, of course, in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U241	Members are also in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U242	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from Members Vjačeslav Dombrovskis and Evija Papule. The Commission also talked extensively about the possibility of insuring pensioners against the side effects of the vaccine if the pensioner were to go to hospital or buy medicines. This proposal is not supported by the Commission, as the existing regulation provides that if a pensioner gets to a hospital with side effects and needs to be treated, then both medicines against these side effects and treatment costs will be paid. And even if you don't go to hospital, but there will still be a causal relationship with the side effects of the vaccine, as established by the National Medicines Agency, then these medicines will be paid. The solution is that the state could, at a huge cost, insure all pensioners against the side effects of vaccines... In the case of entry and treatment, it is not justified from an economic point of view either, given that such regulation already exists. Therefore, the Commission did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U243	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U244	Chair of the sitting and colleagues as well. What the head of the commission considers to be a discussion... Perhaps this was a discussion. It was a single-gate game. A manual probably a commission leader game to reject any proposal that comes from the opposition. But the story about the proposal. The aim of the proposal is, of course, to motivate seniors, who are our priority group in the vaccination process and who have not been successfully addressed so far. And there is still hardly much talk about it, because yellow advertising is hardly possible for all pensioners and seniors to see each time, so to speak. So I also criticised one way of speaking. The aim of this proposal is to encourage older people as a group of our concerns to be vaccinated during the vaccination process. It is clear that seniors are getting information from the country, not from yellow ads, but by talking with each other, of course, by phone or otherwise. And often the first questions for these people are about the current state of health and fear, or it will not make the situation worse. The other thing is about the financial means available to them, if something will happen after the vaccine and after a positive, pragmatic decision to vaccinate... However, there will be some side effects. Will this elder and pensioner be able to buy the medicine accordingly? And the third. At this point in time, however, the state would be positive in the attitude towards those seniors who have not yet decided to take vaccination. Our mass media do not in vain show our seniors' attitude - it is not always positive, and not always seniors say that they want to live longer (which would be one of the results of vaccination) that they want to be active, but on the contrary. To a certain extent it is, of course, our common attitude towards pensioners in the country, but at the same time this proposal would give a positive motivation, an answer to seniors that if there are side effects (not entry to the hospital, the god is spared!) ... if there will be side effects, and they will not be red or two days of painful shoulder, but of course more serious... which the doctor will also recognise, the country will give these people material support. I think it's... How do you say... The most inhumane statement at the current level of funding spent on the vaccination process is that it will be a large, economically unfavorable money. These are our people whose vaccination decision also depends on our common process and the immunity of the common public. That is why I repeat that the aim of this proposal is to motivate the seniors. And the rest at this point would depend on the government - which, in what way, in what time and why. Secondly. During the discussions, if they could be called discussions, the officials of the Ministry of Health have, of course, stated that everything has been resolved, everything is all right, but at the same time the question of the fact that the European Parliament is encouraging the European Commission to set up a European compensation fund for people affected by the Covid-19 vaccines respectively, and are not afraid to point out how adverse reactions have occurred following officially recognised vaccines, how many people have died in the world... Thank God, there are no such statistics in Latvia at the moment, and I hope there will be no such statistics. But the European Parliament is openly showing objective information and therefore calls for the creation of an appropriate fund. And the officials of the Ministry of Health say that we already have everything, we have everything going, we have such funds and can be repaid. At the same time, it is forgotten that elders are far from being the most active ones to fill, enforce, and first of all to know what they should do in such situations. Then, please, please inform the Ministry of Health, Mr Rancan, the seniors of the opportunities available, motivate them to make a pragmatic decision without fear of their financial situation when buying medicines, or of the fact that the State will provide support for the side effects. I understand that this proposal is an incentive for seniors. Then, please, coalition, propose sensible legislative proposals that support seniors and motivate them to vaccinate... not yellow advertising.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U245	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U246	Dear colleagues, It is very strange that this proposal is chosen by the coalition only by Mr Rancan, who in general is Chair of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption. It is very strange that this is not mentioned by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Health, Mr Dūritis, who has a direct obligation to dissipate the applicant and the public... the question that side effects from vaccines are not adequately compensated if, in the case of applicants, they are wrong, as Mr Rancán claims. Mr Dūris, so today is your direct obligation to raise such issues, such doubts we must dispel and say - yes, that is, the honourable rapporteurs, you have been wrong, the country has done everything possible for people... this is about pensioners, but not just covering them in full, because, colleagues, it is not that this government is going very well with the vaccination of seniors of risk groups. If I am not mistaken, at this point, only perhaps more than 60 percent of all seniors are vaccinated, and our hospitals are filled, if I am not mistaken, for some 83 percent, mainly with those over 50 years of age. In this situation, I think that the government must take up any proposal that could encourage vaccination among seniors. And this is a proposal. Because it's clear that there are no few elderly people who choose... who do not want to be vaccinated, precisely fearing the occurrence of vaccine adverse reactions and perhaps not enough resources for themselves to pay for their treatment. Therefore, if we are wrong here and the government has done everything we need, then, Mr Durish, please, you are here a direct representative of the Ministry of Health, Parliamentary Secretary, it is your direct responsibility to answer this question today. On the other hand, Mr. Ranzan says that it is economically unfavorable... Well, Mr Ranzan, as you are Chairman of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, you can be forgiven. I'll remind you how much this one month is paying. It costs at least EUR 180 million. And we're in this... How do you... This is precisely why, Mr Rancán, the government has not done its job to convince the seniors to vaccinate, which is why we have crowded hospitals today. Therefore, I do not know whether the Ministry of Health has made any assessment of what its cosmic costs are, or whether people with side-effects receive compensation for those medical costs if, at all, their side-effects are so rare, then they should not have any cosmic costs. But in any case, compared to EUR 180 million for one month's sitting, I doubt very much that the expenditure, as you started, the economically unjustified expenditure that you are talking about, even in some vicinity there are EUR 180 million for one month. Therefore, the honourable coalition, if the proposers are wrong, then please say it, show it with facts, figures, as you say, based on evidence. Thank you, Mr. Rancan... I'm going to do it... but I would really call on this to be done by your fellow Members, who are directly responsible for the area of health... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U247	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U248	Thank you. I think that Mr Rancan could now come back to the question of how destructive the opposition is, how it opposes vaccination and so on, and so on. This, as well as the previous proposals that have just been rejected, are clear arguments in favour of vaccination, because they provide a guarantee for those people who apply, who are going to vaccinate, who are in doubt - to vaccinate or not, who are thinking about the matter. They provide a guarantee - a state guarantee - that the State is responsible for this process - is responsible not only in words, but also in cash and grain. Therefore, I think it is very difficult to find arguments against this type of proposal. I would also like to listen, except for the one that, here, we do not know how much it will cost. No matter how much it costs if the main objective is to achieve one hundred percent vaccination, then here the funds... It is also worth taking this into account. I would call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U249	Name to Member Juris Rancan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U250	Colleagues, thank you for the debate. I'd ask everyone to watch... if, in the event of any interest in this democratic process and in particular discussion of the matter by the Commission at its meeting on 29 October, the video records shall be made publicly available. And in this matter, everyone was given a name without delay and without, as you would say now, making games feel like that. This was not about how much it would cost the state. The main question (why I also did not support this proposal) to which no answer was found at the meeting of the Commission and, I think, cannot be found, on which to finance even more insurers, if there is now a procedure whereby specifically every pensioner to whom these side effects will arise can receive compensation for medicinal products. For whom and how rational it is now that some intermediary to whom the state will pay is still needed, and then that intermediary will pay out the specific costs with the smallest part of this money. Why a system in which the state pays only if there are indeed these side effects (they are rare enough), and only if it is necessary to pay for these medicines... Why should the insurer pay for the huge insurance coverage of all pensioners at all? There is no answer. If you talk about it being a signal to pensioners that they will be insured, it is not a good argument. It is the duty of family doctors - we talked about this in the Commission - to explain how a pensioner should act in the event of such problems. It's all detailed and explained... That is, it is really a family doctor who knows how to act and how to get such compensations, to explain. As Members, we can, of course, try to spread this information from the troupe and in our social networks, and I will certainly do so - not only for pensioners, but for everyone - so that there are no questions about the interpretations that such regulation is specifically imposed on Covidvacines. But, colleagues, now to say that the state must finance even more insurers as intermediaries, who will pay if there is a particular problem, a small amount of money, the rest will be put in their pockets - and, colleagues, it is not rational from the point of view of public expenditure. I'm also saying this exactly as a country... as the head of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and, I would stress, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, because here again, to organise proposals for insurers and pay them if they can not do so and can pay them through the right pensioners... and only in specific cases such adverse reactions are... then this proposal is absolutely unfounded, with the exception of any wishes, signals, messages. Thank you, colleagues. I will call for this proposal not to be supported, and I do not believe that, in the forthcoming debate, the opposition will be able to justify rationally why the public budget should now finance another layer of intermediaries so that pensioners can simply receive compensation when they need it. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U251	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U252	Dear colleagues, Mr Rancāns, although I do not agree with your position and our exchange of words may also be harsh, I would like to say to you that I very much appreciate your willingness and courage to speak about your position and your position, even if this view and this position are misleading, unlike those of your colleagues who are currently directly obliged to speak on this particular issue of vaccination, especially the vaccination of seniors. So, Mr Rancán, if the situation in hospitals is not so catastrophic at the moment, if it is not overcrowded mainly with the same seniors, with the same risk groups, if it is not the case that only 60 percent of seniors have been vaccinated, then you may be right today. But the situation in which we are now... I don't think there's any instrument that (A sound defect.) ... a vaccination that is unnecessary or that could now be qualified or described as economically unjustified or wasteful. What is wasteful, Mr Rancán, is to spend hundreds of millions of euros on healthcare, but not on vaccination of risk groups, nor on having additional nurses and doctors recruited at least this year or next year. The waste, Mr. Rancan, is to have a budget of half a billion... One and a half billion deficits so that there is no money to recruit additional nurses and doctors. It's a waste, Mr. Ranzan! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U253	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U254	Head of sitting! Dear colleagues, Mr. Rancan! I'll just add two things. In a debate that cannot be called a discussion, but indeed a game to which I would say something, I nevertheless asked the Ministry of Health about the possibility, in Latvia, of setting up a fund - a compensation fund - for people who have suffered from Covid-19 vaccine reactions, too, as the European Parliament tells the European Commission. In its communication and proposal, the European Parliament has identified the numbers of people following which vaccines have developed, which have been officially recognised as adverse reactions. We did not receive such a reply, or rather the Health Ministry official replied: “Somewhere, there will be... “ But you didn’t even help to get an answer when it’s going to be what’s going to be this... which will probably be the administrator of this fund or otherwise. I agree, we had an alternative, but no one proposed a solution, but simply rejected it. Secondly. Now, the insurers... I allow them to ask you about your claims and evidence, and perhaps they do. The only thing I'd say is if you said some funny insurer... Although we would talk more about state aid, of course... some funny insurer (and I'll quote you this time) "will put something in the pocket", then the question is: why does the state insure civil servants? Is that why, forgive me to put something in your pocket? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U255	The name to Member Juris Rancan for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U256	Colleagues, now it is exactly as I predicted that we did not hear any rational argument as to why there should be a further intermediary in the eyes of an insurer who would receive money for all pensioners, but would only pay to those who would have experienced these specific side effects. And it's pretty funny to hear the accusations that this budget is very wasteful, and that coalition makes such wasteful decisions, but at the same time you, as well as taking care to avoid wasting, are still offering another wasteful decision. That is why I do not support this waste. If you already believe that the coalition has made very many such decisions, in your opinion, as bad, then why should we support an even bad additional decision or a proposal that comes from the opposition? There is no real rational justification in a situation where the State can pay compensation straight from a particular fund, pay the insurer for all pensioners and thus secure some other irrational expenses. If there is a system of how to pay straight and specific only to those who have had these side effects, then I do not see any need to spend any more on the insurer. So thank you, colleagues. The answer to this is not why another intermediary should be financed and cannot be on the right track. So I will call for this proposal to continue to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U257	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U258	Reflecting on the priorities and waste, which Mr. Rancán also just said... I clearly join Mr Dombrovskis in saying that there is a waste of 34 million to repair the Saeima building. It is wasted to direct several million to the construction of Liepaja prison. There is a waste of devoting millions of funds to increasing the size of new posts. There is waste on raising pay for senior officials, not reaching any of the global development headline targets set. If there is waste in investing money from the Recovery Fund, mostly in construction facilities and in the construction of public administration infrastructure, rather than in competitive and active facilities and projects, and ensuring business development... It is a waste of money invested primarily in buildings and not in people. It is wasteful when we do not have 300 doctors in order to ensure the quality of our health (and there is a shortage of doctors in rural areas, for which there is also public information), but budgetary resources are invested in buildings and construction works. It's a waste. It is increasingly showing that this parliament, the political forces in power, human life, health... Quality of life and health is not a priority. The priority is the repair of the Saeima building by 34 million, because for some people it is difficult to sit in small offices or the condition of these offices does not match the current conditions. But please tell me why people living in rural areas do not have access to high-quality medicine and medical care, but some girls and grooms, and so on... To sit at the Saeima in a modern building for 34 million? So what are its priorities? Where is the austerity and targeted use of funds there? In addition, the development of the entire budget is built on debt and on the development and recovery mechanism. I will support Mr Dombrovskis' and Mrs Papule's proposal and believe that health investment is an investment, not a waste. Dispersion and repairs of the Saeima building by 34 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U259	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U260	Thank you. Mr. Rancan, however, we need to be right. You talked about two things in your speech - the fact that family doctors are obliged to explain to seniors what the consequences are if adverse reactions occur and what compensation could be. You may have looked at and may have been interested in the strain on family doctors today, or they are well aware of the mechanisms that already exist today. I think it would be right to find out at the beginning of this case. And the other thing is about wasting. Exploitation of funds to compensation. No cent has been paid for today - no cent, no euro - for this. If that's the case, even if... Despite the fact that our vaccines are the safest and without any side effects... but if it happens, what was the waste you can talk about today, if that's the cost... has not been performed. The third and last moment. This is about creating a sense of safety for people who are in doubt today - to vaccinate or not to vaccinate, motivated by concerns about their state of health. And here its sense of security costs much more than all possible compensations that could and could not be. And I think it is extremely important morally if such a norm appears in law and not in several negotiations in committee meetings or ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U261	I closed the debate. Mr. Rancan, will you say something else on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U262	Thank you. On behalf of the Commission, therefore, once again, there was a discussion about this, and none of the members of the coalition made it clear why and how the financing of insurers with additional state resources under the existing system, that compensation can be received and we have just supported the proposals, as well as on the average of these... health damage and for severe, and also not for severe... if such a system already exists... The majority of members of the coalition were not convinced by the Commission that insurers should still be financed separately. So I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U263	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour 23. - Dombrovskis and Papule's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 27, for - 51, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U264	24. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. It is about state and municipal capital companies whose main activity is healthcare... and hospitals... on their right to organise voluntary work, because currently the Voluntary Work Act does not provide for such rights for them, but, given the situation of the community, such a need may arise. And the second part of the proposal states that in this case these volunteers... volunteer workers are not, however, covered by the same hospital, given that they do not have the appropriate resources. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U265	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U266	25. - the proposal by Saeima Member Jūlia Stepanenko, in which she proposes to exclude paragraph 25 from the transitional provisions laying down certain cases. For example, that for... if the staff member (official) has been suspended by certain rules, the period of suspension shall be counted from the date of the decision. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U267	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U268	Colleagues, consistently this is another article which introduced an unlawful framework for the distortion of labour law and, yes, to the transitional provisions, there is another remark that I also call for the exclusion of outside... together with my previous proposals. I would like to add that... Unfortunately, unfortunately, it has to be said here that a large part of the Saeima, for incomprehensible reasons, has created a situation at last sitting which obviously does not allow this draft law to be stopped. I think that every Member should explain to his constituents why he has acted this way or otherwise about such actions, so it is understandable that this draft law will enter into the Constitutional Court early or late. In view of the fact that members of the opposition are in some way divided - for joys to Kariņš and coalition - the Constitutional Court is likely to see not the application of Members of the Saeima, but constitutional complaints from individuals who will be duly substantiated. I therefore, of course, also call for preparations to be made for Mr Rancan, if he has no such responsibility, for his actions and for his words, for all the consequences that Mr Rancan will have produced with this style of his commission, without inviting and not giving the floor to the social partners, and of course to divide society with his statements, which, in principle, are hateful. I will also call on the whole not to support this draft law and will call for my proposal to be supported. And I really hope that Latvian society will have followed this debate and the whole process of adopting this law, as well as the actions of members of the Saeima - practical action, namely practical action! - defending the interests of Latvian citizens. Thank you. I call for my proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U269	I closed the debate. Mr. Rancan, what will you say on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U270	On behalf of the Commission, this has been discussed again, and it is clear that this proposal in principle affects the whole of the draft law, and it has been rejected. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U271	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 25. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 30, for - 52, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U272	The next draft law, 26, contains a proposal from the Saeima Member Ivars Zarins, in which he intends to add to the transitional provisions that the Cabinet of Ministers should issue rules on prioritization of patients by 15 November this year. In the Commission, this proposal is not supported by a representative of the Ministry of Health who is aware that such a regulation on prioritising patients and on medical personnel exists.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U273	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U274	So this proposal is about setting a time limit for those regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers that are already provided for and should be issued by law. So, specifically, the rules on restricted intensive therapy... principles and criteria for the use of therapeutic resources and prioritising patients. Why has this proposal been tabled? Because... I don't know what the Ministry of Health told you there, but did you also invite the health sector, because one of the reasons why - and we will see this today - this departure of the Minister of Health why medical... the whole health sector requested a resignation from the Minister for Health... then one of the reasons was that there are no these principles, that they are not designed, that this situation is actually now taking place... it can stand up, threatens to stand up, but there are no principles, they are not drawn up. And so I also made my proposal that now is the last moment to do all of this, that we set a specific deadline within which the Cabinet of Ministers should issue it. If it is issued, I would invite me to name this number of regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, definitely you representatives of the Ministry of Health then have it... informed if they... because otherwise you are simply deceived and they have been lies. Perhaps I've made a mistake. Perhaps the health sector as a whole does not know that there are such rules, they are hidden, and simply the officials have not shown them to anyone. And we... The health sector therefore had this unjustified despair and the unjustified request of the Minister for Health to resign. So please give me the number of these Cabinet Regulations. If there is no such number, I am calling for this proposal to be supported, because it is relevant and important for the whole health sector and for each of us if we are concerned about putting in order the whole story that is going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U275	I closed the debate. Mr. Rancan, please, on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U276	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that we have no reason not to believe in the industry of the Ministry of Health. I'd like to say that the speech... Such regulation exists in Annex 24 to the national disaster medical plan, entitled ‘Use of resources limited to intensive care during an emergency situation in the Covid-19 pandemic (priority of intensive care patients)’... up-to-date. On the other hand, with regard to another... certain cases, there is limited availability status. I'm not going to say that in the details. In any case, such regulation exists. And I have no doubt that this is the case. I therefore call for this proposal to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U277	Please call me! To be put to the vote on 26. - Member Zarin's proposal! Please, let's vote! About - 28, against - 51, abstaining - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U278	And the last one in this bill, or 27. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau containing editorial clarifications of the transitional provisions of the law. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U279	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U280	Dear President, Dear colleagues, As a matter of fact, we're here. I am talking about this whole draft law. Since, to say, vaccines were available, the task of the government was to ensure the vaccination of the population. It quickly became clear that vaccinations in large numbers prevent hospitalisation, prevent death, or prevent infection. Even for quite some time now, we know that the highest risk of hospitalisation, death, is for so-called risk groups, that is, for people who are old... mainly those over 50 years of age. It has been quite a long time since it was clear that it was the risk groups that had to be vaccinated as a matter of priority in order to prevent hospital overload. I mean, seniors, old people. Here, colleagues, I remind you once again of the words of the famous American writer Azimov that violence, coercion, is the last instance of incompetentness. Those who learn can convince... The highest pilotage, of course, is to convince with arguments, facts. Well, if it doesn't work -- maybe so, say, with gentle, gentle pressure, with prizes, with positive encouragement. Then to those who don't even get this... It is now the last instance of incompetentness - to begin to do so in a forced manner. Colleagues! You may know that as early as spring, about April, the Head of Government asked the Ministry of Justice to assess the issues of compulsory vaccination. It was assigned to the Ministry of Justice, and this May the Ministry of Justice also submitted to the Government an information report entitled ‘Possible means of vaccinating against Covid-19 infections’. This report has been signed by the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns. On the basis of this report, the government chose not to go at least at the time of the compulsory vaccination, because this report, I would say, quite... It is quite unequivocally said that compulsory vaccination is a final means of achieving the objective, which could be counterproductive and so on. I'll remind you... As I said, under this report, there is a signature by the Minister of Justice, Bordan. I and my colleagues, of course, understand very well that, if there is an emergency in the country, if the hospitals are full (without exaggeration), absolutely full, then, of course, it takes extraordinary steps. Of course, if public health is at stake, the existence of a health care system, yes, the exceptional situation requires exceptional steps. Today, the government is asking us to support these extraordinary steps, but the exceptional steps that are being taken today are necessary because the government itself was unable, either with words or arguments or with money, even though money was spent very much, to convince people to vaccinate, particularly groups at risk. Therefore, although I and my colleagues can agree that the emergency requires exceptional steps, we cannot in any way agree to the whole path that has taken us, our society, to this stage. And no matter how many governments refuse to name the perpetrators or even look for the perpetrators at all, it's... it is on the government's conscience that we are today where we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U281	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, what about the 27th proposal?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U282	Thank you on behalf of the Commission. There is nothing to add to proposal 27.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U283	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 27. - The Legal Bureau's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 65, for - 5, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U284	Therefore, colleagues, all the proposals in this draft law have been examined. I call for support to be given to this draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U285	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” in the second, final, reading! Please, let's vote! For - 52, for - 27, for - 2. The law is passed. On the agenda, under the heading ‘Conclusion of the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust’. Members Maris Mičerevskis, Didzis Šmits, Edgars Tavars, Armands Krauze, Uldis Augulis, Viktors Valainis, Māris Kučinskis, Jānis Dūklavs, Ivars Zarins, Arturs Rubiks, Boriss Cilevičs, Vitalijs Orlovs, Jānis Krišāns, Edgars Kucins, Jānis Tutins, Valerijs Agešins and Ivans Ribakovs have submitted a draft decision on the expression of distrust to the Minister of Health Daniels Pavluts. Member of the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U286	Hello, honourable colleagues! I think that, especially after today's long discussions, I think and fear more and more that I will be giving a very long speech. I even heard the rumors that I was reading the last novel of Karina Račko in my speech today, but that will not be the case this time. Usually, when speaking, I always want to find some great person of the past and borrow something from his talk. I will not hide that I am looking for something today, especially from Abraham Lincoln, but unfortunately history is repeated as a farce and a show, so I did not find anything that could apply to today in Lincoln's speeches. Something useful to borrow, I found only the “Monty Python flying circus” scan for the dead papagal. I think part of you have seen it, but about it a little later. I have recently criticised you a lot, my colleagues, that you are often on the parliamentary platform without knowing what you are talking to, what you want to say at all, and no less important question - to whom. It was also a question I asked myself when I was writing this talk yesterday night. I do not know if I have answered this question to the end and whether I will be better than you, who have been discredited so much, but in the end I stated that this speech will be for myself and therefore for you, because I believe that all of us, no matter how much we want to be different, are quite similar. Before the Speaker of the Saeima denies me that I am not talking about the subject, or I am talking to the hall, I will begin with the primary question. Why should Daniel Pavlut resign from his office as Minister for Health? Why do I need it? Why do you need it and, in the end, why do you need it yourself for Daniel Pavilut? I'll start with the good for Mr. Pavluta. I hope that all of us, or at least most of us, wanted to do something good for the Latvian state and society we live in. I am quite sure that Daniel Pavlut certainly wanted this, he set ambitious goals himself, not in the most difficult situation. I can't say that everything was very charming in health care, and then Daniel Pavlut came and screwed everything up. In healthcare, we have long-standing, permissive problems, and there is no fault with Daniel Pavlut. He took office, under the leadership of the previous minister, when the purchase of vaccines had been demolished, there were scandals, and let us be honest, Mr Pavļuta also did not receive governments in particular... and, to a lesser extent, support from the opposition. As he himself correctly pointed out, Latvia was in the position that the countries usually experience in the war. Unfortunately, Mr Pavluta has failed to achieve his objectives. Moreover, I did not hear that he or, to be honest, someone else allowed us to be the worst in the world. In terms of vaccination coverage, until recently we were among the worst in the European Union, while the disease was the highest in the world. The preparedness of hospitals and doctors to this wave of the pandemic will be higher than last winter due to the fact that we will have foreign assistance, not because we are well prepared for it. Almost a year has passed, and doctors have asked for Pavilut’s resignation. Communication from the Ministry has been bad not only with doctors, but also with the rest of Latvia, in my opinion, communication has not been correct. Yes, I do not deny that the Minister has tried. We all like in Latvia that people are trying, but the result this time is a disaster. People are not sure, and doctors, as well as experts, have not been heard. Perhaps Mr. Pavlut has tried, but there has been no fruit in his efforts. I think that he himself can confirm that these indicators, as we now have, were not his objective when he took up his post almost a year ago. Yes, I have also heard that the fault is the part of society that does not vacate; the fault is the family doctors; the blame is the coalition partners who have not listened; the fault is the opposition that has dealt with demagogy, mixing people's heads with light and all kinds of conspiracy theories about the harmfulness of vaccines, not to mention democracy, human rights, even the Holocaust and the Constitution. I also recently saw Mr Pavilut's reminder - yes, I said that the virus will reap our seniors in the autumn. But I think it's like if the “Titanic” captain survived in a 1912 disaster and said – but I told you there was an iceberg, but the cornerman turned the corner late, people wanted to party and the orchestra was too loud. Daniel, so you're a captain in the health sector, the iceberg was already noticed by experts, your task was not to run on it, but unfortunately it has happened. I have also heard that the horse does not change for the change, but here I want to return to Monty Python - this horse is a dead horse, it has stopped being a horse, it has already done everything he can and has not met. This horse stays on track just because you, dear colleagues, have made her milky. Of course, it is good for coalition partners that there is someone who continues to fight windmills unsuccessfully and looks worse than you do. It seems that even members of Daniel Pavlut’s party do not worry about Daniel’s failure, and at times even it brings joy that is expressed as compassion. The elections are coming, and I am being accused that I have encouraged this depression to gain enormous popularity, which I will unfortunately not get from this. I would rather condemn you, my colleagues, for wanting to leave Daniel Pavlut in office. You want to get rid of your responsibility, you want to leave a dead horse on the road, so that no one can notice that you are responsible for what is happening in the country. But in the country is not good, friends, really not good. This is a situation where you will not be helped by Daniel Pavilut's remaining in office. To be honest, the same thing will not be good for Mr Pavļuta himself. I know, though, that there are many among us who will be happy about this, but I would nevertheless call for such little joys to be put aside at this point and remember - while there are intrigues being put up here so that one can put a hand in the wheels of each other, as long as doctors look after the hundreds of people who die while thirsting at the fans of the lungs. For us, of course, it will be more convenient for almost everyone here, except for perhaps Mr Pavluta, if the horse stays on the transitions, but it will be enough to fool people - this horse is dead and he will not lead further, even if, as many hope, in November the wave of the pandemic will come to an end and the horse will be able to excite flowers. I call on you, however, to remember why we are here. Some time ago - some earlier, some more recent, but all of us had the feeling that we wanted to do something for Latvia. This is the time to do so and to send the Minister for Health's resignation. This is the moment when the Prime Minister should take the lead over the health sector himself, choosing professional advisors. This is the moment when we can thank Mr Paviluta and wish him all the best in the future. I hope he will draw conclusions, understand that such friends do not need enemies, and maybe the ancient Daniel Pavlut will ever recover, who long ago wanted to change something so that we all live in the best in Latvia. You can't tell about the work done when the result is the last place in the world. It is not possible to enter into a dialogue with the representatives of their industry when they have asked for the termination of all the dialogues. All this should have been done well back. Yes, vaccination volumes are beginning to rise now, and this wave of the pandemic is likely to end - if not this year, then almost safely at the beginning of next year - but, without changing the Minister to the transitions, it is precisely for the next year that we will probably be back where we are now. The populists will be even louder, the doctors will be even more burned, and the people will be even more swollen. I therefore call for support for the resignation of the Minister for Health. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U287	Dear colleagues, The debate will continue after the break. The registration of Members' presence is over. I'd take a break of 15 minutes... if we resume work at 14.50 a.m. So let us resume the debate at 2.50 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U288	Dear Members, Honourable Members! Minister! We shall continue the examination of the agenda of the remote extraordinary sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 4 November 2021. Before the break, we started to examine the draft decision on distrust to the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavluts. On behalf of the applicants, the Member, Mr Mičerevski, spoke. Let us start a debate. The name of the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavlut. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U289	Dear Member of the Speaker of the Saeima. Dear Members and honourable Members, First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to thank those doctors who are fighting for the health and life of 1554 Covid-19 patients at this very moment, while we are talking at the Saeima, in an irregular working week after week and month. I would like to thank those doctors who continue to speak, encourage, convince their patients to vaccinate, go to their homes or take care of vaccination in their own practices, and those people of Latvia who have fulfilled their ethical duty and by vaccinating have protected themselves from serious illness, but society as a whole - from unnecessary suffering and death in crowded hospitals. I would like to thank my colleagues in the health services, which continue to organise health care and vaccination tirelessly. Yes, we are going hard, but we are doing the best we can in these circumstances. And I would also like to thank those leaders of public and political opinion who have tried to bring society together during this time, not to divide, incite, step up to the other side or just look for the perpetrators. Colleagues! On 10 September Denmark lifted restrictions and fully returned to normal life. 75 percent of adults and 95 percent of people over 50 years of age have been vaccinated there. Studies show that citizens' high trust in doctors, science and the state has been a decisive factor in Denmark's success. They show that one of the main threats in the fight against the pandemic is the dispute, which often begins between politicians and opinion leaders and then spreads to the wider public. In a time of long crisis, where the burden on citizens is rising, public support for political decisions is inevitably declining, and the polarisation of politicians accelerates this reduction. Denmark had a favourable situation to deal with the pandemic, as the Danish political parties have a rich history of cooperation. The Danish opposition, for example, prioritised the fight against the pandemic, rather than the possible benefits of elections, which could result from the division and polarisation of society. In part, this common understanding was supported by the general commitment of politicians to follow science, including medical research (Sound Break). ... and so on. The Danes relied on politicians and health institutions to take decisions in the fight against the pandemic. In turn, Danish politicians and authorities trusted the Danish people that they would act responsibly, vaccinate and follow the guidelines. Unfortunately, in Denmark, too, the situation has deteriorated again at the end of October. The 75 percent vaccination coverage is not yet sufficient. Covid-19 is an unprecedented challenge, so the Danes are considering restoring facial masking and, like us, have begun a booster vaccination. I take the example of Denmark because there is only one strategy for overcoming the Covid-19 pandemic: universal vaccination and cooperation. Cooperation between citizens, parties, and society as a whole. There's just no other way. Today, Latvia is in the epicenter of the Covid crisis (a lot has been said about it today in the Saeima) because we lacked solidarity and clear direction towards this common goal of society: exit from the pandemic. Some politicians have deliberately polarised society, questioned the recommendations of scientists and doctors, so that they sow doubts among the people and exploit them for their political purposes. As a result, we started the autumn wave as an under-vaccinated society and today we have a medical system operating in practically war conditions. A little bit of history. The vaccination process is a mirror of the problems accumulated in the country for years in mutual relations - state relations with the population, mutual relations - in a weakened health system, as well as in public and political health skills. It is naive to hope that this can be changed in the short term by means of a vaccination campaign. In these circumstances, my colleagues in healthcare have done their best to vaccinate as many people as possible. We created electronic and telephone application sites, expanded vaccination centres across Latvia, introduced a system for coordinating vaccination process, involved, supported family doctors who are joining the vaccination process more and more. Vaccines were also available in closer people's daily life since summer - in supermarkets, events and trips. Almost two million pots have been made, of which almost a third were conducted by family doctors. 29 large vaccination centres, 2549 exit vaccinations, 23 shopping centres across Latvia, more than 10 thousand home vaccinations, and almost a million individual telephone calls made with family doctors, inviting, encouraging and convincing vaccinations. Particular attention has been paid since the start of vaccination to risk groups, chronic patients and elderly people, both by initially giving them the opportunity to vaccinate more quickly than others, by making individual calls and by going to the wards to vaccinate at home. As early as May, the vaccination system we developed was ready to vaccinate all Latvians. Number of vaccines... and the infrastructure was ready and sufficient. Unfortunately, all these activities were faced with a serious problem: citizens were in doubt and did not agree to vaccination and left the decision behind. The wide-ranging side effects of the media, the disinformation of various types and the lies in social networks confused people's minds. The second wave shaking in spring and the epidemiologically peaceful summer did not contribute to a sense of danger. They must have felt that they would not be affected by the cow. I admit that we have failed in our efforts to increase the readiness of the people of Latvia to listen to the arguments of doctors and scientists, to call 8989, to go to the vaccination centre themselves or to motivate and take their loved ones to them... no line. When the first wave of vaccination fell in early summer, the Ministry of Health offered a number of positive additional incentives, including an interpretative newspaper in two languages and a vaccination lottery. These initiatives did not receive political support and were rejected, but the explanatory work on vaccination did not stop at any time. Purchases have been made to provide information in cooperation with national and regional media to target different groups of society in both Latvian and Russian. 15 cooperation projects have been carried out with regional media, four national publishers, two terrestrial television broadcasting interpretative and counterproductive information in a way that is perceived by the various target groups. The content produced - more than 100 units - has been published on the Internet, on social networks and is accessible to all. Five information forums have been organised in all parts of Latvia for family doctors, more than 50 informative seminars have been organised for different companies, organisations, 11 online conversations have been held on Facebook with participation of various medical experts recognised in Latvia and the provision of answers to questions asked by the population, also on diagnostic groups. Cooperation with Russian-speaking media has been established, paying particular attention to Latgale media organisations. And more and more. During the summer, it was found that the unvaccinated part of the population, even if addressed directly, did not agree with vaccination and that the change in vaccination coverage was slow. We therefore asked for additional resources to be made available to family doctors by increasing funding for each vaccination episode, as they are the closest trusted persons of the elderly. After more harmonisation, this issue was also decided positively, and now family doctors pay as much as 25 euros for the vaccination of patients at risk, and we provide an additional coverage fee for the results achieved. Returning to the summer events, it was already soon, in the light of the situation, clear that the preparedness of the population to vaccinate is critically low, and the government discussed the need for an obligation to vaccinate large groups in society. The decision to direct the Saeima law on the obligation to vaccinate was confirmed by the government on 4 July, and the opposition members of the Saeima immediately announced that they would block the adoption of this law, prevent it from being declared, cover the signature of a referendum and try to delay its entry into force. After these statements, as well as after the false, misleading and intrusive actions of Gobzem, Shleser and others, in August, the state’s senior officials encouraged the repeal of this law. Consequently, the decision on the obligation to vaccinate was taken... adopted by the government in October now in fact at the same time as the emergency order - only when more rapid changes to vaccination began at an extremely bad epidemiological situation. Just a fact, colleagues. In October 240 thousand people were vaccinated in Latvia. It is two and a half times more than in August or September. In particular, the vaccination rate of the elderly has increased rapidly. In October more people over the age of 60 were vaccinated than in July, August and September together. Today, at least 73 percent of 50, 60 and 70-year-olds have received one vaccine. For the future. Vaccination has now involved all: public, private sector, local government, spiritual confederation and voluntary... attention and resources. Elders continue to call family doctors, librarians and cultural workers, as well as many others that we have called to help... together with the municipalities. The rate of vaccination in recent weeks has indeed grown rapidly, 70 percent of Latvian society is in the vaccination process. I am very pleased and thank you very much to all those taking part. Society is like a stoned tower that would collapse if they didn't support each other, but I have to admit with bitterness, with my own bitterness, that the strongest incentive to vaccinate a large part of society has proved to be, forced means. The obligation to vaccinate many professional groups of the population, the obligation to vaccinate completely all family doctors, the setting of time limits for addressing patients at risk, the widespread illness, the course of severe disease and death this autumn, rather than belief in science, doctors or solidarity among the population and a shared awareness of the crisis among the political forces. Many other patients cannot be treated properly at this time, as hospitals are overcrowded. In October, 520 people died with the community’s diagnosis, and November will unfortunately be as tragic. We all know what is the reason, the main reason, for this harvest of death - it is slow vaccination in summer and early autumn, especially among our elderly people. Now the hope of achieving the necessary results has come back, but only now that we, as a society, have faced a real tragedy. Every person’s call can save lives for his parents, friends, or even neighbors. Special assistance is useful in addressing Russian-speaking and other minority populations as individually as possible in Riga's microdistricts, Latgale and elsewhere. While the vaccination coverage is still insufficient, there are and will be a need for safety measures. Last winter, a cautious and science-based policy of restrictions was implemented. In the spring, an agreement was reached on the luxury principle - a pandemic management approach step by step. Regrettably, in the lobbying of various sectors, there was also a feeling of injustice, which may have dispelled the understanding of the important and irrelevant, and people are rejected by hand. As a result, the disease slowed down and fatigue from the community reached enormous proportions. The epidemiological safeguards work and deliver results only if they are understood and respected, if there is a change in public behaviour, reducing people-to-people contacts and preventing the virus from infecting future victims. Unfortunately, the luxophore proved to be as effective as our ability to take into account the signals. We have already warned in the summer that there will be an exacerbation of the crisis in the autumn due to the delta of the virus and that restrictions will be needed. We told politicians and the media. Unfortunately, everything that affected security measures in the summer was unpopular (is not clear.) theme in society as well as in political circles. We were told that we would stop fearing and that voters would not understand us. The forecasts of scientists and experts were largely unheard of. For example, there was also a abandonment of the traffic lights principle. At the end of August, when the 14-day cumulative rate was approaching 120 cases, it was up to the June decision to automatically enter into force certain safeguards, but it was precisely as a result of the public opinion and the industry lobby that the government refused this principle on 31 August. In view of the increasing levels of infection, simpler, better understood safety measures based on the principle of safe and partially safe zones, which could have been made by vaccination, testing and a system of certificates, have been developed. The green regime set minimum requirements for vaccinated and flaked certificates, the yellow regime provided for minimum disruptions to the provision of services and the economy, providing services also for the people who had received the test, and the red regime was intended to work only for the first-needed services without tests and certificates, but with the highest safety requirements: ventilation, vaccination requirement for workers, control of visitor flows, and so on. Security controls were improved, in which not only police and services were to be involved, but people, service providers and employers also played a greater role. Unfortunately, these measures were no longer sufficient at the end of September to prevent the exponential spread of the virus in Latvian society, and the measures introduced in late September and early October (the sound defect). ... The spread of the virus has become uncontrollable, and in the end we reached a three-fold increase in the prevalence of the virus compared to the worst of last winter. We also got to the hospital overload. Colleagues, we started preparing for a possible hospital crisis in early spring, concerned about the possible increase in the prevalence of the virus alpha variant. The 80 million funding requested by hospitals was granted, and more than a thousand patient care stations were re-established and equipped in the summer, 260 medical facilities of different sizes were purchased, reception and reconstruction of intensive care units were started. According to the Brussels Capital Region, the IRIS-H are the municipalities and the IRIS-H and the IRIS-H and the IRIS-H are the municipalities of the IRIS-H. The setting up of beds or stations necessary for the treatment of the community is not inexpensive. One medium... The cost of intensive care beds, or the cost of a station, can reach as much as 117 thousand euros, while the average cost of one intensive care station at the level 2 is 180 thousand euros, for example, in the Eastern hospital. No country can create and maintain, during peacetime, the war time capacity that is needed in emergencies such as this, which we are currently experiencing in hospitals. That is why a European Union civil protection mechanism has been set up in which Latvia has applied for assistance and we are already receiving it. The government is also continuing to invest additional funds in hospitals in Latvia to help them cope with the congestion - the overload that we could have prevented by timely vaccination. Dear Members and honourable Members, As a Minister of Health, I felt that I was in war. This war has not yet ended, some battles have been lost, others have been defeated. We are at the most difficult moment, but I am sure that together we will win not only this battle, but also the whole war. The health sector is doing its utmost, thousands of people's health work continues to prevent the disaster for 12 months. It is not fair to the medical staff that they have to pass on the greatest severity of public doubt and of our politicians' indecisions and disputes. I am a crisis minister, and my main task is to stop the pandemic and return a normal life in Latvia by the beginning of spring. For this, I am giving all my energy. When there is a crisis, humane will to seek the guilty, angry one another, and that is understandable, but it is more important than ever for us to stick together and unite our society. We are, please, tolerant to each other - vaccinated against unvaccinated, one batch against the other! We must set an example - both in the Saeima and in the Cabinet - because the intolerance now provoked by the pandemic divides the tired society. The high rates of vaccination allow us to see the light at the end of the tunnel. We can come out of this crisis as a stronger society, as a stronger country that has won not only the Covide virus, but also the plague of fragmentation. Thank you very much to those 70 percent of Latvia's population who have already completed or started vaccination. We can see that every day it becomes more difficult to believe in mothers that a pandemic is not real, seeing the tense situation in hospitals, and seeing more and more clearly... victims of the pandemic, those who have suffered severe congestion and those who have died. Many of these sufferings had to be prevented by vaccination. We see that every day those who have previously doubted about vaccination go to vaccination. We can see that pandemic denies, the distributors of the lies, are beginning to calm down, because these lies and inventions are becoming increasingly detached from reality, but it is still important for us, as a country, that those who have not received the vaccine do not delay for tomorrow, but apply today. Yes, maybe sometimes you have to wait in line with your family doctor, maybe some vaccination points are emptyer, others are fuller, but please let us overcome all the inconveniences and overcome this crisis as well! The health sector is doing everything in its power, and it would only be fair if we were to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U290	We are continuing the debate. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you. Consequently, the order of the debate is initially given the floor to Members who have applied for a debate in writing. The next is Member Inese Voika, then Member Vita Anda Steel, and then successively those who have applied to the platform e-Saema. The name of Member Inese Voika. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U291	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Hello, colleagues! Thank you, Minister, for your speech. I want to remind all of us of the spring 2020 when the Covid-19 pandemic just started. One of the most striking episodes is where the head of the government Krišjānis Kariņš and the Minister for Health Ilze Viņķele stand at the door of the meeting room of the Cabinet of Ministers and Ilze Viņķele says: “Now we will have to change life, but by cooperating we will be able to do so.” Her speech was to rely on Latvian society - that we will be able to cooperate and overcome the virus attack. At that time, in the spring of 2020, I would say, helping a counselor like fear of the unknown and coordinating the work of the government with experts, Latvia was well placed and appreciated as one of the best countries to deal with the pandemic... all over the world. In the future, in some steps to overcome the pandemic... did not go so smoothly, and part of last autumn's and winter's mistakes we are currently analysing in the parliamentary committee of inquiry. However, the pandemic - as never before - highlighted what was written in Article 2 of the Satversme and to which many people often do not believe in everyday life - that Latvia's power belongs to the people. First. It belongs to each of us literally. We can be the bearer of both positive and negative change, depending on whether we have a positive or a negative cord test. Secondly. Society’s behaviour, relationships, and trust in power determine how we can cope with a pandemic. And here's the question for all, and especially for politicians, including this applicant: what have you, for yours, for yours, for yours, for yours... Applicants... What is your role in helping you cope with the pandemic? I hope you will say this in the debate - as you have involved the people - that you have contributed to confidence in the vaccination process. This pandemic crisis has shown many weaknesses in the area of health, which - it is no longer a secret anymore, and thank God, we all know it now at least in the Saeima) have been starved for years. We have spent as little money on it as almost nobody else in the European Union. And about this, I hope, those applicants of distrust who have been in power and who have responded to the health sector for many years. In recent years, medical workers' salaries have been increased, health management improved, but the deep crisis cannot be overcome in a few years, and much work still needs to be done. And this should be taken into account by any minister from any party in this position. With all the above... It was not surprising that the birth card in mid-year looked very proportional to the health sector financing card, where Bulgaria, Romania and Latvia are in the last places. But Latvia can! Having overcome the shortage of vaccines at the beginning of the year, provided free and free access to a variety of vaccines, is still approaching the population... averages across Europe. Today Latvia is halfway through the list of countries in terms of vaccination coverage, leaving behind... Estonia is also ahead of us and the vaccination of seniors is also improving. However, overcoming the pandemic must not be seen in a simplified way, as there are many factors that are interrelated. Outbreaks of the pandemic and first place in terms of morbidity as recently for Latvia... Many European countries have gone through these years, from Italy to Spain, Portugal, the Czech Republic, Lithuania and now Estonia. An outbreak of pandemic leads to a very difficult situation for hospitals, as no country retains the amount of hospital services needed at the top of the outbreak. But no one can or will stay without help. In order to provide health care for all residents of Latvia, there are hundreds of people working daily, working tirelessly, and thank you very much to them. Without consistent action and common understanding of the main enemy - the virus - we could not ensure - and the Minister plays a major role here - that this invisible work is going on and that help is provided. Hospitals are ready to continue working with the minister, and the most important thing at the moment is patients and their health, rather than political exclusion. Thank you to our government coalition partners who understand and have supported the work of the Minister for Health. Clearly, we must grow up as a society in which every member of it feels and can carry out his or her responsibility. And here we can start with ourselves. We are voting against, and every Member, especially those who signed this request, has called friends, acquaintances and particularly seniors, especially in those regions where the vaccination coverage is the lowest! This will be much, much more effective than this untargeted demand in overcoming the pandemic. It is never too late to cooperate and work well for society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U292	Name of Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U293	Hello, colleagues! We are at the epicenter of the crisis. Every day hundreds and thousands get sick. Every day, dozens of our people lose their fight against the Covidvirus. This crisis must be managed, the risks must be aware, the experts must listen, the time needed to act. We expect this both from the government as a whole and from the health minister in particular. But it is also expected from the Saeima - that the Saeima, through its decisions, will help to resolve the crisis rather than take steps to deepen it. The Minister for Health, Daniel Pavluta, must continue his work. Today we have already talked a great deal about the Covid crisis, about the shortcomings in managing the crisis, and also about the fact that it could have been otherwise, if we had invested properly in the healthcare system for many years. The Minister is responsible not only for the crisis, but for the health system, for all those working in the health sector who, during peacetime, care for our health, but also for our lives in war or crisis. Minister Paviluts is also able to see after the crisis, to see that the system needs to be improved, to invest in health, primarily in people. I would therefore remind you of a number of major reforms and improvements. First of all, the medical remuneration model. Our ability to cope with this crisis and ensure public health in the future depends directly on whether or not we have a sufficient number of doctors - professional, qualified doctors - who work with a full return here in Latvia. The new salary model has been developed together with the industry and looks forward to its progress in the Cabinet of Ministers, where concerns about its costs are expressed. The new model is important for those who are currently working in the sector, but especially for those who are still considering working for medicine. Colleagues, our doctors are currently carrying out a crisis with superhuman effort. The number of medical staff is a narrow place in the system. We felt it before the crisis, we feel it now, during the heat of the crisis, and perhaps we will also feel it after the crisis, because without this systemic reform we will not be able to overcome it. We are currently looking at the budget for next year at the Saeima, and there we will see a lot of new health care: improving and extending oncology services; patients will feel that additional funds will provide more access to palliative care; improved treatment of patients with rare diseases; wider support for vaccination against influenza; tools for the continued administration of insulin to children; additional services for children with au-spectrum disorders; means for epidural anaesthesia; an extended public-paid programme for assisted reproduction; new programmes for mental health; increased availability of outpatient services. Colleagues, Health Minister Daniel Pavluts works. The main work during the crisis is solutions to the stress of hospitals and maintaining the pace of vaccination, but in the long term our ability to overcome this and future crises depends on whether we see the system as a whole and are able to invest properly in it. Today, every Member will have the opportunity to climb the table and criticise, but at the end of this parliamentary debate, the Saeima must have a clear decision: the government continues to manage the crisis, the Minister of Health continues to work in the government. Colleagues, hundreds and thousands of people get sick every day, they lose their community every day. We in the Saeima can prolong the crisis by throwing spies on the way to those who work or by making efforts to help Latvia overcome this crisis more quickly.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U294	The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U295	Dear colleagues, I think that people's distrust in the government is so great that if ministers promoted even the use of aspirin or activated carbon, then most of the population would hardly listen to them. You'll ask: why is that? I will answer: there have been too many lies and unfulfilled promises about which ministers very often forget about some insignificant misunderstanding. In addition, the Cabinet has a “money has more than ever” atmosphere. Even the quota practice of the coalition Members has been restored, which, in my opinion, seems to be after an attempt to catch voters before the elections. And this is done by politicians who, a few years ago, in the media and even from the parliamentary tribunal, called the quota system legal corruption, deplorable action, and proud that there are no quotas for members in the state budget. Intrust with the government is the creation of the government itself. At the same time, the Covid-19 pandemic has allowed citizens to see better how far public administration is in a deep crisis. The pandemic has removed the incoherence at all levels of power - the short-sightedness of the ministers, the inability of the government to reach out to the public, to talk to people logically and respectfully, and to give a helping hand at a time of crisis. In September and October, the number of Covid-19 patients increased rapidly, as in last autumn. When the morbidity and mortality increased sharply in the autumn of last year and especially in winter, the Cabinet of Ministers was dominated by obvious confusion and ignorance about what to do. The restrictions were illogical and contradictory. All of this was covered by a mess (not to say irregularities) with the purchase of vaccines and the allocation of money to the expensive, unnecessary and incapable vaccination project office. Unfortunately, vaccination issues in Latvia are still handled by persons without adequate education in the field of health care. At one of the meetings of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission, the former State Secretary of the Ministry of Health, Daina Mūrmane–Umbrashko, asked whether the creation of a vaccination project office was necessary, admitted that initially the work of the vaccination project office was hindered by its employees’ non-orientation system. The office and its manager have not managed to motivate the public, and due to laxity and silly mistakes, advertising posters with Kaspars Gorkša significantly reduced the confidence in vaccination among many people. I think that 10 months is a long enough period to be able to do much. And yet it is not known what the government, for example, did during the relaxing summer run, to address the pensioners, this most vulnerable part of the anti-virus society. I think advertising posters with exposed shoulders were not the most convincing argument. How could it happen that during a period of one and a half years the communication problem could not be solved in Latvia by marketing professionals in the flooded country? It also seems that the Minister himself cannot, unfortunately, find a common language with those working in the health sector. The decisions of the Cabinet in connection with Covid-19 are chaotic, difficult to understand and often practically impossible. This is what society as a whole is seeing, assessing and drawing conclusions, and one of the conclusions is that the government cannot be trusted; its actions in the context of a pandemic of a community are questionable. In my opinion, much of the population has already had a reflex - if the government calls for something, it is certainly not good. Indeed, at this time, the Cabinet and power parties cannot be trusted because they are busy with saving themselves. The government is expected to have fantastic salaries, but for the residents - a feast, however, the Minister of Health Daniels Pavļuts and the Head of Government Krišjānis Kariņš very carefully tell about the achievements and more about the search for scapegoats. The perpetrators are sought everywhere, but not in the government's inability. I would remind you that, in January of this year, the main direction for solving the problem was to place additional beds in hospitals. Ten months later, it appears that the hospital’s capacity has decreased, not increased, despite the huge money spent. Why is that? I guess it's because the cost of one bed has grown up in astronomical scale and in space. Within ten months, the amount of money available to strengthen the capacity of the health system has increased significantly, but if the situation is now critical and long lines are formed at hospitals and vaccination points, then it is quite clear that the real work has failed. The facts are indisputable. The failure to organise the vaccination process, the inability to address the risk groups, the Latvian society now pays the highest price for uselessly wasted millions. And yet, despite rising morbidity and the terrible numbers of the dead, the coalition has decided to prevent the replacement of the Minister of Health. The coalition regards its internal stability above the self-evident principle of democracy: politicians who make catastrophic mistakes must be replaced. It seems that Mr Pavlut will continue to indignify and undermine the government from inside for some time. This is, of course, very brilliant, but in the future it should nevertheless be aimed at the fact that each minister is a professional in the sector. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U296	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U297	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Among other things, I would like to sincerely thank those Latvian doctors who often work more than 24 hours away in hospitals to save people... who are in a difficult situation in hospitals. Many of these people, too... There are thousands of people whose lives have failed to be saved. I would also like to apologize to the medical staff for the fact that Parliament has still failed... with the government at the forefront... in the area of remuneration given to them, that the government has done everything else in the whole summer (to some extent the Saeima all summer) rather than working together in its hand to prepare for the future waves of the crisis, so that patients do not have to invest in hospital garages to have the appropriate infrastructure, specialists, so that we can really be prepared for this, so that there is a logical explanation of the decisions that Parliament really has agreed on. And you can agree if you talk - if you come and talk, if you discuss and explain, and make sure that this happens in Denmark, as happens in developed countries, where people's health, public health and the public's common interest are overestimated by the interests of the coalition or government - by the interests that they want to hold up... chairs. That is why this tragedy that has happened in Latvia is huge. And by listening to the new sin of the Minister for Health Pavilut... or as a dove who says, “I understand, I do, I do!” , but in fact we see all this. We know exactly what it is for Latvia... who has been in contact with and what it has meant. Minister, Minister of Crisis... I'd say, Minister crisis... and things and works that show a terrible tragedy that has hit us all, the whole society, and this is not the first time. This is not the first time that we hear excuses that “we’re doing” that “we’re talking”, but the result is nice, rather sad. The result is tragic. They are ruined families, they are divided societies, they are divided... broken families, people's ruined lives. It is also a fragmented area of health, and medical practitioners are also divided, who among other things called on the Health Minister to resign. It is a pity that the head of government has not done so and that it now needs to be dealt with by Parliament. We need a doll, not a doll, who says, “Insight, mind!” and that everyone else is guilty, but we need a professional. But let the doll fly... All right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U298	The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U299	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, Today, I'm here to talk to... spoke from the Saldus Medical Centre. They too have a full heart. Mr Pavļuta spoke in his defence about the crisis and overload of hospitals, the creation of beds and the costs. Every day in the media, too, there are terrible views with crowded hospitals, frightening predictions and health system collapses. According to the latest news, 21 patients in the Covid-19 at the Riga Eastern Hospital had a bed in a garage where vehicles of the Emergency Medical Care Service have so far entered. Patients are planning to be placed in old hospitals and possibly also in military tents. What makes the situation worse is that doctors are tired, hard to motivate to work, and doctors need rest. With the number of Covid-19 patients growing rapidly, there is also a shortage of beds and specialists in regional hospitals... I'm out. Some hospitals do not deny that it is not far from having to place beds in corridors. The member of the board of SIA “Gulbene Hospitals Association” has told that there are 14 Covid-19 beds in the hospital, where qualified help can be provided, but the 15th sick have recently entered, and there is no place to lay. And Covid-19 patients need specific beds with high oxygen flow. And what Saldus medical center employees say. The sweets in the medical center have been stopped until November 15... They are therefore obliged to stop day-to-day hospital operations, to cancel out outpatient operations. Doctors and nurses shall be on duty at the Centre 24 hours. On Wednesday, 3 November, only a few of the beds in chapter 35 have been filled. 14 beds are equipped with an intensive oxygen supply, and there are now people who are recovering from communion disease, but only a couple of beds are occupied. Nelli Kleinberg, Chairman of the Board of the Saldus Medical Centre, says: “We are ready to rearrange our unit, pick up patients, but it’s that we don’t need anyone. But we are ready to do this.” The National Health Service explains that by mobilising the resources of medical institutions a network of medical institutions has been established and the leading hospital in the region is Liepaja Hospital, which is subject to a lower level of medical institutions. The Liepaja Regional Hospital does not see such opportunities – that Saldus could accommodate patients of the community. One of the reasons - Saldus medical center has only 14 beds capable of providing oxygen. So there's a question: what is it? Is it really better in the garage or tent? It really looks like a political question to me. When you ban from working for a medical center, you don't give patients... Of course, medical centres are in financial difficulty and die their own natural death. Is it knowing that some hospitals are overcrowding and they have to take more patients than is possible at all... just because the money comes with the client? If the Prize and Gulbene Hospital Association hospital has 14 community beds - this is good, and all of them are filled, but Saldus is not enough to have 14 and all 14 stands empty... Tell those doctors, nurses, who sit on empty beds but are ready to work to help? How is the work organized, and to whom is all these things beneficial? How can we at all speak of some kind of trust when we see such experiences? I really very much hope that the Saldus Medical Centre will receive answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U300	The name of Member Eric Pucen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U301	Hello, dear colleagues! We have heard from the head of government and from the government, and also from the Minister for Health, that we are in war conditions, but these people have not seen war and I think they do not even know what war conditions are. At the first wave, the government said it was not ready, it had a lot of unknowns, and of course it was. At the first wave, we had a lot of unknowns. But at the second and third waves nothing has improved. After the first wave, Mrs. Viņķele lost her position, then Daniel Pavilut came. Of course, the work, as he says, was difficult and responsible, but we see that the minister has not met his responsibilities on every occasion of this outbreak. It's not for nothing that we did last week again... I'd call it a theatre played by the head of government for a week... The health organizations were also involved, asking for demission... and then the Prime Minister - he'll think what to do now. It's kind of a mist in the eyes of people, it's pretty kind of... That's a cheap performance. If the Minister does not deal with his duties and if his responsibilities... industry demands the resignation of this minister, so I do not understand what the Head of Government is doing. It is Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš who is co-responsible now that he has not responded. I have only the assumptions why perhaps we cannot and why the coalition cannot vote in favour of the replacement of Daniel Pavlut if a person has not dealt with his work - because we know that there is a public budget that is far enough. As we can see, the quotas of Members are divided and hardly anyone wants to stay without anything, and perhaps, by referring a little bit of history, I will use the words of Mārtiņš Bondars that the quotas of Members are legal bribery. This has happened, and so we can not hope that no one will vote here for Daniel Pavlut's debut. They will stand as a rock, because they have to do it, it is their task. Well, if we... We have heard: in times of crisis, we cannot change horses. Of course, this horse is rotten, but I think it's also a long time ago, and it's time for him to go. It won't be a long time... We'll see... It will take a month, two will pass, and then we will see ravens from coalition parties start flying to the same dead horse around and in the beaks. The closer the elections will be, because their friendship will disappear and the coalition treaty will also be thrown away. We see that there has been a coincidence in circumstances - neither the Minister is able to take responsibility for Maxim's tragedy, nor the Minister is able to take responsibility now that there is a crisis in the health sector. I think there's nothing going to be done here that soon. It will not stop here until we have such a head of government, who is unable to make decisions and whose main thing is to keep this government and then say before the elections: "Well, I have kept this government and I have been working for four years." This government has already fallen on several occasions with these ministerial changes; now it has only formally exchanged ministerial positions. I am absolutely sure that, while we have such an American passport as a head of government, nothing will change here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U302	The name of Member Inguna Reibena.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U303	Hello, honorable present! On 1 January 2019 it was planned to introduce state health insurance, but on 17 January, Ilze Viņķelis and Development/About! At the forefront, the Saeima supported it, all remaining until 1 July of the same year. Ilze Viņķele, who immediately became health ministers, promised a new offer for health care within the next few months, and the coalition was going to start a regular discussion about it (in my experience - already for 18 years), but on 14 May the government and on 6 June also 13. The Saeima conceptually supported the postponement of the national health insurance system until 2021. Does anyone else remember that? You have to say that this year... and so far, nothing has happened and is likely not going to happen, as less than two months are left by the end of the year. As it is unnecessary and endless to remind for years that a responsible, joint and several state health insurance system has been in place in Estonia since 1993 and in Lithuania since 1998. The fact that there is no such in Latvia is the biggest crime against the population of the country, especially the elderly, because in a normal, solidarity-based society young people pay for the elderly and the healthy for the sick. As was mentioned in the public space some time ago, one person's health funding in Latvia is 650 euros, in Estonia - 1540 euros, in Germany - 5200 euros. This also shows that, in the absence of public health insurance, people are not motivated to pay taxes. On October 10, 2019 at the Saeima, due to the request of Prime Minister Artur Krišjānis Kariņš “On legal nihilism at the Cabinet of Ministers regarding ensuring the increase of the statutory funding for the remuneration of health care workers”, I said that politicians have been training the legal nihilism for years, that cynicism, irresponsibility and incompetentness at least in the field of health care financing, but not only, have reached their ceiling, and I called on the Cabinet to decide before all the horrors of the community to declare the emergency situation in health care. The crisis of medical staff and therefore the health system as a whole has been matured for a long time, since the restoration of state independence for the first years. With inadequate public funding, with wage policy for doctors and nurses, with a three-fold suspension of the entry into force of the mandatory state health insurance law. Those who pursued such a policy were indifferent or infidel thought that the health care system in Latvia should be viewed only in the sense of party membership, but now it has really affected everyone - and without party membership. As there is still no orderly, clear and transparent system of financing for health care, even in 2021, we are continuing to pour water through the vessel. In 2018, the state budget allocated 200 million euros more to healthcare than in the past, of which - 80 million for salaries. The health budget has doubled over the last five years, with astronomical communion money. Where and how have these funds been used? Finally. From morning to evening, advertising rolls and all sides of the virus are being scanned at how much the country cares about older people, how vital their health is. Is more cynical and hypocritical? It is not a matter of talking about this, but it is also clear to everyone that we actually live in a paid medical country. Repeatly - fees in the medical country where the average old-age pension is 350 to 400 euros, while one doctor needs at least 30, 45, 60 euros. Very many, very many medicine is simply unavailable. So don't tell me everything's falling apart because of the community. This crisis is not just about the community. The Covid escalated it and turned the mirror against us to see himself in full nakedness.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U304	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U305	Dear President, Dear colleagues, In fact, the tragedy that occurred to Latvia is very typical and predictable. We all know the usual liberal socio-economic method - profit capitalisation and loss socialisation. When money was needed to rescue one commercial bank in 2008 and 2009, the government refused to grant it, but finally took away seven times more credits, which then had to be paid to us all by freezing and reducing wages. This time, in order to fight the community, public authorities say that there is more money than ever before, even though they are busy funds and they will have to be paid for by our children and grandchildren. It seemed that everything turned out as normal, but then there was one annoying disturbance. Six months after the initiation of mass vaccination in Latvia, another massive outbreak of the community began, and the number of deaths is still incredible. What to do? We open a liberal guide, read: “Let’s pull the belts!” Not your dad's gonna drink less, but your son's gonna eat less. In particular, there is currently stress, uncertainty and discomfort in the entire society of Latvia, because the Minister has not done his work in time. I do not think that I would be greatly exaggerating if I said that Daniel Pavlut is now the more disdained minister of the people in the last 30 years. But no partner in the coalition of power will let him go, even if Pavilut turns into a political body in front of us. The association of his parties needs this, because otherwise it will be completely dissolved. The other members of the coalition need him to downgrade his partner's rating, because there is no worse anti-advertisement than Pavlut. That is why he, like a zombie, will walk between us, probably until the end of the parliamentary term, but the suffering to which he sent over one and a half million people, who have never benefited from fraud with money in the fight against the pandemic, forces me to support the Pavluta's resignation requirement. The coalition members put together tens of thousands of euros in their teeth so that they could vote as it should, so that their conscience would remain the power of the person who allowed the shameful failure of vaccination in Latvia. I will vote in favour of the Paukšta Demission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U306	The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U307	Dear President, Colleagues! Looking at and listening to the debate comes in the mind of childhood, where village boys and girls played wreaths. Of course, there were rules; there were cases where the warring parties believed that one of the provisions was being violated. Karin finished, and spontaneously creative... During the ceasefire, an active discussion was held on the interpretation of the rules. Today's events show that nothing has changed yet, except that the war is real and the rules will also be real. It is absolutely clear that the current coalition of government has exhausted itself and has not proved itself as a capable crisis management team for two years. As a Member, I had the opportunity to see and participate in the decision-making process within the coalition. In my opinion, the decision-making was not based on an understanding of the overall situation in the country, but on the burden of life in some close bubbles - the squandering of public money in questionable procurements, spending on inequitable amounts, which in no way reflected the progress made in overcoming the crisis, the slipping of draft laws through the decision-making system to satisfy the desires of some political forces. I would like to ask: is Latvia and citizens convinced that the Saeima and government have proved themselves a guarantor of state existence and are able to bring them through the crisis? Listening to the opinion of the people, I can say that they do not see it. I would like to call on my parliamentary colleagues to get a break and put an end to the existence of this government. The delay will only contribute to new disease waves and, unfortunately, to the dead. This will continue with the agony of the medical system, the distortion of children's education and citizens' ignorance of income tomorrow. Since there is no listening to the desire to take responsibility from any political force, to set up a crisis management government, I am committed to addressing all the Members of the Saeima and to establishing a crisis government to deal with these difficult times together, despite the forthcoming election date. I call on everyone to prove that the Member is a respected position and that everyone is able to think about the country regardless of political affiliation. I am determined to attract the best minds of the country so that we can come out of the crisis together, bringing people together, ending the division by imaginary features. It is time to stand in one line with the population, forget about their personal benefit and prove that Latvians and the people living in Latvia are able to be united and overcome any challenges. Each of us has sworn: “When I take office as a Member of the Saeima, I swear to be faithful to Latvia, to strengthen its sovereignty and Latvian language as the only language of the country, to defend Latvia as an independent and democratic state, to perform my duties in good faith and with the best consciousness. I undertake to respect the Constitution and laws of Latvia.” Colleagues, it is time for decisive decisions. We are responsible for our country and our people - everyone, without sorting. Time from words to deeds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U308	Name to Member Long Schuplinsk.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U309	Hello! Lobby dyna! Oh, my God! On the one hand, it is probably the most difficult thing for me to speak in this situation, because I myself have been in a position like that of Daniel Pavilut. Only my resignation was requested at that moment by the leading partner organisations in the sector and perhaps not so much by the Saeima. On the other hand, the demand that was addressed to me was directly linked to a very large number, namely three specific problems - pre-school, higher education funding and also the remuneration of educators - which have not really been addressed for years. One common feature we had was that, both in this case and in my case, we had been accused of communication. But the third point is that there is, in principle, a huge difference: in my case, in order to solve these problems, the funding was not granted in principle or was granted very little, while the solution to health problems... Mrs. Rebena has already listed, I will not repeat. I will begin with the point where Member Voika started, namely spring 2020. At that point, Viņķele, the Minister for Health, in principle, says the most important recipe for the date of the community, which has no single solution, but which really has to be adopted, because it will also not be just a solution for this year. People, society... it is necessary to start living in a different way - in other words, there is no blackmail in life, and we cannot stop it - we can use the situation of the pilot once, but not regularly, every year for a long period of time. That is why I will only discuss one phrase, one saying that was used today by a very large number of Members, when it comes to the draft law "Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of infection", and which was also constantly used by the Minister of Health today in his defence speech - to trust in science. I would like to say that this phrase is really very important, but the situation of last school year has shown that the psychological health of pupils and young people has deteriorated by at least 60 percent... I drew attention to this and also spoke to the Minister for Health on a continuous basis, in principle - from January onwards, from the moment when students were not allowed to return at least partially to school step, did not allow for sport, did not even allow out-of-school lessons to be used, there should always have been certain limits. At that point, the password was, in principle, one - we are protecting the seniors. Industry accepted, the sector was to a certain extent not only hungry and driven into an absolute energy shortage... absolute stress on the part of children. But, of course, everyone was waiting for the summer and hoped that a very targeted address and vaccination of 50+ seniors would start at this point. And again, what is the result, I'm not going to talk about. I believe that, in principle, this targeted vaccination has not taken place. What happens again in the education sector? We see that, in principle, children for the second year, young people who suffer from the least side effects, and who are generally asymptomatic, are, in principle, those who are the greatest victims at the moment. If we look at the same scientific research and understand that solutions will have to be searched for for at least five to seven years, then it is clear that the pilot and the compulsory vaccination are not the way out. Moreover, when it comes to vaccination, it is clear that this is necessary, but if we look at statistics, we see that the number of people vaccinated in education, culture, safety sectors is 85-87 percent, which means... The Minister of Health also mentioned Denmark today. If we look at Denmark, Norway, we see that these figures are similar and the difference is precisely in the risk group. But for a little reason, it's the representatives of these fields, besides the same doctors or the same security... or for educational staff, where there is a continuous shortage of staff, there are, in principle, non-receipt requirements. That is to say, once again, when we have confidence in science, we can assume that it is 10, that in some sectors perhaps 15 percent, which is certainly not vaccinated because of objective circumstances, and we know always that what goes in social media is a handful. But what is done today by the Saeima, adopting amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection? In principle, people in these sectors are declared to have to be one hundred percent vaccinated, not thinking that there are cases of entity that simply do not force themselves to go through consilions and that simply lay down objective conditions for people as well (A sound defect.) ... simply does not allow these problems to be dealt with differently. There are certainly children at the bottom, and there are definitely again psychosomatics at the bottom. And it's also scientifically proven, and we can trust science that in reality most problems, including health problems, are precisely psychosomatic. What is happening in Latvia for more than a year is indeed a continuous division of society, intimidation, search for perpetrators, but in reality the basic problem is not the key to vaccination of seniors. And there, without repeating so many different ideas, I do not really understand how I could (as the Minister himself has just said - it is naive to hope that the problems in the process will be resolved by vaccination campaigns) rely on the many published booklets, many published and spent money ads, because, forgive me, historical memory is strong and propaganda does not believe in Latvian people regardless of which layer, level of education, to say, nationality or any other parameter he owns. But it was propaganda with very strong self-esteem trends that was the way in which the vaccination process took place. It is not surprising, therefore, that this is the result. However, realising that there is a need to find a way forward and a way out of the crisis, I very much want to hope and speak to the government: please trust science and remember that the psycho-emotional problems that are now being put into place... Children and young people, very many professions, who could gain a very normal working rhythm, are simply unforgivable, and this will in fact be neither reparable nor reparable. So, at this point in time, base your decisions on science. Do not offer solutions that only solve and view problems unilaterally, but those that nevertheless look at the problem packages. And coming back to the very beginning - yes, life doesn't have a blackscript. Yes, vaccination is a support, but if there is no vaccination, I have to say, turned on in a joint complex solution with all possible... especially at a school where it is impossible to vaccinate one hundred percent of all (and, as we know, no one is vaccinated at all) then there must be a very strict and clear policy. Of course, it should also have been noted in the breakdown of the budget. And improving ventilation in every school, not, forgive me, purchase of CO2 meters, that's what tackles this problem. Like many other things that are simply debatable when really talking to organisations. The fact that the directors of municipalities and schools... For example, this sector, which I am better familiar with... was ready for the conversation, was ready for models and solutions, was ready to make concessions from logistics to the organization of the learning process, is clear. But we cannot stop the communion pandemic if we do everything in awe, let us do everything mandatory and talk only about a single sector crash, which is undoubtedly very deep and obvious, but at the same time... There's no black cover for life again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U310	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U311	Hello, colleagues! Hello, Latvian society! Hello, everyone watching this remote Saeima sitting live! This will be my talk about Daniel Paviluta... The need not only to give up but simply to forgive him and to beat him up. We are not on the agenda today about the health system as a whole, about its challenges and problems. There is a narrow question on our agenda: whether or not the Minister for Health Pavlut is fit for office. Dear Latvian society! Dear members of the Saeima sitting! The only question, with regard to the suitability of the Gap for the post, is whether or not our health system was ready for an outbreak of the community. And the answer is clear. The healthcare system was far from ready for what we are currently experiencing. The facts are inexorable. Despite hundreds of millions of spending on strengthening health care and billions of investment in the economy (as if investments in the economy!) , we were forced to give up already when there were a thousand hospitals. We were forced to ask humiliatingly for assistance to our neighbouring Swedes, whom our authorities in the PR media have been massing as unable to combat the Coyd crisis. Despite the large salaries of the vaccination office and its staff and the head, despite a million, issued in advertising campaigns, we were unable to address those who would have needed the vaccine most. And then we turned out, this week and last week. Instead, we chose - to be more correct, it was chosen by the Paviluts! - to terrorise those who are least at risk of disease - children, pupils, active lifestyle maintainers. Instead, we put in place public dissipation and mutual hatred-sponsoring measures. We introduced “viral safe” fences in supermarkets from SIA “Ramirent”. Thank you for Ramirent! Dear Latvian society! The Minister for Health, Daniel Pavlut, is unable to lead the health sector, just as he was unable to lead the economic sector when the Zolitude tragedy took place. And it is so significant that in our country, the biggest victims are when Daniel Pavulut is in one of his ministerial posts. In the health sector, there is an immeasurable, enormous and endless chaos, and it is primarily responsible for Development/About! which are responsible for the health sector for all these last three years. It has wasted hundreds of millions of taxpayers' money, our money, your money, the dear people who watch this live broadcast or will watch it in the record. These hundreds of millions have been used without any obvious effect, and it is the Pavilut that is responsible for this. As you heard from the address of the Pavilut today at this Saeima sitting, Daniel Pavilut is not ready to admit any of his mistakes, malely admit even one of his mistakes. Moreover, as it turns out, the problems of the health care system are to be blamed primarily on me, Aldis Gobzems, and another on pre-retirement opposition politician who wants to return to politics. It turns out that it is precisely us who are responsible for the increase in morbidity and the fact that, in a situation of almost unlimited funding, when seven billion can borrow and when Paul Stradins's clinical university hospital lacks about 300 million, the health system has come under a collapse. It turns out that we are responsible for the fact that sick members of Latvian society are not provided with decent health care, especially primary health care. It turns out that in Estonia or Sweden, the country has bought necessary medicines and oxygen cylinders to treat co-morbids at home from day one. It's not like we're getting a half dead to the hospital so they're dead there. And it is the fault of Daniel the Pavilut and for Development. This is the fault of this party, which has made purchases of masks and advertising, but has done nothing to improve the healthcare system. Daniel Pavilut’s justice is deplorable and clearly shows how low Karin’s government has fallen, how low the Paviluth himself has fallen. Both the government as a whole and its individual ministers have fallen below the ground because they are unable to take male responsibility for everything that they have not done. Their partymates, partymates from Riga City Council, crossed the bicycle course all summer from one place to another and ripped the flags of other countries rather than preparing for the autumn of which Pavlut... at Dombur... He himself said that we had an increase in our disease in the autumn. Interesting about what Pavilut did during the summer in those advertising campaigns or in those purchases. That's very interesting. Dear Latvian society! Dear Members of the Saeima! Dear Members of the Saeima, literally! I call on you to acknowledge a simple fact: Minister Paviluts has not been able to cope with his direct job responsibilities. And I call on you to acknowledge that he will never meet his direct job responsibilities. I call on all of you to vote in favour of expressing your distrust to the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavilot, because by voting against you, your conscience, dear coalition Members, will be the next dead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U312	Name to Member Edgar Tavar for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U313	Finally. Your Honorable Minister for Health, Daniel Pavlut, you said that you were in war. And it must be the rare time that you have said the truth, because it's really a war, where the general function is carried out by doctors, where nurses are in place of sergeants, where the warfield is in the hospital. Therefore, Minister for Health Pavļut, at a time when you are being told by the forces of land and sea, at a time when you are being told by the generals of the Border Guard and the special task unit, the best thing you can do for the country is to resign yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U314	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U315	I had not planned to take part in this debate, because I had hoped that everything would be said and, in turn, the foolishness that was presented would be enough for the debateers to save their minds. I would like to reflect, above all, on what the representatives of the coalition of power have said. It is really tragic - to listen to how you pretend that the opposition has not done your job in your place. So, if you're not able to take on the wheel of power... not only to take advantage of power, but also to take responsibility for this process, then in a normal democratic country you should recognise it and put your powers and go home. If you don't, then... Those are you who now have to take responsibility for everything that is going on, for everything that has beencurred. And don't try to turn it now to the opposition! The opposition - unlike you - has tried to work constructively, to put forward constructive proposals. And those are you who have achieved that there is no constructive dialogue between the opposition and the coalition of power. It is you who have tried not to implement, to ignore practically any attempt by the opposition, to target all these years, even if it has been so constructive that it cannot be more constructive. Even then, you have ignored it and ignored it! And now you are sighing and wonder why this is the attitude of politicians. I think this is a very important aspect that is worth thinking about, not only for us here in the Saeima, but also for those who follow political processes, trying to comment on them, to evaluate them. And society as a whole must also see the main, true... I don't want to call it a health disaster... the real reasons, the reasons why all this has happened. And that is, all this has happened (it is what we all see now) because of this failure of power, irresponsibility and permissiveness. But it is important to understand why this power can afford to be so frail, irresponsibly responsible, and to continue swimming in its permissiveness and not to answer for it. And that's exactly what we're already trying to draw here: fragmentation. Both the fragmentation of our societies and the political fragmentation, which has been purposefully cultivated all these years with so-called red lines. The result of all this - at the level of the state administration of Latvia does not work any longer as a democratic republic; it works in principle as such a small-scale autocracy: there is the same monopoly of political power in power - no matter what happens. Just - with modifications like... Well, what about each one of you... On each election there are some new censors, the young knights of happiness who come and tell the public how they will help, but “due to” these red lines, everything ends with that they simply fall under those with whom they promised to fight. And this story is repeated from elections to elections, and in essence we have a monopoly of power. Difference: It is different from the classical authoritarian regime by the fact that power belongs not to a single strong power centre, but to a bunch of little and poor. It's nothing, it's bad, it's bad, it's not bad, it's not bad, it's bad, it's bad! And this illusion of democracy is caused by their dispersal. People feel that this is also democracy. In fact, democracy can only work effectively if there is a possibility of a real change of power; it is only then that the principle of political responsibility, which is simply an anecdotes to us when it is mentioned, because it does not work here. It can only work realistically if it is possible to change politicians who are unable to respond to their promises, fail to fulfil what he has promised to their society, are unable to fulfil his responsibilities, and address the challenges he should face. If it is not possible to replace him - and today this situation is an example! - then we have reason to think, question whether our country is really a real democracy, working as a democratic state. Go on. When we talk about this fragmentation - as another result worth thinking about again - that is exactly the situation with our Russian-speaking seniors, the situation we are now seeing. The power of the Methodically for 30 years has been trying to reject these people, make them independent of this country, constantly always ignore their political choices, and now you, power, suddenly begin to wonder that these people do not believe you. You don't know how to talk to them and you can't talk to them. You yourself have created that situation purposefully, and you can now see it once again, the whole of society can see it, which leads to red lines and the fragmentation of this society, we will pay for it very much. The Covid is just one aspect in which we can see it. This is reflected in everything, in our economy, in our economic performance, in our social well-being, in our ability to take care of people. This is a very serious problem, which is only created by these red lines. And if someone is blaming about you, you see, we've been rejecting them here for 30 years... And now to blame the opposition - what are you not correcting now? - It's like... You have had a disease for 30 years, and then you say, ‘ Give me a miracle tablet that will be taken right away, and that disease will be cured. ’ It is most naive and inadequate. Treatment of this disease should be quite different. Go on. If you are blaming the opposition that they have not done anything, they are once again completely lying. If you had listened to the opposition, we would not be in this situation at the moment, and the country would not have the same challenges as it is. In particular, we're from... In particular, I myself and our group, the Group SASKAR, have long called, when it comes to vaccination, to give priority to the role of family doctors in all this, millions of them... But you're not interested. And I think it has a simple explanation why. Instead of giving this funding to family doctor practices, helping them with assistants, with material security and everything else that was needed to successfully implement this targeted vaccination, first of all by vaccinating the target group - seniors - you just figured out: we'd better give this money... We will acquire all kinds of projects, develop some vaccination centres, newspapers, vaccination offices. Enie millions go to new projects, new IT solutions... Well it's clear: if you give the family doctors their money, then there's nothing else... As they say, the combinations will not form, so the money will be gone. If, on the other hand, the money goes on in some new projects that you can tender for, choose the winner you need, the performance option you need, confirm the necessary estimate... Well, you know what's going on. And, in my opinion, this is one of the main reasons why we have been struggling with co-heavy, so meaningless and inefficient. I think that all these mask purchases, which those who needed to do, were also shown. Another important thing that we... So that we could have ensured a normal learning process... That is what I pointed out long ago and early, on the first day of the new Minister for Health... Minister, and it was about ventilation: if we want to ensure an epidemiologically safe teaching process in schools, we have to take care of air quality. And all of this could be done, and all of this could be prepared. Even more, I wrote questions and sent questions to the Minister of Education and Science on the first day. In answer to these questions, she should have been clear about this field of work. If there's someone who has a little sense of mind, a little sense of responsibility and a commitment to solve something, then this story... It's been a long time since he was able to solve it. The amounts you're spending in support now make no sense... It would have been much cheaper to invest in ventilation solutions and to do more than millions of research. Not about salad recipes, but to make a thorough study of how best to ventilate school rooms or training rooms, or work rooms; to develop methodological principles that could be further implemented and ensure an epidemiologically safe environment. And there people could normally stay, learn or work. None of this has been done. And it's one of the proofs of your failure and irresponsibility. Also today we... from coalition... from the opposition we also offer constructive solutions for the spread of this community... the law that you approved today. One example was the question of these antibody tests. You're telling me: you know, we don't know if it can or can't; if it works, there's no evidence. Johaidi! Elementary. Take statistics - how many of these disease waves we've already passed? Find out how many people who have been infected have been repeatedly infected, how many of them have put the burden on the health system, how many deaths have occurred, and whether you can afford it or not, what the risks are. That could have been the case for a long time. This has already been resolved in Lithuania. I think we could have done that, too. For all of this it would really be worth everyone to think about why our power is so weak, irresponsible and... pointless? The main reason is that at the level of power, Latvia does not work as a democratic state, because in the basic principle of democratic state, power efficiency is in principle a change of power. And as long as the monopoly of power remains in our country, this perverseness will also remain, the principle that those in power must remain in power, must stick to them, because other alternatives must not and must not be. And while we see it, we're going to sink more and more in here and get away from Lithuanians and Estonians in everything. Only in antitopes will we be in the first place. I think colleagues, it is very worth thinking about this - and not just us, colleagues. I also call on all those who really care about the political process to take care of the future of Latvia's country, to think about why we are where we are, and why this power can be so weak, irresponsible and incompetent and stay there anyway, and to continue to decide (in a more correct way, not to decide). And all of this is then to be bought out. These are hundreds of millions that are currently being spent to cover this pointlessness and for which we will all have to pay later. It is the life of thousands of people who go away (and can prove it again by facts!) for this irresponsible power. It is worth thinking, colleagues - and not just for you, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U316	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U317	Dear colleagues, The President of the sitting. Of course, I, too, have signed this request for resignation, and I had my motive why I wrote it. I would just like to emphasise once again and again that the time when the talk about possible depression was launched (and I thank my colleague Mr. Mičerevska for having assumed and, together with Mr. Schmidt, began to collect... in writing. - (PT) That was the time before the medical organisations in the public sphere expressed their position that Mr Pavļuta should be resigned. It was a time before. This was not about these events. My motivation to sign it was in the most direct connection with the decision of the government that the Saeima proposed, so to say... The first decision on the restrictions that followed this autumn... They were not, by nature, any restrictions; they were, by nature, such as a bunch: well, something we should do. This happened at a time when it was already clear to all that disease rates would rise and that much more decisive action was needed, and that more decisive action was needed from politicians directly through restrictions. The question is whether Mr Pavluta managed or failed to convince his colleagues that such steps should be taken. Apparently, no, it didn't work. The question is whether it is solely Daniel Pavilut's responsibility. I don't think so. I am in the position that it is also the Prime Minister's responsibility. In particular, at the end of June - it was still in summer, at the end of June - a representative of the Transresor Coordination Centre, who based its opinion on experts, a whole group of experts who expressed a clear position, an assumption about the vaccination coverage in Latvia, the consequences of this, even in the most optimistic scenario, in the autumn... These experts provided this information to the government and not to the Minister, to the government as a whole, to all the ministers. In June, he warned about the consequences of the autumn. What was the government’s response? Haotical motion of draft laws: then drives, then does not direct, then it gets scared, then finally withdraws draft laws. Working with seniors, colleagues, do you think it happened or did not happen? Is it enough for you to offer pots for a tomb festival? Is that enough? Was it not necessary to start hard work in summer, such as what is happening now? Today, this work is under way. Didn't you have to start already in the summer? But good. After the war, everyone's smart. But during the summer, the government... Being aware of the effects that might have on the autumn, government representatives calmly take their time off in the summer! At a time when the scenarios A, B, C, D should be prepared and developed, with concrete offers, the steps we are doing, what support will be given to entrepreneurs - so that, at the time of this situation, there is already a really clear plan of how to act. I was working Covid-19... the committee of inquiry, and the experts who come to that committee, have expressed their views on the fact that the government has no plans and is being brought in front of them. Clearly, what is - it is something that has just been repaired, put together. And further action by ministers... Information on whether or not economic operators will pay or will not pay these stoppages... comes with a week off. It only shows how much this government... to quite a lot of known factors... works in an entirely non-professional manner. The factors are known. Unfortunately, there is no action. Action should be much more decisive. Colleagues, remember that when there were these first restrictions that came to the Saeima in October... As early as September, I was quite surprised - personally, I was very surprised! - the fact that in the public space we heard the views of many experts, honourable people, that... has already signalled that the situation is not good. And not only did the Minister of Health Daniels Pavluts, but the entire government pretended not to see it; the coalition also pretended not to see it and not to hear it. And no strategic decisions were made on the basis of these expert statements, no action was taken. Instead, some completely meaningless document was adopted in the government, which was passed to the Saeima and was called “new restrictions”. Then the head of government explained in the next days when he spoke on television - dear friends, all right, with this, we'll be fine, the curves aren't so crazy! - Although already at that time a whole range of these specialists who know how to model these things, who had already demonstrated their skills in previous waves of pandemic... how accurate they are in this modulation... Journalists, including research programmes, have also shown clearly what will happen if no decisive action is taken. In September, when we first asked for the resignation of the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavlut, I said from the troupe: experts have calculated. We already have such problems that there will be at least a thousand dead people. What was the reaction? Did anyone listen to it? We got a complete piece of paper in the Saeima, then we saw politicians still trying to defend themselves, trying to look for the perpetrators - see, there it's the opposition, see, there's the people who have not vaccinated! - without seeing yourself in the mirror, that it was their own indecision that led to it. All these circumstances continued to state that this document, first of all, is good enough. In my view, too, this, second, document that the Saeima brought - the so-called pilot-in-law... Colleagues, I don't think of it as a pilot. It's a completely pointless document. I do not think that this is enough to limit the spread of the disease. Colleagues! I see what's happening on the streets. I see what is happening today at the Saeima House, how many colleagues have arrived... Like me... arrived today to work from the Saeima... I see what's happening in society, in cities, in the countryside. Life continues, and the virus, as we can see, continues to spread, only the head of government and ministers allow the whole of this background to tell: after November 15, dear friends, life will be calmer, life will be back on the old tracks, there will be very little limit. Colleagues, what is that?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, How do you allow today, without knowing what will happen in a week, to deceive people?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Entrepreneurs rely... trying to count on what you're telling them. The result is that they are suffering millions of euro losses when they are trying to rely on a government vision. I also saw this programme in the public media yesterday - as politicians discussed and also the expert pointed out that it was wrong - to promise the public something at the moment without knowing the reality of the situation on 14 November. Imagine those doctors to whom you thank you here today for working actively on the firewall and for whom you do not provide the funding in the budget as you have promised them with your own vote. Imagine how they have to work today when they hear politicians start to tell us that let us open everything right now, let us let them go back to wherever they want to go and do what they want. Then, after all, it will mean an even greater load for the doctor. This will mean an even greater burden on the healthcare system. For people who cannot go to scheduled services, this will mean that their diseases will become even more enterprising than they are now. This will mean that people with low incomes, who have a very long dream, getting healthcare at a cost, will be increasingly affected by the health problem. And this money that you are currently investing with this budget, although it is not enough... it will become increasingly undervalued. Colleagues! What I want to say is that I think it's not just Pavilut's fault. I wrote this request for a mission, not just for Pavilut, but for the government as a whole, and especially for its leader... And I'm very irritated by the fact that the head of government and the minister, the parties they represent... shows each other with the finger - who is guilty, who is not guilty. Two years since the pandemic... Well, there's a need to talk to a doctor, listen to me. The Minister for Health talks about the need for a renewed dialogue with medical practitioners. Colleagues, this is what the Minister for Health says. Colleagues! In my opinion, the entire government has made a huge mistake in this pandemic. This autumn... This is just as great a mistake as the former Minister of Health Ilze Viņķele made: no vaccines were bought when they were to be bought. In my opinion, the government has now made even more mistakes than Ilze Viņķele did, namely with his indecision, based on political ratings of the parties, with his weakness, with the inability to show politicians, the sovereigns worthy of dealing with the crisis. I have seen politicians who are also able to make unpopular decisions decisively. I don't see them in this government. Therefore, I believe that the entire government should go away, not just Minister Pavilut. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U318	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U319	Colleagues! The largest fraction of the Saeima opposition... in principle they're just two, the third is the smallest... So I turn to those two major groups of the Saeima opposition. Colleagues, you can invite the Government to resign at any time, you can convene an extraordinary sitting of the Saeima at any time, and you can sign an application at any time to the Constitutional Court - the vote is sufficient for you. So that here you listen to the fact that you would like to call on the government to resign... But do not do anything so that the government really departs, and do nothing so that the government really feels the power of the opposition. It's a little theatre. But if you're talking about Mr. Pavlut... Yes, I hope I will be allowed to speak, despite the fact that my views probably did not allow many of the opposition colleagues... allow me to sign this request. Mr Pavilta has a lot of vices. As before, when we were talking about Mr. Pavļuta's candidacy, I said that he is, of course, a very useful minister for the government, but... We can see that Mr Pavļuta is now starting to fall on his own lies and is, of course, very difficult at the moment. This, of course, cannot be felt. Mr Paviluta has lied, together with Mr Kariņš at the beginning of this year, that this vaccination will be voluntary, and we can see that this lie does not completely prevent Mr Pavilas from continuing to work. In any other country, such a politician... I think Mr. Pavilut mentioned Denmark to us today... I allow any politician who has lied so shamelessly to the people and Members in Denmark to be ashamed of it, but that is not the case with us. Mr Pavļuta, unfortunately, regards the whole of this co-situation as such a great reason for the expansion of the advertising market. We can see that the only thing that Mr Pavļuta was very concerned about is how to launch the vaccination newspaper, how to promote this vaccination process... promote in various ways. It was the only one that bothered him. We see the real picture. We'll see the real picture. In this year’s budget, no money was found for medical wages either. And if we are talking about the work that has been done, then it is true that these works were actually done only for advertising vaccination, and therefore for carrying out the advertising budget. The Minister for Health, Daniel Paviluts, has no responsibility for the fact that the vaccination of young people has been carried out in violation, so that Mr Pavilut is only a human error. He's trying to cover up the fact that, here, this vaccination process is a new thing for everyone and it can happen like this... But Mr Pavilut's actions really show a lot of irregularities! We are also talking about the prohibition of basic services for hospitals, including the prohibition of planned operations in hospitals. And we also hear medical voices, medical opinion, about it: it's criminal - to prevent people from performing scheduled operations right now. It's worth noting that a person's addiction to pain medications... and this deterioration... it will then turn out too much, much worse scene. If you're talking about crowded hospitals, which Mr. Pavļuta loves to mention all the time, in this way, as if you're talking about the opposition, then... Mr. Pavilut must have read... most likely he has read the article yesterday that we saw on Delfi's news portal - about a person on whom three times (three times!) went to the hospital for emergency assistance only on the third occasion - when, unfortunately, it was too late. The problem is that Mr Pavļuta did not pay attention to outpatient treatment and did not pay attention to patients who really needed urgent assistance. It's all late, and that's why this overcrowding of hospitals is just Paviluta's fault. It is the fault of the Pavilut that our medical system is really weakened. Nothing was done to make our medical system stronger. The whole summer passed, sending delta virus across borders and not even trying to help doctors. Therefore, my fellow Members, I will support this request for a mission, although I understand that this mission is being requested... Perhaps it is just such an appearance for some colleagues. I see that, in fact, this entire government... The prototype of this government today and, I understand, will swim in the Daugava until a certain time. This yellow snow shrape, which the Chief of KNAB, Mr Strees, has provided us all to watch all this every day - this yellow snow shrape is a prototype of government, especially Daniel Pavluta. I call for support for the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-04-PT13-2315-U320	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision submitted by Māra Mičeravska, Didža Šmita, Edgars Tauka, Armanda Krauze, Ulda Augulis, Viktora Valaiņa, Māra Kučinska, Jānis Dūklava, Ivars Zariņa, Arthur Rubika, Boriss Cileviča, Vital Orlova, Jānis Krišāna, Edgars Kucina, Jānis Tutina, Valērija Agešina and Ivans Ribakava “On Distrust to the Minister of Health Daniels Pavluta”! Please vote mode! On - 37, against - 53, refraining from - 1. No decision has been taken. Dear Members and honourable Members, The Saeima Bureau has received a request from Member Jura Pūce, Krista Baumane, Gata Zamura, Mārtiņš Šteins and Viesturs Liepkalna to declare a break at the Saeima's extraordinary meeting of 4 November following item 7 of the agenda (draft decision on distrust to the Minister of Health Danielas Pavļuts) by 9 a.m. on 11 November this year. Colleagues! We must vote on this. Please set the "On Procedure" mode. Please call me! We will vote for the adjournment and for the agenda to continue at 9.00 a.m. on 11 November this year! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the Saeima decided that the sitting would be suspended until 9 a.m. on November 11. I will also inform you about the Members' questions that have been received. Members Ramona Petraviča, Ieva Krapāne, Maris Možvillo, Jūlija Stepanenko and Karina Sprūde have submitted a question to the Minister for Welfare Gatis Eglitis “On vaccination conditions for assistant service providers after 15.11.2021.” The question of Members will be referred to Minister for Welfare Gatis Eglitis. Member Maris Možvillo, Aldis Gobzems, Ramona Petraviča, Karina Sprūde and Edgars Tavars have submitted a question to the Minister of Education and Science Anita Muižniece about the implementation of the national research programme “Covid-19 mitigation”. The question will be referred to the Minister for Education and Science Anita Muižniece for a reply. Members Ivars Zariņš, Valerijus Agešins, Ivans Klementjevs, Arthur Rubiks and Edgars Kucins have submitted a question to Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs about organising the Three Seas Initiative Summit in 2022. The question will be referred to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a reply. Members Ivars Zariņš, Valerijs Agešins, Ivans Klementjevs, Arthur Rubiks and Edgars Kucins have submitted a question to Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs “On Latvia’s candidacy in the UN Security Council elections in 2025, providing Latvia with a lobby campaign for its participation in the UN Security Council in 2026-2028”. The question will be referred to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a reply. Members Ivars Zarins, Valerius Agešins, Ivans Clementyevs, Arthur Rubiks and Edgars Kucins have asked Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš about the validity of decisions taken by your government to limit the spread of Covid’s disease. The question will be referred to the Prime Minister for a reply. Members Ivars Zarins, Valerijs Agešins, Ivans Klementjevs, Arthur Rubiks and Edgars Kucins have asked the Minister for Health Daniels Pavits about the direct effect of various ‘Covid vaccines’ on health load’. The question will be referred to the Minister for Health for a reply. Members Karina Sprūde, Aldis Gobzems, Māris Možvillo, Jūlija Stepanenko and Ramona Petraviča have submitted a question to the Minister of Health Danielas Pavļutas “On Covid-19 statistics”. The question will be referred to the Minister for Health for a reply. Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues. Only registration of the presence of Members. It's been a success. The sitting was suspended until 9 a.m. on 11 November this year. Good evening! ( Interruption)
