ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! The first remote emergency sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 14 October 2021 shall be opened. On the agenda – reports from the Saeima Bureau. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Administrative Territories and Populations" presented by the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission be referred to the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Member Ilze Indicixone has applied for a speech. Will you talk about it?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U2	No, I'll talk against.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U3	Ms Ilze Indricksone, a Member, has applied for a speech. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U4	Good morning, colleagues! Good morning, those who listen and watch us! I want to speak 'no'. But not against the fact that we should implement and, to say, respect the judgment of the Constitutional Court; we must do so. And it must be done urgently – by the end of December – in order from the map... It's illusory... not to disappear from the list Ilūkste and Ozolnieki. And I would also like to say about this: I think that solutions need to be searched according to the situation and, I could say, steps need to be taken gradually. This draft law proposes to take too long steps and too quickly, if you could say so, and to make decisions that will affect not only these two regions and the cities surrounding them, but also several other regions, in total five. In my opinion, taking a decision at the moment, which would apply to the next municipal elections, would be hasty... too haste. Evaluating this bill... I have no doubt that this will be passed on. These changes are necessary. The continuity of the steps should be assessed. First, we should address the issue of the judgement of the Constitutional Court directly affected municipalities... and resolve the issue with transitional provisions... about Ilūksti and Ozolnieki – what we will do to them, as we say, and where they will stay (like we did to Varaklani) – before taking the next steps, evaluating the identification of regional development centres and, in other words, the potential that exists for all settlements and cities in regions where there are no regional development centres at present. I understand that it has been given... The Saeima Commission, too... the task of the Ministry and the Ministry have commissioned a study. The study will be concluded in May. And I think then, too, the Ministry should come up with proposals to the Saeima Commission and assess this situation further, because otherwise we will stop any initiative and actually say, for example, to the South Kurzeme region: you have just begun to work, you are actively trying to build your new district structure, drive new projects, look at development... of course also in cooperation with Liepaja city... But if we say now, you're no longer so in 2025... Well, you're not actually going to be here, there's going to be a different order again... In my opinion, this is not right – to place all the new local governments, elected Members and also the administration, figuratively speaking, on the coffers, and they will put these next... and the rest of the years before the elections will live for those future changes. We have had experience of the previous reform when district councils lived on such illusory coffers for many years. And we saw how it was overall, however, non-motivative and pointless. That is why my proposal was already in the Commission's decision to include the fact that these issues should first be dealt with in a step by step. And we will certainly make proposals for the second reading and we will discuss the possibilities for these steps to be made gradually and for the transition period to be extended, and actually assess the possibility of identifying development centres in all regions where this is possible, as this has not been done, and we have already pointed out this in advance in the course of the adoption of the draft law. So I will not be able to support this draft law. And let us make proposals for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U5	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Administrative Territories and Populations” submitted by the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 64, for - 15, for - 1. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance” presented by Member Petravičas, Možvillo, Nemiro, Krapāne and Sprūde (No. 1172/Lp13) to the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. ‘ Ramona Petraviča, a Member, has applied to speak about’. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U6	Good morning, honourable leader of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, Until 30 June of this year, person was given disability page B in connection with Covid-19 illness or quarantine, and during that period the sickness benefit was paid from the first day. At the moment, however, it is no longer valid and page A is being issued. I would therefore like to mention, however, the reasons why... At present, the conditions for granting the aid are the same, even two to three times as acute, since the incidence is much higher than during the winter period or until 30 June when B pages were issued. Reasons for issuing page B - reducing the prevalence of Covid-19 infection and the need to reduce the cost burden on employers. In the present situation, where the worker is ill or isolated, the costs incurred in connection with disability sheet A must be borne by the employer. And the increasing morbidity indicates that there will be many such situations. And also during the period of the previous high morbidity, the need for paid B-pages was based on the fact that employees would not get sick or, as contacts, avoid quarantine because it could still cause financial damage to both the employee and the company. This is already an additional burden for businesses by dividing workers between "good" and "bad" to discriminate against so-called "bad". Companies risk large penalties, allowing people to work and earn. They should lay off good staff who refuse to receive the vaccine and seek new staff, those who have received the vaccine. Moreover, the costs of contact and sick persons must also be covered. It should be noted that the company has each employee in weight. The issue of disability page A leads to expenditure and hence to an initiative to encourage workers to work even though they are ill or should be in quarantine. Therefore, in order to prevent companies already in a very difficult situation from shutting down or releasing their employees because of insurmountable costs, I call on them to support and refer to the Commission this draft law, which provides for the issue of disability page B in cases where a person is ill or identified as a contact person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U7	Please call me! Vote for Member Petravičas, Možvillo, Nemiro, Krapāne and Sprūde's draft law "Amendment to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance" (No. 1172/Lp13) transfer to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 35, for - 50, for - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes the draft law on maternity and sickness insurance presented by the Member Petravičas, Krapāne, Možvillo, Sprūde and Stepanenko (No. 1173/Lp13) to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Ramona Petraviča, a Member, has applied to speak about’. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U8	You just rejected the payment of the sick leaves... payment of disability sheets B. This bill, in turn, is to protect workers from the negative consequences of the pandemic, at the same time - also to limit the disease, because it provides for the establishment of two paid pages of disease days after vaccination if a person feels unwell. In the public domain, it is often heard that objections to vaccination are also rooted in fear that side effects could occur that would force a person to leave his job for a while. And, of course, it also has a financial impact, because a person cannot come to work the day after vaccination. Even if he takes the sick leaf, the first day of the sick leaf is not paid. It would usually be no more than two days for a person to stay at home after... if he feels bad - has a temperature, fever or... and so on. Supporting this draft law would create a sense of responsibility for the state towards its citizens, taking care of those who have assumed responsibility for their own and public health. But now they are completely alone with their problems. And, of course, it would also be a reduction of the financial burden on employers in situations where the employee is experiencing these side effects. And if they have been a rough night, and the next day the person suffers, and it prevents him from carrying out his duties, of course, he must either ask him to just give him a free day free of charge, or ask for a sick leaf that he will not pay for the first day is 75 percent for the second day. As the disease rates have grown and the epidemiological safety requirements and the government's desire to increase restrictions really undermines the ability of businesses to work at a high burden and in part, companies will, of course, look at how to reduce the number of workers or ask workers to come to work after vaccination, even though they are in a poor state of health. Therefore, please support this amendment to the law and make it possible for a person to be given a two-day sickness sheet, if necessary, after vaccination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U9	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” presented by Petravičas, Krapāne, Možvillo, Sprūde and Stepanenko (No. 1173/Lp13) transfer to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! - 34, against - 51, abstaining - not. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the draft law on the tax on digital services presented by Member Ģirgens, Dombrovskis, Papules, Pucens and Nemiro be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, with a view to its being the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Kaspars Ģirgens. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U10	Hello, dear colleagues! Some time ago, I had sent to all political groups an invitation to get acquainted with the draft digital service tax law, because such a law that we could introduce would be very important for many people of Latvia. Since it was not possible to present this draft law to you, I will now try to explain briefly its substance. I am the head of the group of MEPs to support patients with rare diseases, so I have a duty to make sure that there is additional funding in the budget that can be directed towards treating these diseases. One way, of course, is to ask for additional money in the budget, and you can also think about economic development, but I suggest using the money that goes to the social media for this purpose (and mostly these money goes to America). If we introduced the Digital Services Tax Act, part of this money would go to strengthen public media, the other part to support patients with rare diseases. Why is support important for patients with rare diseases? For example, the 2022 budget provides for an additional EUR 4.9 million, of which EUR 4.2 million are earmarked for the purchase of cystic fibrosis medicines. It's 29 people in total, but these 4.2 million... There will be only about 20 patients - with the hope that the drug dealer may lower the price. However, overall there are 57 patients with cystic fibrosis. Now, try now to decide which child to finance and which child is not! That is why I have tabled this option as a possible option, which we could already consider within the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Would such a law, a digital service tax law, be possible at all to introduce a rare disease in support of patients? I will now try to outline the substance of the Digital Services Tax Act. Thus, it is essential that multinational companies pay part of the income tax at the place where the consumers or users of their products are located. The digital service tax has already been introduced by countries such as France, Italy, Australia, Bulgaria, Turkey, Poland, Great Britain, Spain, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Belgium. As regards the introduction of a single digital service tax, it should also be noted that it is planned to be introduced in the European Union by 2023. France already introduced the digital service tax in 2019, while Italy, Poland, Austria and Turkey introduced it in 2020. Latvia also has every opportunity to implement it in the near future. In Poland, the tax rate is 1.5 per cent, while in Turkey, for example, it is 7.5 per cent. In most countries, the digital service tax is levied on advertising, the digital interface... with the use of multilateral digital interfaces, the transmission of user data through the digital interface, social media platforms, internet search engines... and others. Thus, by introducing digital service tax in Latvia, it will be ensured that large multinational companies make a fair contribution to supporting important public services. Like other countries that have already introduced a digital service tax, Latvia is expected to pay the tax to digital service companies whose total digital service sales revenue in the previous financial year exceeds 750 million euros. Preliminary forecasts for digital service revenues could amount to up to EUR 29,6 million. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I would, however, call on you to support this draft law and to direct it to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission so that we can look at this issue: how useful it is now to channel all financial resources to these big digital enterprises and... not collect taxes from it to support sectors important to us in Latvia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U11	“Pret” has applied to refer this draft law to the commission by Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Mr Dombrovskis, please apply for the debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U12	Highly honored Head of the sitting! I will not, of course, call for a vote against this draft law being passed on to the Commission. But, honourable colleagues, do I think it's strange that... the next draft of the law submitted... and more than 50 of our colleagues strongly oppose the referral of these draft laws (I stress - for discussion) to the commissions. We are not even talking here about whether or not we now have conceptual support for these draft laws. We are talking about the readiness to talk about them in parliamentary commissions. More than 50 colleagues regularly vote against these issues. And now, I understand, they are also going to vote against it to discuss... Even talk about the draft Digital Service Tax Act... without giving any words, without explaining to their parliamentary colleagues or the public who are now listening, why they refuse to even talk about such draft laws. That's why I... My main objective was to apply here for 'no' - to give one of these 50, more than 50 colleagues, to explain to us why you will now vote as you are asked to do. I ask the head of the Saeima sitting to give these, mostly positions, colleagues to apply and explain why they consider that this subject should not be discussed by the Saeima commissions. Will any Member of the position have that wish?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U13	Mr Dombrovskis, thank you, but you could actually apply for a procedure. You have taken this “area” – to speak “to”. But, after the procedure and after the Rule of Procedure roll, one talks about passing the bill on to commissions “for”, one – “to”. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission the draft law on digital service tax presented by Member Ģirgens, Dombrovskis, Papules, Pucens and Nemiro, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 36, for - 41, for - 5. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Bureau of the Saeima proposes that the Member's draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax" presented by Dombrovskis, Papule, Ģirgens, Petravičs and Pucens be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U14	Dear colleagues, The President of the sitting is very respectful. There is an epidemiological crisis in the country. There are many people outside the Saeima House - many very dissatisfied people. There is a crisis in the health sector in the country. There is a long-standing government crisis in the country. There is an emergency in the country. That list is very long. I understand very well that many of all of these colleagues are most likely to feel dizzy today, but I ask my colleagues to get in, because very many people will also have an energy crisis this winter. As we know, electricity bills will increase more than twice on average. Natural gas and heating bills will also increase significantly. For heating - definitely, especially for Rigans. At least there is good news, such that this rise in energy prices is relatively temporary - this and next year, to this heating season. In its great debt and in its long-term crisis... and, since it is used to sleeping down matters, of course the government did not notice this issue and the next year's budget... At least from the beginning it... No solutions were developed for this, at least one month ago. Two weeks ago, members of the ‘Republic’ party proposed a reduced VAT rate for electricity and natural gas as an operational, fast-track solution. A week ago, the referral of this matter to the parliamentary committees was examined. As is usually the case, those more than 50 Members voted against the referral to the committees without explaining their basic unwillingness to even talk about this option, despite the fact that, among other things, such a solution has also been proposed by the European Commission, which is usually a very serious argument for many of our colleagues to do or not. We are now learning from the mass media that the government's offer is mainly targeted support for so-called protected users, which are largely the disadvantaged population and also large families of children. So far, it's all the right step. On 28 September, we also asked the Head of Government first of all what was planned to be done to help the disadvantaged. This was noticed at least then, and the government has acted and allocated funding to help protected users. That's good. But, colleagues, I draw your attention to the fact that the number of protected users is only 150,000. Overall, there are 760 thousand households in the country, so many do not need any help. In recent days, we hear from the officials that, here, the government plans to allocate EUR 20 per month to each vaccinated pensioner to help pay bills. It's very interesting that... Soon we'll see this bill, it'll get to the Saeima... We will see that it intends to pay vaccinated pensioners EUR 20 per month... There's nothing to do with... it is not mentioned with the word that it is energy bills, although the media officials are speaking about it literally every day. Well, this is quite a desperate step. How will this be measured, for example, by pensioners who have been overloaded? Why should they not have any help in paying their bills? I think it is a very good question. Colleagues, I believe that our proposal is quite fair, non-discriminatory: to exempt VAT invoices for electricity and natural gas by 1 June next year. That means... This is in addition to helping disadvantaged people. This will reduce the bill on average by about eight euros per month. It will not fully compensate for the increase in electricity, but it will depreciate the blow for each household. Colleagues, I call for support... Discussion...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U15	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” tabled by the Members Dombrovskis, Papule, Ģirgen, Petraviča and Pucen, according to which it is the committee responsible. Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 38, against - 49, abstaining. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes the draft law “Immigration Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 1176/Lp13) transferred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Are Members opposed to handing over the draft law to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, making it a commission responsible? There is no objection. Draft law for the commission... The vote has been requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law on immigration to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption presented by the Cabinet of Ministers, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! It's not about 80, it's two, it's not. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law on the Entry and Residence of Citizens of the Union and their Family Members in the Republic of Latvia” presented by the Cabinet be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Military Service” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Dear colleagues, Our agenda is under the heading 'On own-initiative proposals submitted'. Draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application “On More Funding for Cancer Treatment” of 10 724 Latvian citizens”. Do Members have reservations that we are looking at this proposal for an own-initiative decision at this sitting? There is no objection. For more information see the draft decision “About 10 724 Follow-up of the Latvian citizens’ collective application “On More Funding for Cancer Treatment””. On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications - Member Ilmārs Dūritis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U16	Madam President, I have a very respectful sitting. High honourable Members! The Commission for Mandate, Application and Ethics has received a collective application of 10 724 Latvian citizens “For more funding for cancer treatment”. On behalf of the Commission on Mandates, Ethics and Application, I call on Members to support this citizens' initiative and to refer it to the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U17	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U18	Good morning, honourable colleagues and also Mrs President of the sitting. I call for support for the progress of this document and the draft decision, but I call on colleagues from the coalition to examine this proposal in substance, rather than perhaps in another report, to cover up the figures and figures adopted respectively in the national budget, which in theory increase the funding allocated to this disease as a whole. We know that a priority decision has been made within the European Union on the prioritisation of oncological diseases throughout our health system. Consequently, I call for increased funding already in 2022 for the treatment of oncological diseases and perhaps also for preventive actions, calling at this point for no hypocrisy this year... the increase in the draft 2022 budget brought to us this morning (as if it were an increase!) for a total small, from the needs of watching, the amount of... funding for oncological diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U19	We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U20	Colleagues, I think maybe one should end up being such a double... Or maybe another name you may be called. Let us look at this digital service tax law that you have just voted on. So “for” were 36 people, “for” was 41 people, and five people abstained... Members, if we can call these Members. With this vote you showed your true face - that you do not care about the future of Latvia and the health of the Latvian population, not only welfare, but also health. Even though I take these five people (the National Association) who stand up for families, for children. We are really talking about this law right now... and on medicines that would be necessary for a very large number of children... you simply vote against or abstain. And your votes were crucial so that this possible draft decision would go to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, so that we could simply judge how we would support the people of Latvia and whether this would be the way... where we could take additional financial resources to buy medicines for these people. This is regrettable to the National Association. It's also deplorable to Evita Hall-Gross. You are the leader in supporting patients with oncology in the Group of Members and are able to vote against the additional funding that we could receive for rare diseases. Nobody... Even the chair of the sitting could not answer why he voted against. I'm sorry! And you still want to support this draft decision now... with the hope that you will look for funding further? Well, it's not gonna be like that. You are a deplorable Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U21	Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I understand that some good Member's nerves are irritated, unable to collect thoughts, perhaps rationally think. As we have seen in the previous vote and in the debate on the introduction of a tax on these digital services... the proposal, the rapporteurs themselves, were already mooting the debate by applying for one, and the other by saying 'no'. But if you're talking about this, you're also talking about this... and what Mr. Girgen said... There is probably little understanding of how regulation works and what regulation is, the global discussions associated with the introduction of a digital service tax. As a member of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, Latvia is actively involved, including the Parliamentaries... on the introduction of a digital service tax on a global scale, because it is clear that a country alone, a national country, cannot really start this mechanism in practice. This has been demonstrated by a number of countries - Australia, France - where different protectionist mechanisms defend the interests of one or the other major country, so discussions are already quite widely held within the OECD and will also end in October with a two-pillar approach to the gradual introduction of the digital service tax. Clearly, it requires common agreement between several countries to put such a tax on digital services into practice and it would be an effective instrument, not just a signpost and a desire for a national state to collect something, although in reality no one will pay the tax to the Treasury, because there will be various obstacles and restrictions. Thus, from the OECD organisation's point of view... and these are also the G20, the G7 countries, so the big countries, where the multinational digital companies are also based... has already reached a conceptual agreement, and gradually... The digital tax convention, regulation is progressing gradually, and that is the plan, I understand, until 2023 to put it into practice. I can mention a similar example: very recently, a historic agreement was reached between multinational companies... changing the way they pay corporate tax. As it used to be... that was derived from the place where the parent company was established, where that company is then subject to income tax. That's why the big companies were very successful... the possibility of avoiding or optimising tax payments. This approach has therefore been broken. There is now also a minimum income tax to be paid by multinational companies of 15 per cent. In the second place, there is a change of approach to the principle that companies are taxed in the country in which they provide services rather than in which they have their parent. I admit that Vjačeslav Dombrovskis has studied extensively... perhaps you will also call for some examples from Singapore, but here you have to understand that such regulation... We can write a beautiful law, but will we be able to apply it in practice and achieve at least the obligations set out in this law for multinational companies that provide digital services in Latvia that will pay taxes accordingly? Now this has been proven, as I said, by other countries (Austria and France) as well: it is quite a difficult objective to achieve. This means that more attention needs to be paid to achieving multilateral cooperation with a number of countries where there are... similar thinking in order to develop a common approach to the introduction of a digital service tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U23	We are continuing the debate on the draft decision on More funding for cancer treatment. The floor in the debate for Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U24	Dear colleagues, Some of us are now saying that, here, I have sabotaged something and I have not allowed anyone to speak or explain my vote on the digital tax. Colleagues, both you and absolutely all Latvian citizens who listen to us know very well that the position Members almost never - practically never!... It's hard for me to remember the last time it's been... never explain why they strongly refuse to discuss the draft laws submitted by another of their colleagues if they are not members of the position, so... But if Mr. Cole... If Mr Kola had really planned to speak against and explain, then I am, of course, sorry that I had not given him this opportunity. However, I would like to speak on a few points that my colleague has raised. So the first. According to my colleague, one country cannot introduce any such digital tax. Well, that is obviously not true, Mr. Cole. If we look at the list of countries that have introduced a digital tax, we will see that the list of these countries is quite, quite impressive. They are Great Britain, France, Spain, Italy, Turkey, Austria. And these are even the two countries that some of our colleagues are so particularly inspiring, I would say: Poland and Hungary. Therefore, the claim that a single national State cannot introduce a digital tax is not true. Those with courage and wisdom have long since introduced a digital tax. Go on. The second is that we have been working for some time to introduce this digital tax. Colleagues, this is also not true, because the digital tax project... This is not the first time, colleagues, when it was presented. It was submitted already a year ago, if I am not mistaken, perhaps even two years ago, and was rejected. And that was rejected by the same colleagues... I think we can check the vote of some colleagues, but I am more than sure that the same colleagues who have now, so to speak, in an acceptable form in the speech on the digital tax, voted even against this tax in the Saeima commissions. So colleagues were afraid not only to introduce (this tax was not introduced in Latvia), but they were afraid to even speak, even discuss the introduction of digital tax in Saeima commissions. To introduce the so-called Reira tax reform, to significantly raise taxes on those people who receive less than the minimum wage, colleagues were not afraid, but even to talk to the Saeima commissions about introducing a digital service tax on companies such as Facebook and Google, colleagues were afraid. I'm afraid to talk to the Saeima committees. Go on. The fact that something was said about competence or lack of competence is that the tax is moving forward. I called on my fellow Members to speak 'no'. Actually, this answer... If one of the members of the coalition chose to speak, competent to speak, that would be very simple, colleagues. That would be the following: yes, the same OECD reached an agreement yesterday, Wednesday. This agreement is that if... a minimum corporate tax of 15 per cent, which also transfers revenue to those countries in which the income stands out... but part of this agreement, colleagues, is that all digital taxes will be abolished in some three to four years. When we presented this draft law, of course, we did not know that such an agreement would be reached yesterday, Wednesday. But this was achieved. And to a competent coalition Member, everything that should have been said today is that, here, the OECD has reached this agreement, and part of this agreement is that no digital tax. And that would be all.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U25	Mr Dombrovskis, I am very sorry, we are currently debating more funding for cancer treatment. I just remind you of what we are debating.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U26	Yeah, I... That means I've just hit a tenth, isn't it? But what about this, my colleagues, with funding for cancer treatment? For example, if you look at the news - as I said, there are several countries that have introduced this digital tax, including Australia. And Australia's experience has been very positive. It has got a lot from the same Google for its own mass media. And also in terms of funding. So, contrary to what Mr. Cole says. If we had done so when the draft digital service law was proposed for the first time, we would today, and all these years, have tax revenues that we could channel to media and cancer treatment. We were able to direct them to rare diseases, to other public benefits... if only colleagues were - what was it? - courage, wisdom and honesty to demand from companies such as Facebook and Google that they pay taxes fairly... more than they pay them in Europe... also in the Latvian state budget. And today we're looking at the news... we see, for example, that Italy itself says - yes, it is very good that this agreement was reached yesterday, but we do not intend to abolish our digital tax for at least two years, and we will continue to get from it... I'm on my head now, how much they get... about... at least EUR 300 million per year. Today we could have been in the same situation - despite that agreement, we could have continued this for another two years if it were not... all those colleagues who voted against it a year ago or two, when it was first proposed, to discuss it, who were afraid even to talk about digital tax. Today, all those colleagues (one of them will speak next) can congratulate themselves, of course, on how honest, courageous and intelligent they are. But this particular case with a digital tax unfortunately shows something the opposite, including less money for cancer treatment. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U27	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U28	Good morning, dear colleagues, returning again to the eEurope platform! I would like to remind you that more than... almost 11 thousand citizens signed collective applications, which are related to a rather significant problem in the Latvian health sector, and this is oncology. This initiative, for which signatures were collected... I would remind you that an additional EUR 28 million is being requested from the Saeima in the Health Care Budget 2022, such as modern and effective medicines for oncology patients. It is noted that this amount is the amount that the Ministry of Health has identified as indicative when calculating the additional resources required in 2022. So in fact it is to help the Ministry of Health implement... and the Saeima on several occasions, including Evita Zalītes–Gross Group... Let us say that we should give this raised issue such additional support from the public. Of course, this initiative must continue to move forward. The good news - as a person who has participated a little in budget formation, I can say that drafts of the budget package have now been received at the Saeima and registered in the record-keeping system. With regard to the budget... The additional claims of the Ministry of Health also provide 49.8 million for improving oncology health services, including equipment for three university hospitals. These are the budget programmes 33.14. ... 16. ... 17. ... 18. ... 33.03. which is liquidating in this additional budget allocation. What is good too: the budget provides for this additional... it is not a one-off measure. It is now popular for us to talk about such one-off investments in some areas, but it is also planned that 30 million have already been earmarked for 2023 and 2024 when this level is being... the funding is retained. So it is up to two million more than required by this citizens' initiative. Consequently, I think that there are absolutely no obstacles to moving this initiative forward to the Social and Labour Commission, and it seems to me that I remember correctly what was the path envisaged by the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications, as we say. The Ministry of Health will then also be able to present its budget priorities in this context about the programmes to be implemented. I call on all those who really support the granting of additional funding for cancer treatment to support the budget for next year, where the significant funds I have already mentioned are EUR 49.8 million. If you don't support this, well, I'm sorry... Then you'll be able to start talking about where that hypocrisy is... if there has been no hypocrisy. But I think that this budget should remain for the budget negotiations. I think the opposition, even with the fact that there are 28 (there are 49) in the initiative, will nevertheless find reasons why the budget is useless, will criticise it, will vote 'no', and then it will no longer be important from the opposition that there is this essential funding for this quite important thing, too, in healthcare. I call for support to be given to this draft decision drawn up by the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application. But one more thing. Well, I can't repeat Mr. Dombrovskis, who... good news that has noticed this virtually all major agreement reached by the most important countries in the economy, which... By the way, there is another addition that initially a global corporate tax agreement was reached between 130 countries, then joined... there is a specific agreement already signed... Ireland, Estonia and Hungary have also joined, so that this agreement is indeed with universal support. Of course, there is still a process of ratification in the United States, with which we often associate these large multinational cooperatives, which receive, for example, advertising revenue, including from Latvian companies and individuals, as well as... Of course, it will have to be ratified, already adopted in the form of a law within the framework of the European Union, and then implemented in national laws and regulations. So it's good that it's not missed. This big event seems to me to be historical, and this will, of course, not immediately, but when it enters into force, generate additional revenue in the Latvian budget also in a direct, measurable way. I would remind you that, of course, there is also the VAT regime in force in the European Union and, most of all, as far as I am concerned, the companies originating in the USA are now established in a country of the European Union as VAT payers. Consequently, those who buy services, such as businesses, from this European Union, such as VAT, can also indicate their VAT number for their subsequent input taxes. But it is such a replica of future revenue in the budget, the essence here is precisely about cancer treatment, what people... citizens have signed... That is in the budget for next year, unless you, the dear opposition, vote for it and it will not be bitten, it will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U29	Name of Member Evia Papulei. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U30	At the moment, colleagues are showing some signs of hypocrisy during the negotiations, because when we mention the full amount that has been allocated to the health system, we say: that is why we can already ask these people to confirm and even talk about it. But thank you for mentioning innovative medicines. If you look at the relevant section at the moment, how much you've really given innovative medicines, then I have to say... Well, I'm going to go further, of course, and call on the Group of Members to give attention to the support of patients in oncology and to support, perhaps, proposals in this area as well... But if you look at the funding, it seems that it's only in the price of two grande. And I hope that we will be able to increase this amount not only by the price of one grande, but more importantly, including to stimulate the treatment of patients with oncology with innovative medicines. So I call on you not to talk so much about what has already been done and hypocritically not to praise yourself or to in vainly baffle members of the opposition because it is our joint work, including in the oncology group. And I really call on the oncology group... Members support and make proposals by increasing funding for innovative medicines, which are certainly involved both in the treatment of rare diseases and in the treatment of cancer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U31	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U32	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Honourable Members! I completely agree here and, of course, we must give the green light to consider this initiative. But I would like to say that Mr Dombrovskis is a little misleading to those who do not know, because if he calls the countries that have introduced this digital tax, it should also be said specifically how much it has cost each country. I'll tell you about France. Thus, against France, the United States introduced the lifting of instant import duties on goods such as cosmetics and beverages. So French purses, cosmetics, cognacs and champagnes became a layer more expensive, perhaps even exceeding the benefits of the digital tax. It would have been very normal if this transatlantic trade agreement had finally been ratified, with all the Member States of the European Union having the same conditions. Unfortunately, the situation is that each country has addressed this issue on its own. If we want to receive and examine in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission additional funding not only for cancer, but also for other diseases, then in any case, by introducing such taxes or by drawing up proposals, such as bilateral relations between Latvia and the United States or between Latvia and any other country, then the opposite must be the calculation not only - what the benefits will be, but also - what the losses will be. In this case, Latvia exports veneers, which are used in the construction of high-rise buildings, for large amounts. We also used to export metal structures from Liepaja Metalurgs; now it is not, but we export all kinds of metal products from small companies. There should be a precise calculation of what will happen if we introduce such a tax and what will happen if import tariffs are raised against goods produced in Latvia. As long as there are no such calculations, of course, we cannot immediately introduce such a tax. That's why we have to look... And I really agree... Yesterday we also listened to the World Health Organization... in the... Unfortunately, Latvia, together with Romania, is taking one of the lowest places in health funding. We also have one of the shortest life expectancy compared to the other Member States of the European Union, we have more mortality. Therefore, to say right away, will these 50 million, less than 50 million, additional or other amounts be sufficient, we cannot, and it is clear that we need to look for and increase expenditure on medicine in gross domestic product and government expenditure. All of this is beyond doubt, and this will, of course, also happen within the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. But tell me fairy tales like this: if we introduce some kind of tax on a major state and then solve our problems, then it is too childish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U33	The name of Member Evita Hall-Gross. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U34	Hello! I do not want to be hypocritical and, of course, I will call for support for this draft decision. I would like to thank all Members who joined the Group of Members in support of patients in oncology more than a year ago, but I will now call for them not to step up on this subject so loudly, but to work in those places, such as the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs and the oncogroup, so that this funding - which is the biggest, I think, over the last 10 years - achieves the objective. Yes, the funding is far from sufficient to cover all the needs of the on-arm, and it will have to be done... and have to work for years, because this pit is built for years. I assume that logical Members, including Evija Papule, quite clearly understand that, if we have been on-the-spot for decades, we will probably not have to close it this year and next, but we, as an on-the-spot group, will do our utmost so that its pit is filled as soon as possible, it is the fundbed. Another thing we will, of course, have to talk about, and thank you for the active work in this group, so that this funding reaches its objective and so that this year's funding does not cover the debts of previous years in the case of oncology medicines. That's what we really... we have already started to work and we will also continue to work. So, of course, we're going to meet in an oncology patient support group, and we're not going to be that little... hypocritical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U35	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U36	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Of course, when talking about financing cancer treatment, rare diseases cannot happen without discussion, negotiations on how to finance, where to find funds. Of course, I think it is hypocritical to talk about looking for these funds in the budget, lobbying the Ministry of Finance or who is there... pray that the Ministry of Finance adjusts some forecast somewhere or how, find another few hundred thousand or even million, or how, but a serious conversation is always about sources of funding. Because today, too, a concrete proposal was put forward to find funding for at least rare diseases. Here, some colleagues now say that this funding has been childish... Then to this... I call, however, for a return to funding, of course, a source of funding, both for cancer treatment and, perhaps, for rare diseases and for other purposes. So we are told that, here, the net benefits of our Latvia from such a step would have been negative, so such a step is childish. But as colleagues, including Mr Kirstein, will explain why for this French example... France, it is true, has been one of the first, perhaps the first country to introduce this digital tax, receiving something, so to say, against the one in which companies like Facebook and Google and the other companies are registered and operating. Why is that? How will Mr. Kirstein explain that in a number of... Why this failed example of France, as he says,... Why a number of other countries - Austria, Italy, Spain, I stress, Hungary and Poland... Mr Kirštein, how is it that Hungary and Poland were not afraid, but considered that, in this overall calculation, the benefits were greater than the losses? And Mr Kirštein is talking cowardly now that, here, no, we would only get some sanctions against it. The difference, however, is that there are countries that have the courage and the readiness to stand up and fight for their national interests, and there are those who call this behaviour childish and are willing just to support Reira's initiative to tax those who receive less than the minimum wage. Thus, the application of minimum social taxes to those who receive less than the minimum wage is entirely acceptable (as a result of which they are companies... many of these people will be laid off at all), but try to collect more from large international companies - this is childish behaviour. That's how it's supposed to work. I also say to those colleagues who are trying to talk about, so to say, the decisions taken by the OECD... But what they're talking about only shows that they don't understand what's really happened. I will say it again. If we introduced a digital service tax when it was offered, two years ago, a year ago, then despite... then we're not just today... At the very least, I think about EUR 20 million would be collected last year. But we would also be able to continue to do so for at least two or three years, while the new arrangements agreed at the OECD yesterday would not be fully implemented, as Italy did. We would have funding to... both cancer treatment - greater funding at least, perhaps not enough, but definitely significantly greater - for rare diseases as well as for other purposes. No, colleagues, why...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U37	Your time is up. Thank you, Mr Dombrovskis. I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application “For more funding for cancer treatment” of 10 724 Latvian citizens”! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, The own-initiative proposals submitted by Members Viktors Valaiņa, Armands Krauze, Ulda Augulis, Edgars Taukars, Jānis Dūklavs, Māra Kučinska, Jānis Vacāns, Janīna Jalinska, Raimonds Bergmanis and Didžis Šmits are presented in the draft decision on the abolition of foreign missions and holidays of ministers. Are Members opposed to the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this sitting? Please log in. Mr Valaiņš, will you speak against the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U38	I will talk about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U39	You will talk about it. ‘ No need to talk about’, we have to agree if we support this draft law... forgive me, the examination of the draft decision at this meeting. Are there any objections from Members? Mr. Pouce, do you have any objections?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U40	Yeah, I have reservations.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U41	Then we have to decide whether to include this draft decision... the draft proposed decision at the next sitting of the Saeima. Please call me! Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U42	Colleagues! I would, however, call for this issue to be examined at this sitting today and for this decision to come into force. For this draft decision... I mean, so that after the procedure... at least examine the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications or any other such as the Legal Commission. Whatever, because colleagues, in this case, it's not... It is also quite logical, in a way, that it is “development/Par!” Members, the leader of a political group objected to this draft decision being examined here today, because it is quite right now that the Minister of Defence, who is from Development/About! , is the minister who has still not found time to return from vacation and is currently not taking part in the work of the government. If we look at the work of the government as a whole, then we... Today, later on, we will have a long and wide-ranging debate, probably about announcing an emergency, but at the same time, I will remind you, colleagues, that this summer... in the summer this... in principle, I think the government should have been more active, the whole government had gone to such a certain rest for a whole month, so that the month... In essence, the government did not work, there were no government sittings or state secretaries meetings, everything was put on a break. It would have been a good thing if everyone finished the preparation, or something would have happened, but it just didn't happen. In my opinion, this draft decision is deeply symbolic, and I call for its support, thus demonstrating the Saeima's attitude towards the way ministers are working, working during extraordinary circumstances. It does not matter whether it is a Minister for Culture or Protection, or an Economic or Agriculture Minister. Whatever! Any minister should be present at the moment in the decision-making process. They cannot travel around the world, defend whatever they need to be here in Latvia at the moment and solve the crisis. Today, there are firefighters out. It's an area of home affairs. Just as the Minister of the Interior was on vacation. Does it mean in some way that everything is right in the area of home affairs? So we can go through each of the areas. Does it represent any of these things that are now appearing as a problem... can show that everything is all right? I think colleagues that this decision has... this draft decision needs to be supported, it will improve... Only such decisions can improve the quality of decision-making and create some kind of mutual... public confidence, and to make something not only the Saeima, but also the prestige of the government, because what we experienced last week was, in my opinion, beyond any borders. That is why I, my fellow Members, am calling for support for this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U43	Dear colleagues, Since there was an objection to the examination of this draft decision at this sitting, we will be voting in favour of this draft decision at the next sitting of the Saeima. Please call me! We will vote for consideration of the draft decision submitted by Mr Valaiņa, Mr Krauzzes, Mr Tauma, Mr Dūklava, Mr Kučinska, Mr Vucanas, Mr Jalinska, Mr Bergmanis and Mr Schmits on the abolition of foreign missions and holidays of ministers at the next Saeima sitting! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft decision is not included in the next meeting. And in that case, I am asking you to submit the draft decision to one of the commissions. Please, name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U44	Colleagues! I call on the matter to be referred to the Commission for a mandate, ethics and application.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U45	Name of Member Evia Papulei. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U46	The proposal is to hand over to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, because it will certainly lead to economies of scale in the state budget, which will be able to pass on to the Oncology Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U47	So let us first vote in favour of handing over the draft decision to the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application. And then let's vote... Then we'll see after the result. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the independent proposal of the Member Valaiņa, Krauzzes, Plant, Tagara, Dūklava, Kučinska, Vucana, Jalinska, Bergmanis and Schmits - draft decision on the abolition of foreign missions and holidays of ministers to the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Application! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 39, it's against - 49, it's not. The draft decision has not been submitted to the commission for mandates, ethics and application. We will vote on the proposal to hand over the draft decision on the abolition of foreign missions and leave to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission! Please call me! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 33, it's against - 50, it's not. The own-initiative proposal has been rejected. Dear colleagues, On the agenda, under the heading ‘Conclusion of the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust’. Draft decision “On the dismissal of Gunta Ozoliņa, a judge of the Riga Regional Court from the position of judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U48	Dear colleagues, During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 6 October, the draft decision “On the dismissal of Gunta Ozoliņa, a judge of Riga Regional Court from the office of a judge” was reviewed due to his retirement. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I invite Gunta Ozolina, the judge of the Riga Regional Court, to be dismissed from office of the judge at his own wish from November 5, 2021. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U49	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the dismissal of Gunta Ozoliņa, a judge of Riga Regional Court from office of a judge”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Alda Gobzems from the Parliament’s Commission for Sustainable Development. Member's application. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Alda Gobzems from the Parliament's Commission for Sustainable Development! Please, let's vote! For - 39, for - 45, for - 1. The draft decision was rejected. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft Act “Amendments to the Road tolls Act”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, the name of Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U50	President and colleagues of the very honourable sitting! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined before the second, final, reading draft law “Amendments to the Road Use Fees Act” (No. 1161/Lp13). Two proposals were received. Both relate to the time limit and the time when the law enters into force. So it's 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Article 3 of the draft law is to be excluded. Associated with the time of entry into force of the law. The Commission was supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U51	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U52	2. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. It is envisaged to supplement the draft law with a provision for the entry into force of the law in the following wording: ‘The law shall enter into force on the day following its publication.’ Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U53	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U54	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U55	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Road tolls Act” in the second, final, reading! Please, let's vote! No, 83, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “On the Agreement between the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Kosovo on the elimination of double taxation of income and on the prevention of tax evasion and avoidance of tax evasion and its Protocol”. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, In its session, the Foreign Affairs Commission watched draft law No. 1078 Lp13 at second reading. No proposals were received for the second reading. I invite Members of the Saeima to support the draft law “On the Agreement between the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Kosovo on Double Taxation in respect of Income Tax and Prevention of Tax Abuse and Tax Non-payment and its Protocol” at the second, final reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U57	Thank you, Mr. Cole. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On the Agreement between the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Kosovo on the elimination of double taxation of income taxes and the prevention of tax evasion and tax evasion and its Protocol” at second reading! Please, let's vote! For - 79, for - no, for - 1. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals... Not mentioned here... The law is passed. Thank you. Draft law “Amendments to the law on bailiffs”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Edgars Tavars. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U58	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, We are working on the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Executors of the Court” (No. (865/Lp13) for the third reading. I would remind you that the draft law has been designed to facilitate the organisation of the work of the administration institutions of sworn bailiffs, to create an office of sworn bailiffs to facilitate the rule of law, and it has been clarified various... The scope of the principle of neutrality, as well as the effective procedure for sending correspondence necessary for the performance of the post, strengthened requirements for the prevention of money laundering in the process, as well as other norms that will definitely improve the work of the office of bailiffs. I would remind you that this draft law was drafted by the Ministry of Justice in cooperation with the Council of Sworn Judicial Officers of Latvia. Six factually technical proposals have been received at the third reading. 1. - A technical proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is envisaged to exclude the word ‘participant’ from Article 137.1, fifth paragraph, point 3. The proposal is supported by the Commission. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U59	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U60	2. - also a technical proposal from the Legal Office. Article 137.3 (Article 14 of the draft law) provides for the exclusion of the words ‘or current member’. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U61	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U62	3. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It sets the order and... The transitional provisions shall be supplemented by points 47, 48. There will be a new version... Here we are talking about the delegation of Article 74.2.2 to the Cabinet of Ministers to determine the procedure for recording the facts at the request of interested parties, it shall enter into force on 1 January 2022. The proposal is partly supported by the Commission and included in proposal 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U63	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U64	4. - The legal commission's proposal. It is envisaged to exclude point 47 of the transitional provisions of Article 23 of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U65	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U66	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Provision is made for the rewording of point 48 (Article 23 of the draft law) of the transitional provisions. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U67	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U68	6. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. Related to the bill... the numbering of points. The Commission is supported. So all the proposals...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U69	Members are in favour. Yeah, thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U70	... have been examined and supported. Please support the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Executor of the Court” at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U71	Thank you, Mr Tatar, for your report. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Executors of the Court” in the third, final, reading! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, Time to break. Members' registration is over. Let's keep working at 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U72	Honourable Members! We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Notary Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Edgars Tavars.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U73	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Draft law “Amendments to the Notarial Law”, third reading. I would like to remind you that the draft law “Amendments to the Notary Law” (No. 922/Lp13) has been developed by the Ministry of Justice in cooperation with the Council of Sworn Notaries of Latvia. The amendments have been designed to regularise the issue of setting up an office of sworn notaries, providing for the office in the form of limited liability company, thus establishing intelligible legal status of the office according to the actual economic activity of the office of sworn notaries, as well as specifying a number of norms in order to improve the operation of the office of notaries. No proposals have been received by the Legal Commission for the third reading. Therefore, please support the draft law “Amendments to the Notary Law” in the third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U74	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Notary Law” in the third, final, reading! Please, let's vote! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Identification of Natural Persons”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Dūklavs.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U75	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Identification of Natural Persons” (No. 1053/Lp13) at third reading. The aim of the draft law is to define the concept of a national electronic identification means and its use as a priority for both public and private electronic services. The scope of the Law on Electronic Identification of Natural Persons is extended to private electronic service providers, so as to enable the natural person to demonstrate his identity in a secure and reliable manner by means of a national electronic identification means for the presentation of identical identity documents. No proposals have been received for the third reading of the draft law. On behalf of the Commission, please support at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U76	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Identification of Natural Persons” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “On disposal of real estate at Vilkupurva iela 24, Riga, part for public needs – construction of a European standard railway line of 1435 millimetres “Rail Baltica” on the corridor through Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U77	Hello, colleagues! At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 5 October, the draft law “On disposal of part of real estate at Vilkupurva iela 24, Riga, for public needs – construction of a European standard line “Rail Baltica” in the corridor of “Rail Baltica” through Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania” (No. 1133/Lp13). For the implementation of the project “Construction of the European Standard Width 1435 mm railway line in the Rail Baltica corridor through Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania” it is necessary to dispose of real estate at Vilkupurva iela 24, Riga (real estate cadastre No. 0100 082 0211), part of the parcel (Cadastral designation 0100 082 0211) in an area of 0,9062 ha. The real estate part is disposed of for the development of infrastructure related to the construction of railway transport infrastructure and disposal is the only way to achieve this objective. On the basis of Article 9 of the Law on the Expropriation of Real Estate required for the needs of the Company and Article 9 of the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation of 15 March 2011 No. The Ministry of Transport approved, by decision of 26 August 2020, the amount of equitable remuneration for real estate in Vilkupurva iela 24, Riga, the part of the land contained in 0,9062 ha and the building on it - residential buildings (cadastre designation 0100 082 0211 001), the dwelling which does not exist in nature (cadastre designation 0100 082 0211 002) and the shed, also in nature, does not exist (cadastre number 0100 082 0211 003), the disposal, in the amount of 118 996.32, including the market value of real estate 113 456.24 EUR per square metre, compensation for the loss of the remaining part of real estate in 0,3044 ha area - 5540,08 EUR or 1,82 EUR per square metre. Five of the joint owners have given their consent to the approved amount of the remuneration. One of the joint owners has not specifically expressed his will, nor has he exercised the right to challenge the amount of remuneration established by the institution for the disposal of real estate necessary for the needs of the Company. Taking into account that one of the joint owners of immovable property required for the needs of the Company has not provided a response to the notification sent and has not given consent to conclude an agreement on voluntary disposal of immovable property and to carry out land cadastral survey works, as well as the agreement on voluntary disposal of immovable property has not been concluded, the preconditions set in Article 13 of the said Law on forced disposal of immovable property for consideration by the Saeima of the needs of the company have been fulfilled. The benefit that the company will gain by imposing restrictions on the fundamental rights of the owner of the real estate Vilkupurva iela 24, Riga, is greater than the damage caused to the individual's interests, because in this case, the real estate is necessary for the achievement of specific public interests and public objectives - construction of railway transport infrastructure, which will ensure the integration of Latvia into the European Union rail system by promoting mobility of Latvian citizens and economic development. The Legal Commission has supported the draft law for the first reading. I call on my colleagues to support them.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U78	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On disposal of part of real estate at Vilkupurva iela 24, Riga – for the implementation of the project “Construction of the European Standard Width 1435 mm railway line in “Rail Baltica” corridor through Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania”” at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U79	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be two weeks, or until 28 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U80	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 28 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Border Guard”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U81	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Sitting viewers and listeners! The Commission of Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention at First Reading has reviewed the draft law prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the State Border Guard”. It is planned by the draft law that the institution of appointment of a border guard as a soldier of professional service shall be excluded from the Law on the State Border Guard. The Commission has supported the draft law at first reading. I also call on the Saeima to support the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U82	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Border Guard” at first reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U83	The deadline for submitting proposals is seven days. Until 21 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U84	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 21 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Maris Kučinskis. ( Pause) Mr. Kučinski, we can't hear you!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U85	Do you hear me now?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U86	Now we hear it, yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U87	Hello, honourable Members! President. We examine the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media at second reading. No proposals were submitted to the second reading committee. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U88	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media at second reading! Please, let's vote! For -63, for -15, for -1. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U89	The deadline for submitting proposals is 19 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U90	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 19 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Mr Andrejs Judine, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U91	Hello, colleagues! Second reading: Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child (No. 1020/Lp13). We received 19 proposals. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is proposed to exclude Article 1(3), which defines the non-compliance with childcare obligations. First of all, I would like to thank the Legal Bureau on behalf of the Commission, because it indicated that this definition is in fact in competition with the provisions of the Civil Law, which also explains the failure to comply with childcare obligations. However, it is important for Members to define this concept in a special law so as to make it clear to individuals, institutions working to protect children's rights, which is meant by the failure to comply with childcare obligations. It is possible that, at third reading, we will continue the discussion on the harmonisation of rules and definitions, but at the moment proposal 1 was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U92	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U93	Thank you. 2. - the proposal by Minister for Welfare Petravičs. It is stated that special knowledge of child rights protection issues is necessary not only for the Chair of the orphan court, but also for the Assistant Chairman and Assistant Members of the orphan court. We have assessed this proposal and supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U94	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U95	3. - the Ombudsman Janson's proposal. It is envisaged that special knowledge of the protection of children's rights is also necessary for sworn notaries. This proposal is editorially clarified, partly supported and incorporated into proposal 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U96	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U97	4. - Commission proposal. It is envisaged that notaries also need specific knowledge. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U98	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U99	5. - also the Commission's proposal. Provision is made for special training on child rights protection issues to be organised by the State Children's Rights Protection Inspectorate. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U100	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U101	6. - The proposal of a Member of the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, Bordan. Addressing the issue that we are discussing, either in fact one and a half years or two, about the best interests of the child. At first, in the Commission just two years ago, we heard that the law should not determine what the best interests of the child were, and basically there was a consensus that it could not really be defined in the law what is what is not the best interests, but it could be pointed out in what direction it should be considered what matters should be assessed. Now we have received a concrete proposal, and Ideas have supported it, including 7 and 8. - the Commission's proposal. There are therefore clarifications, but the proposal has been supported and incorporated into proposals 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U102	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U103	So seven. - Commission proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U104	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U105	8 / 8 - Commission proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U106	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U107	9. - also the Commission's proposal. Proposal to amend Article 8 of the Act. So... One second (Pause.) ... Article 8 of the Law provides that the child is entitled to retain his or her identity. With regard to the proposal tabled by Julia Stepanenko, on which we will be discussing shortly (the 10th proposal), the question is raised - what does the identity of the child mean. Experts indicated that this concept is clearly understood, but the law does not explicitly define it, because the law states that the child has the right to preserve identity, but, referring to norms of international law, this issue should be interpreted. But in the context of the 10th proposal, in the working group of representatives of both institutions and non-governmental organisations, it is proposed to clarify the wording of this provision and, in particular, to enter it in Article 8... to put it this way that the child has the right to preserve his or her identity - and to indicate in brackets - (sex, sexual orientation, nationality, religion and belief, cultural identity and individuality). In this way, we will, in essence, clearly formulate an already recognised provision, which may not have been formulated in a single legislative act. After long discussions on all the proposals, including Mrs Stepanenko, the Commission decided to support this provision - Proposal 9. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U108	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U109	Colleagues, I could say that I wanted to do better, I got the way the commission had come up with. This Commission proposal, yes, relates to my proposal, Amendment 10, which in principle... which... In this Commission proposal, it seems to be an attempt to extend the term of identity, although in fact, if we are talking about Article 50, we are talking here quite narrowly... we are talking about, I will remind you, protecting the biological identity of the child. This is not a plan for the identity of a child in the religious sphere or in the sense of nationality or, ultimately, of the child's name or origin. This is a specific, completely specific article that talks about protecting the child from harmful environmental effects, and in this case, by supplementing this article with the protection of the child's identity, the biological gender identity, we would really have done a great deal of work in the area of the protection of children's rights, because when we see letters from parents to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, we would have added this article. Now we see that under the leadership of Mr Bordan, the Ministry of Justice has tried to come up with such a rather strange formulation, trying to spoil this original idea and to add to this article the text of the general commentary on the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. So this text, I remind you, is not directly taken from the Convention on the Rights of the Child; it is from the general comment, which is a comment made in 2013, which, yes, extends the question of the identity of the child and, in such a dubious way, talks about the sexual orientation of the child in this case. I think there is still a separate story about who understands this extended mention of identity, because the sexual orientation of the child is mentioned in a question where we are talking about protecting the biological identity of the child from the Dukuli films, so it really was a clear cynical on the part of the Commission. Of course, too... I will also mention that, unfortunately, the optimisation I have proposed... I understand that many Members did not like my previous... So the next version we are going to talk about is the Internet resources mentioned in the version. Well, then it seems like trying to argue that Internet resources are too wide and that Internet resources cannot be controlled. I propose that this proposal be simplified, with the exception of the words "Internet resources". Instead, on my proposal to optimise... Therefore, to improve the work of this commission and to propose immediately to the Commission a proposal for a Commission... At the next sitting, we saw such a miracle from the Ministry of Justice. So at first you changed the concept of the child's identity and then you added that concept of identity to this article, which you will see in the next proposals, completely changing the whole idea that was originally put in my proposal. So I will strongly call on you to vote against this proposal, as well as against what is going on. We are talking about the Commission's proposal, with which it really was thought to spoil this whole idea and put it in, voting something completely strange, such an incomprehensible comment... the term, which I think will cause very great problems, will really be a bear service in the field of the protection of children's rights. I call on you to vote 'no', and I also call on all the Members of the Commission who, perhaps without thinking, voted 'in favour' of this structure to decide differently in the Saeima vote. Thank you. I look forward to your understanding.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U110	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U111	(Sound rupture) ... in the commission, and was also the initiator so that the next July Stepanenko proposal would be designed so that everyone could understand the meaning. And, however, I will start by saying that the next proposal, which we will be discussing, is 10. - do not accept some criticism of both its structure and, possibly, the definition needs to be corrected. That's why we, the majority in the Commission, also agreed that we kept the sense... Its meaning is, I will speak in a very simple language, so that we do not have John to turn into Anne and Anne - John, and the child from an early age, regardless of his gender, could work and, using these immature children and minds, to seduce against those values, why the world was created at all, and how God intended it in the end. And then... is both in the commission and, I think, in the Saeima, the majority. The question is how we have managed to formulate it. In the Commission too, however, I have been told that this explanation given by the UN includes everything if it is put together with another proposal that will follow the Jūlia Stepanenko's proposal. Then we will all understand and the goal will be achieved. However, what has been given at the moment at least raises doubts in me as to whether we have all understood the same. I've been watching... Not just... We can accept, Julia is political... That she's... Right next to Toch, someone else on the other side. Just how we respond to it, how politics is inside, how everyone wants anything, but at the same time I have listened to all the polemics that people have spoken about since last week. And people whom I also respect and who are, so to say, watch out for the fact that we keep what we have. Therefore, given that there will be another third reading, I would also call, at this point in time, on us not to support either this proposal 10 or the proposal 11, to leave this debate to the Commission for a third reading so that we all understand what we want. I am looking for the same UN document mentioned above, which we have also supported in Latvia, but there is no clear definition. There is no clear definition so that we can say that everyone understands something equally - I mean the Convention on the Rights of the Child. There is therefore obviously still an explanation. However, I would call for a debate now, if it cannot be postponed, to be put to the vote in the 'no' vote and to the third reading in the committee, because at least I will say so: if there are doubts, a little must stop right away. We're not going forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U112	Name of Member Dagmara Beitner-Le Galla.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U113	Thank you for your word. Thank you, Mr Kučinski, who shared his doubts with his colleagues. I, for my part, would like to support... and thank you to the working group where I worked, and also to my colleague Julija Stepanenko, because she drew our attention... and we tended to agree with her, but I nevertheless take into account our views, one of the best experts on children's rights, Mrs Kronberg. I do not think that this is a dubious document, even if in comments... the identity of the children. We will improve this rule if we say something suspicious to Members, but I would nevertheless call for support for both 9. - the proposal drawn up by the Commission, and 11. It is properly formulated and helps and explains... in fact, Latvia is also bound by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which Latvia has signed... also a Member State to this Convention. And we'll work on it. Today, however, I would call on colleagues to support them. We're gonna improve this... this, let us say, rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U114	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U115	Dear colleagues, I would call everyone... the entire Latvian society, which has believed those politicians who declare themselves advocates of family values... who declares themselves advocates of family values in the next elections, really pay attention to the way in which individual Members are now trying to get off their responsibilities. What I want to say is yes, you see, there's still an extra force here. Yes, what I would like to say is, in fact, the hypocrisy that I faced in the Commission and that sounded from the seemingly defending Members of the family value, I really do not end up being surprised. In fact, instead of turning on something completely meaningless political jealousy and watching who is doing what, who is making any proposals, really would call for not sleeping as a power, but working for the country, working for families and also making the proposals themselves, not dreaming and not understanding what is being presented, not knowing what the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child is so this article, this supplement, but really doing... And to do so that your political jealousy does not harm your children and grandchildren, because when your grandchildren watch the Duki movies, you will just have to answer - you know, I voted against that time because it's just making politics. Well, it's just a little bit of it: this proposal was put forward quite a long time ago, there was no talk at all about politics. Thank you, I am calling for the 'no' vote, honourable colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U116	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U117	Dear colleagues, protecting the identity of children is indeed a very important moment. And I really thank my colleague Stepanenko for drawing attention to this issue. The definition originally proposed is too narrow, because children's identity is a very broad concept, which includes not only aspects that are very important according to the political settings of particular parties, but includes both cultural belongings, mother tongues and several other features. And all the identity must be protected in general. I therefore think that Proposal 9 is perhaps not ideal, but it is appropriate, indeed, for both UN standards and today's view of the whole problem, and it makes this identity protection much more extensive and more inclusive. I therefore think that the 9th proposal is, indeed, quite well-designed and should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U118	The name of Member Evita Hall-Gross.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U119	Hello! Even if we assume this... reject this proposal and exclude clarification of the concept of children's identity, such action does not alter this concept of identity as regards the application of the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The Convention also remains a document to which Latvia has acceded, thus the principles contained therein and the interpretation of the UN's official rule of law will remain in force. Actually, I wanted to say, by the fact that... Nevertheless, we can vote 'no', we can vote 'yes', but these concepts will remain. But when it comes to the term 'bio identity', there is no such explanation in any of these documents, and it will therefore be very difficult to apply the term. I think that no one "to vote in favour" or "to vote in favour" changes the substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U120	Thank you. I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U121	I would perhaps like to remind you, for reasons of clarity, that we will be voting on the proposal to amend Article 8 immediately and to provide that... to make it clear that the identity of children also includes sexual orientation. And what does that mean in the context of the bill? In its 11th proposal, you can see that the Commission also proposes that there should be no action to jeopardise the identity of the child, namely sexual orientation. The objective we were told about was therefore achieved. The only thing to take into account is that a working group dealing with these proposals... include experts and experts and have managed to develop a higher quality proposal than 10, on which there will be an opportunity to discuss. And the Members were convinced, and therefore the Commission supported the proposal 9. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U122	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - the proposal submitted by the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs! Please, let's vote! For - 30, for - 35, for - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U123	Thank you. 10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mrs Stepanenko's proposal, on which we actually started to discuss. This proposal has been examined; we had two sittings where we discussed issues related to proposal 10 and it was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U124	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U125	Thank you, colleagues, for not supporting this dubious... child sexual orientation, identity... It's really weird... If we are talking about a six-year-old child, here I think it already sounds a little like a very, very serious offence if someone is now trying to tie a six-year-old child with sexual orientation. Here, I think the specialists have to work on this. Thank you, therefore, to those Members who did not support this proposal. I would now like to tell you a little bit about my proposal, which I have tabled and which I will call on you to support. Mrs. Evita Zalīte-Grosa was wrong to say that she has never seen what that is - biological identity. I'll fix the mistake. So this is a child's biological gender identity, which we should protect if we talk about different materials and about the child's... on the impact... about various films broadcast in public media as well as various other materials. My proposal was to add to the list of all these resources, of course, also to the Internet's resources, because, as we understand, life is going ahead and the child is also offered various types of Internet resources - both for entertainment and education - that can contain this kind of information. Unfortunately, we are talking about both violence, pornography and - in this case - factors affecting the biological identity of the child. Members did not agree, yes, and that is why I am calling for the third reading... I call for my proposal to be supported and I call for the third reading to be accompanied, however, by proposals that could be able to correct this... For the purposes of this If you believe that in this case words about the Internet environment should be taken out, because it is not a controlled resource, although at the very beginning... At the first meeting of the Commission, which we held at the beginning of the summer, the police representative also mentioned that there were problems in this regard. So it would also be worth including. But if most of the Members believe that they don't... So, of course, this is a correction. It's much better than the concept of "child sexual orientation" that you wanted to put in. I would like to add that if someone may have doubts that such an amendment is necessary... I would like to read a child's psychotherapist's opinion on the child's gender identity: it is important to realise that gender disorders in children's future can lead to serious consequences, because there is a coherent and unified interaction between mind and body, which is the basis for mental and physical health and contributes to the development of a healthy personality. If there is no biological awareness of sex at the level of mind, the balance between body and psychotic processes is disrupted in a uniform, harmonious and balanced way. Partly broken or completely lost mind and body interactions can affect a person’s psyche and create various destructive sensations, thoughts and behaviours. That is why perhaps one of the colleagues considered that the biological identity of the sex should be directly linked to the protection of the child's mental development. There's no problem, we can add it as... including... words... But I really very much call for this idea to be retained at second reading and to work on it at third reading, if you want to improve something, because if you vote completely out of this proposal, then, as we know very well, there will probably be nothing like that for the third reading. Therefore, honorable Latvian citizens, who also follow the process of adopting this draft law, do not believe those who now say that something will be corrected at the third reading. This is probably not the case. Most likely, this proposal will simply be voted out and at third reading... Well, some kind of mistake will come in again and nothing will happen. Therefore, I would really very much like to call on all those colleagues who regard themselves as advocates of family values, especially those who have declared themselves to be such, to put aside all these factors of jealousy, which are really foolish, but to think about the future, to think about amendments to this law in the name of children's future. I call for support for proposal 10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U126	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U127	Hello, colleagues! I have one question that I would like to ask Mrs Stepanenko. Is it forbidden, Mrs Stepanenko believes, to tell and show the child homosexuals and transsexuals? My duty is to understand her proposal literally. I conclude that this is forbidden, but do I understand correctly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U128	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U129	Mr. Pimenov, yes! Yes, Mr. Pimenov. If you want to show your children a consciously homosexual relationship and also to show them the films that cause them to have this biological gender identity disorder... If a baby shows different films on a regular basis, I'm sorry... There was also a film on public television, where a guy who was dressed in girls’ clothes washed mud and said: “I’m dirty.” ( From English.) If you think that the entertainment of this kind of child is normal and that it is with some added value, then... Yes, Mr. Pimenov, I am calling for such entertainment not to be shown to children. That's right. Just as this article protects children from pornography, from violence, this article should protect children from factors that interfere with biological identity, different films and images. Yes, Mr Pimenov, thank you for your direct question. Thank you. I also call on you to support this proposal, although I do not really hope for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U130	The name to Member Igor Pimenov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U131	You answered not the question I asked you. I understand that entertainment can be interpreted differently, that can be shown in different ways. The question was very specific. Trying to be a transsexual person in the world, tending to be homosexuals. It's not a pervert, it's just an organic... characterised by the quality of such persons or such persons. We can less or more recognise such persons between us, around ourselves, in our society. If I or you or any other person tells his or her own or any other child that, here's a person who lives between us, nothing else they differ from us if, nevertheless, he... are of such quality as are, as I said, very concrete... Do you think it's gonna be... according to the text of your article, your proposal... Will there be any violation? I'm not talking, I repeat, about entertainment, I'm talking about what... a story about what the world is like. Does the child need to know that such persons exist? Do you think the child doesn't need to know that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U132	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so? Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U133	Thank you, colleagues, for the debate. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to remind you that, in view of proposal 10... and given the lack of quality of the proposal, a working group was set up to draw up proposals 9 and 11. With regard to the question asked by Mr Pimenova, I can inform you that this issue was also assessed by the Commission. That was exactly what the debate was about... maybe not in such a section, but... But we touched... And it must be understood that all the speakers who have spoken today about proposals 9 and 10... If the 10th proposal is supported and, let us say, the rule contained in the 10th proposal will, of course, be wrongdoers, because under this proposal there must be no dissemination of information that could endanger... which jeopardises the biological identity of the child. And if a child who has never heard of homosexuals or transpersonals or anyone else, then learns about their existence... Thanks to our debate... Yes, of course, it will be a violation. That is exactly what we pointed out in the Commission that this proposal is of poor quality. Of course, now those who have debated should not worry, because the law is not yet in force. But when it is in force, of course, such things will not be allowed to be discussed. On behalf of the Commission, I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U134	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 25, for - 41, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U135	11. - the Commission's proposal to supplement the first paragraph of Section 50 of the Law with the words "including the identity of the child". Although proposal 9 was not supported, this addition is possible because, as was rightly stated in the debate, the term "identity" should be interpreted in the light of international law. And this proposal can still be supported. The Commission was in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U136	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U137	12. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal. It provides for the addition of Article 50 to the new paragraph as follows: ‘The collection of sensitive data and data on the child’s family situation shall be prohibited.’ This proposal has also been subject to a comprehensive assessment. We heard representatives of several institutions, and... Well, there was outrage because if you accept such a norm, neither child protection institutions, doctors nor orphan courts will be able to collect the information that is necessary for the work of the institutions. And in connection with this proposal, it was considered that, of course, one could think about a special law that protects the child... I'm sorry who protects... which provides for data protection; there may be some clarification there, but this law states that information should not be collected from children - that is wrong. For example, if such a ban were to apply, then we would not be able to investigate violence against children. The proposal was not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U138	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U139	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. I had requested a vote on proposal 11, and it also appeared in the system, but no vote was required, you did not read. I would ask for a vote on proposal 11. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U140	Thank you, Mr. Neighbours. Unfortunately, you have asked for this vote late. We had already gone on the agenda. We are debating proposal 12. Colleagues! There is indeed an opportunity to apply for a debate in good time, as well as to request a vote in good time. And you know exactly what order is when you work in an e-Parliament. We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U141	Colleagues! This proposal has not been made on a level playing field. Here is a story about the surveys that were distributed within the LGBT House Riga project - as if with such an idea to fight against mobbing in school. The problem, however, is that these surveys, which are distributed among children and are completely freely available on the Internet site, include issues that you would probably not want your children to answer, because these questions, of course, included issues such as the family's condition from which you are at all (the parish or street or even the house number). In principle, a very free child was able to include all the information - both about his name and surname, and about his sexual orientation, which was so keenly influenced by Mr. Judin (in previous proposals) and about how he actually goes to school, whether he is abducted, whether he is mobbed or not, and whether it is perhaps because of his orientation or for any other reason. Where is the risk? The risk is that the child entrusts all of this information to a particular psychotherapist or child specialist who works with the children and helps them overcome every crisis that can be... either growth blame or consciousness issues arise... Instead of assigning these really important questions to a psychotherapist, these questions are simply spread over the Internet. We are asked to provide this information as if it were anonymous, but we know very well that children perceive this task in different ways – some people perceive that all these questions must be answered specifically: who you are, what you call, what is your address, what is your family's wealth and what is... Let's tell you what you like most at school. That's one. And the other. As children are used to such surveys, we threaten that children will put such information in their hands and share with strangers what is only in their mind. Therefore, the collection of such data, too, which took place with regard to this LGBT House Riga survey, which, unfortunately, was also supported by the government, as we can see, would really be limited, because it does not in any way help a particular child to cope with his problems. This is simply to conduct a survey to measure the ‘average temperature’. Yeah, what's going on? While you measure it “average temperature” to understand whether children in school are suffering from more of their peers in that region or in another region, at the same time those children are used to providing this information to anyone on the Internet. Second, children who really need help are not helped on a case-by-case basis. So I... This proposal has also been made in cooperation with parent organisations, which were very concerned about this survey. And I know that a complaint was also lodged with the State Data Inspectorate and the State Police. Such surveys should not be possible because such surveys require sensitive data from our children. I call for support for the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U142	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U143	Colleagues, I am very sorry that Mrs Stepanenko ignores the views of experts, but... I will allow you to read the title of the article in which it is proposed to incorporate the provision in question. The title reads as follows: “Children and games, movies, media.” What is the connection with the surveys? I am looking at this proposal and others too, and I understand Mrs Stepanenko's strategy: she finds some problem situation, some point that attracts attention, develops... I don't care what... A poor quality proposal and a suitable or not quite suitable place for it realises that it will be rejected, and then tells everyone that she tried to protect her children from any harm, but did not get her. Question: If you are talking about specific surveys, problems, then you can think about a norm that can solve the problem. Here it is offered to shoot with a gun. In particular, representatives of the Ministry of Welfare participated in our commission, and they indicated in clear language that the State Children's Rights Protection Inspectorate will not be able to work, will not be able to request such information, orphan courts will not be able to obtain information. We are talking about the fact that if someone is studying the issue of violence, then no question should be asked. Do we really want to limit this? Of course not. This proposal is not of high quality and should not call for a single case and offer a framework that will cause damage. This proposal is harmful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U144	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U145	Yeah... Colleagues, something to Mr. Judine, I think, but it's not really... in relation to my work. I very often hear various strange comments. I'm really trying to figure out what's meant under every phrase... some very gross insult, perhaps some legal jealousy, perhaps some unfulfilled dreams, but now I think...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U146	Mrs Stepanenko, please focus on the substance of the proposal, not on other colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U147	Yeah. Very good. And the same should probably have been said to Mr Judine, because if we are discussing the proposal, then we are not talking about the proposer...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U148	On the proposal! On the proposal, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U149	... but we are talking about the proposal. In this case, I think there has also been an infringement by Mr Judine, trying to talk in every way that he can, about what I have thought and what I have done. There's no one here, I don't know, a crowd of fantasiers, but there's everyone here to judge...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U150	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U151	Thank you. Madam President, colleagues. The debate obviously shows that the Commission should continue the discussion, how to really protect... either, to a certain extent, the right of the child to express or not to supply any information. I would like to say that there is very often an anonymous questionnaire in schools, where the question is not only about the economic situation, but also about how the child appreciates it. And the example mentioned by Mr Judin about the Ministry of Welfare is not really in place if there is no answer, how the institutions get certain information from the child. It really has to be laid down by law clearly, clearly and... protecting, to a certain extent, families and children also from perhaps child-motivated attitudes towards which someone... Well, let's say, the State Children's Rights Inspectorate concludes that it is necessary to intervene in family matters. Without questioning the work of inspectors, however, there are practical situations where information is being asked, which really has no legitimate, legitimate or meaningful basis. I would ask the Commission, however, to continue the discussion on the authorisation of this type of information for certain purposes... but it would certainly not only be the State Children's Rights Inspectorate or any public authority... but look at this, to a certain extent, limitation on the acquisition of information somewhat more widely. Consequently, in agreement or not, to which of the two Members who have been dissenting are right at the moment, I call on the Commission, however, to discuss it and make a meaningful decision to protect... and make the information obtained reliable. Children can also answer really emotionally, in the mood of the day, and at this point, based only on the children's answers, it should not be possible for inspectors to draw any specific conclusion, because the law gives you this vote... Overall, looking... to second reading... gives inspectors quite a legitimate right to work without thinking about the reliability of information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U152	Thank you. The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U153	Hello, colleagues! Listening to the debate on a number of proposals, I would call on the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs today, when society as a whole only thinks about how the Covid-19 pandemic will affect their lives, and so also children's lives, to stop... Well, really, colleagues... Perhaps we will talk better about the fact that, for example, in Riga, families with children with disabilities are at risk of receiving school services, because in organisations such as APEIRONS and the Red Cross of Latvia there are still people who have not been vaccinated and who are no longer able to provide services to families with children with disabilities. I have a great request to stop, really it is not worth it. I will join Mrs. Zalīte-Gross in this case that we are discussing... It does not in any way affect reality. Doesn't affect! There are much more important issues that need to be taken care of in the area of the protection of children's rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U154	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U155	First of all, I would like to say on behalf of the Commission that we are discussing the proposals that have been tabled. Whether it is important or not - it does not change anything - we need to assess, and we are working hard to make a decision. Thank you to Mrs Papules for her question. I would like to inform you that we also discussed this issue and the Ministry of Welfare, when presenting its opinion, said that no institution should arbitrarily request any information, every institution should work within its own competences, which means that they can request information that is necessary for the exercise of their functions. I would also like to inform Members that we did not have any discussion about whether any information may be requested. We have discussed the proposal in question, and this proposal provides for a ban on collecting information. In the Commission, we heard from the institutions that if we supported this proposal, the institutions could not work effectively, so the proposal was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U156	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 12, for - 51, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U157	13. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal. Article 50.1 shall be supplemented by a new paragraph as follows: ‘The inclusion of children in medical experiments and clinical trials shall be prohibited.’ The proposal has been evaluated, we listened to the representatives of the institutions and did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U158	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U159	Colleagues! I would like to read to you two articles from the protection of children's rights... the basic law on the basis of which the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child was established accordingly. Articles 172 and 173 lay down: all forms of scientific and other experiments involving a child which are likely to pose a threat to the child shall be prohibited. Experiments with the involvement of the child shall be permitted if there is the consent of the child, his parents or other legal representatives of the child, the written permissions of the Ministry of Welfare and the State Centre for the Protection of the Rights of the Child. And now... We're looking at what's happening to the kids at the moment. We're looking at the kids... As my colleague Regina has already pointed out, there is a very important problem in the country at the moment: children are being forced to make a real choice - to carry out this vaccination. Many children, so right now... for this moment... We have also submitted a request from the Members concerned. There's no children at sea school... special secondary education... They simply don't go to school if they haven't received this vaccine, to interest education for children don't, to football games, to basketball games they don't, if they haven't vaccinated. Tell me that this is not a study if we read the minutes of the State Council for Immunisation on 31 May, which states that on 28 May the European Medicines Agency recommended that the Covid-19 vaccine "Comirnaty" be approved (i.e. less than a year) for children between 12 and 15 years of age and, accordingly, that there was a very small number of children to whom these side effects have been investigated. The Committee assessed data in adolescents from 12 years of age and from a large clinical study and decided to recommend the use of Comirnaty in children. The number of subjects who participated in a large-scale clinical study on the use of Covid-19 vaccine “Comirnaty” in children aged 12 to 15 years is too small to notice any rare specific adverse reactions if they occur in such a population. And then we also read the next protocol of the State Council for Immunisation, which I think came the last one in August, where the same specialists are already discussing the green corridor to be envisaged for patients who develop myocarditis and pericarditis following the use of this vaccine. Now we're talking about young people. We can see that in other countries, this vaccine is being stopped for young people because, however, the data on adverse reactions are beginning to become too much. Tell me, honourable colleagues, are they not experiments with children? Are they not studies currently being carried out in our country regarding the involvement of children in these vaccine experiments? If children were not forced to use these vaccines because they were forced to use them... If a child dreams of a football game, if he dreams of becoming a sportsman, if he wants to study in the institution and he doesn’t go to their institution, then there are kind onkules and aunts, who are then proud of the fact that they have roamed children: “Aa you go and hit without the permission of your parents”, and you really end up proud of what they have done. Is this not a study for children? This is unfortunately true. It's both a study and an experiment. We, together with a number of parents' organisations, call for the ban on these researches and the cessation of children's involvement in them. If you really think that a child in the family needs a vaccine, then use... Go with your child and talk to your doctor, not that your children are in a lot of groups, even without your parents’ knowledge, just to get to the school or to continue your career as a sportsman. This is the regrettable thing that is being done. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U160	Thank you. The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U161	I think that this proposal from Mrs Stepanenko, if it provides for what she has just said, is to ban experiments and studies on Covid-19 vaccines... it should also have written that the proposal is to ban studies, experiments and clinical trials on children in connection with Covid-19 vaccines of any kind. But since the proposal is general and provides for a ban on the use of children in any form of experimentation and clinical research, I would like to point out that Mrs Stepanenko may not, however, have a proposal corresponding to reality... about what then are clinical trials like and... that sometimes it is the only way to save a particular child. If you are concerned, Mrs Stepanenko, about what is happening around Covid-19 vaccination, then I think that the proposal should be formulated specifically, not generally, because we will therefore deny some children who are unfortunately ill with diseases that are not currently being treated, the last chance that in a country some talented, genius scientist is close to an invention that can save the lives of their children, but we will not allow it just because we will ban the children who are the target audience of this particular clinical study... Let us not allow this to happen. I will be critically 'no' and I will also call on my colleagues to vote 'no'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U162	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U163	When discussing this issue, we listened to representatives of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Welfare and the Ministry of Justice, as well as representatives of the Inspectorate of Children's Law Protection. There are two interesting and, in my opinion, important aspects. Thus, first of all, as the Ministry of Health pointed out, this issue of children's participation in clinical research is regulated in the Law on Patients' Rights, and it sets out exactly what its order is. In essence, Mrs Locmele said... Yes, I can only repeat what I heard in the Commission, that there are cases when you can't help your child when the medicine doesn't help, and then you can give some new experimental medicine and save human life. So in principle, no matter how harsh it may sound, but if we support such a proposal not only in the second but in the final reading, then it can cost a child life. Please do not support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U164	I closed the debate. The debate has already been closed. So is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U165	During the debate, I actually said... I can therefore repeat that several institutions were involved and all the experts pointed out that this proposal could not be supported. The Commission did not support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U166	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! About -6, against -62, refraining from -1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U167	Next - 14. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U168	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U169	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U170	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U171	16. - the proposal by Minister for Welfare Petravičs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U172	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U173	17. - the Ombudsman Janson's proposal. It's also editorial. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U174	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U175	18. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Developed in the light of the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 25 March 2021 on restrictions on working with children by punished persons. They were evaluated and supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U176	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U177	And 19. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U178	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U179	Thank you, colleagues. Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U180	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Children” at second reading! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U181	October 19th.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U182	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 19 October this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law “On International Treaties of the Republic of Latvia”, first reading. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Member Krista Baumane.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U183	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We work with Law No. 1095/Lp13 - “Amendment to the Law “On International Treaties of the Republic of Latvia””. The draft law was discussed by the Foreign Affairs Commission at its meeting on 6 October this year. The aim of the draft law is to establish the procedure for clarifying the texts of international agreements Latvian-language translations, by stating that the decision on the specification of the translation is taken by the Foreign Affairs Commission of the Saeima. The draft law will address the problem identified by the Ministry of Justice and State Language Centre, that there are a number of translations of international treaties in Latvian, which are erroneous and do not correspond to the original language of the agreement. The amendments will ensure that the Latvian translation of the international agreement is accurate and in line with the authentic language text of the international agreement, as people rely on published translations of international agreements in Latvian and use them in practice. The draft law applies only to the Latvian translation of international agreements, the authentic or official language of which is not the Latvian language. Finally, I would like to add that the draft law provides for special procedural arrangements in which the translation will be clarified under the direction of the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the ministries of the fields, the State Language Centre and other stakeholders. The Foreign Affairs Commission will take a final decision, but the Commission will not have any debate on terms and on the use of one or the other word or concept. This part of the work will be entrusted to experts and will be made before the translation reaches the Commission. In the Commission on Foreign Affairs, the draft law has been approved. I call on the Saeima to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U184	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the law “On International Treaties of the Republic of Latvia” at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U185	The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 days - 24 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U186	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 24 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Aivars Geidan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U187	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Legal Commission, we worked with the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” (No. 953/Lp13). 112 proposals were received for the second reading. In view of the size of the draft law, the commission looked at it at four meetings, hearing the applicants and legal experts. The draft law has been drawn up in the context of the establishment of the e-case system and its implementation by the courts and many proposals clarify and supplement the wording of the first reading of the draft law. Proposals that are not relevant to the creation of the e-case have also been submitted, which have been developed by the Ministry of Justice in line with the relevant issues examined in the Civil Procedure Law. The proposals have been discussed and agreed on several occasions with the relevant state security institutions and the permanent working group set up by the Minister of Justice for the drafting of amendments to the Civil Procedure Law before submitting them to the Saeima. A number of amendments have been prepared to resolve the issue of protection of tenants' rights and possible solutions in balancing the rights of housing owners and tenants, to improve the procedure of implementation of import into the holding within the framework of the implementation process, as well as to harmonise it with the regulation included in the law on the rental of residential premises regarding the legal relationship status of rental in the event of change of the owner of the residential space. With proposals in Section 205, 238 and 244 of the Civil Procedure Law, which regulates the adoption of interim decisions in cases regarding absence or separation of marriage and in cases arising from custody and right of access, therefore in cases affecting the child, delays in cases not complying with children's rights and best interests will be avoided. The Ministry of Justice has submitted proposals for certain amendments to the Civil Procedure Law necessary to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia and the decision in forced enforcement proceedings. I shall then report successively on the proposals received. 1. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is technical and intends to complement the whole draft law... after the word ‘in person’, the words ‘in paper form’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U188	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U189	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is intended to replace the word ‘explain’ (the corresponding basket) throughout the law by ‘explain’ (the corresponding basket). Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U190	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U191	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Also related to the words ‘explanation’ and ‘explanation’ in the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U192	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U193	4. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partly supported and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U194	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U195	5. - The legal commission's proposal. In addition to Article 11 of the Law, the following wording shall be added: “If it is necessary for the court to verify information which is an object of state secrecy, persons who have not restricted the right of access to the case-file containing state secrecy and, if necessary, other persons holding a special permit for access to state secrecy shall participate in the examination of such information.” Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U196	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U197	6. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Article 24 is added as follows: “If the case under consideration comprises a claim which is related to each other in a case which is subject to both the Economic Court and the Riga City Vidzeme Suburban court under the jurisdiction of the third sentence of the first paragraph of Section 24, or a counterclaim which is subject to a second court has been received by one of these courts, the case shall be heard by the Riga City Vidzeme Suburban court.” Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U198	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U199	7. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Associated with several other proposals aimed at refusing the stationery fee in the Civil Procedure Law of the Institute. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U200	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U201	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is envisaged to amend the Article of the national tax. The need for amendment has arisen with the entry into force of the law on the rental of residential premises, according to which the tenant may place the tenant in an unconditional order not only because of the rent debts, but also if the term of the lease has expired. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U202	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U203	9. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Article 37 shall be supplemented as follows: ‘The Court or a judge shall, on its own initiative or at the request of a person, take a decision on the payment of the national fee if one of the cases referred to in the first paragraph of this Article is established. An application for repayment of the State fee may be submitted to the court in which the case is situated within one year of the date on which the repayment of the State fee was based.’ Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U204	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U205	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Associated with the refusal of the Registry fee in the Civil Procedure Law of the Institute. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U206	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U207	11. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Provision shall be made for supplementing paragraph 3 of the first paragraph of Article 39 by the words ‘or the witness’ after the word ‘the defendant’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U208	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U209	12. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partially supported and included 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U210	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U211	13. - The legal commission's proposal. Editative clarification. The essence of the proposal is to provide that separate costs of proceedings are to be reimbursed by the parties only at the end of the proceedings. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U212	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U213	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. A editorial clarification to harmonise the understanding of the transmission of documents in Article 56. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U214	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U215	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Related to clarification of terminology, replacing the word ‘supply’ by the word ‘sent’ with the words ‘sent’ in the corresponding phrase. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U216	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U217	16. - a editorial proposal by the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns. Related to the provisions of the transitional provisions of the Law on Official Publications and Legal Information, the official newspaper “Latvijas Vēstnesis” is moving to an electronic form. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U218	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U219	17. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partially supported and included 18. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U220	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U221	18. - The legal commission's proposal. The fourth paragraph of Article 61 of the Law shall be supplemented by the words ‘or, where it is necessary for the court to verify the information which is the subject of a national secret or a commercial secret’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U222	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U223	19. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partly supported and included 20. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U224	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U225	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal commission's proposal. The law shall be supplemented by Article 73.2 as follows: ‘The Court of Justice may, by reasoned decision in the interest of the protection of national secrets, restrict the right of parties who do not have an appropriate special permit to have access to national secrets to a volume which summarises the objects of national secrecy, in so far as this does not affect the disclosure of objective truth.’ Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U226	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U227	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal commission's proposal. This proposal reinforces the requirement for the representation of the patent attorney in civil matters. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U228	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U229	22. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partly supported and included 23. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U230	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U231	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal commission's proposal. It shall supplement Article 93 with paragraph 2.1 as follows: “If the parties present evidence or the court asks for evidence containing an object of national secrecy, the court shall request the opinion of the competent authority which classified the information as an object of national secrecy on the party’s right of access.” Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U232	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U233	24. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It shall be provided that the original of the written evidence is returned by the court to the applicant, upon their conversion into electronic form and addition to the file. If it is not possible to convert the original of the written evidence into electronic format, the court shall return it to the applicant after the judgment has become valid. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U234	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U235	25. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partially supported and included 26. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U236	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U237	26. - The legal commission's proposal. Article 128 shall be supplemented by the seventh paragraph as follows: ‘Where a claim relates to an object of national secrecy, the application shall not contain information covered by national secrecy. Information covered by national secrecy shall be given in a separate document.’ Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U238	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U239	27. - The legal commission's proposal. The first and third paragraphs of Article 129 shall be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U240	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U241	28. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U242	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U243	29. - The legal commission's proposal. Article 141 shall be supplemented by the fourth paragraph as follows: ‘If a decision to apply interim protection has been taken without the presence of the defendant or of other parties, the defendant and the other parties shall notify that decision at the same time as the notification of the decision to the claimant.’ Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U244	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U245	30. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. The sixth paragraph shall be expressed as follows: ‘The decision to secure the claim or to apply interim protection by prohibiting the defendant from carrying out certain acts or obligations on the defendant to perform certain acts shall be enforced by the bailiff and shall, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 555 of this Law, notify the defendant or the third party concerned of the decision of the court.’ Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U246	Members are in favour. Dear colleagues, It's time for a break. We have examined 30 proposals in this draft law, we will continue to look at the draft law after a break. Registration of Members' presence. Registration is over. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. So let's get back to work at 13:30. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U247	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. So on the agenda - draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law”, second reading. Before the break, we considered the first 30 proposals. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Aivars Geidan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U248	Thank you for your word. 31. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported and included in proposal 30.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U249	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U250	32. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U251	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U252	33. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The third paragraph of Article 148 shall be worded as follows: ‘Where an explanatory statement is lodged with a court in paper form, it shall be filed in the form in which the case is brought. The explanatory notes shall be accompanied by documents confirming the circumstances on which the objections are based.’ There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U253	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U254	34. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U255	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U256	35. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partly supported and included 36. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U257	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U258	36. - The legal commission's proposal. Article 148 shall be supplemented by paragraph 3.1 as follows: ‘The defendant shall not indicate in the explanatory notes any information covered by national secrecy. Information covered by national secrecy shall be given in a separate document.’ Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U259	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U260	37. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. In the fourth subparagraph, the words ‘its replacement’ shall be replaced by the word ‘its’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U261	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U262	38. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Article 30 of the draft law is to be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U263	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U264	39. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U265	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U266	40. - The legal commission's proposal. It is envisaged to supplement Article 38 of the draft law with the following amendment: ‘If, for technical reasons, it is not possible to add the judgment to the online system on the date of delivery of the judgment, the judgment shall be available at the court Registry on the same date. The date of delivery of the judgment in such a case shall be deemed to be the date on which the judgment is available at the court Registry.’ Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U267	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U268	41. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is provided that the court may also, on its own initiative, order enforcement of the judgment in whole or in part without delay. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U269	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U270	42. - The legal commission's proposal. The application shall be accompanied by evidence confirming the circumstances on which the application is based. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U271	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U272	43. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U273	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U274	44. - The legal commission's proposal. Provision shall be made for: ‘Where, for technical reasons, it is not possible to add the decision to the online system on the date of delivery of the decision, the decision shall be available at the court Registry on the same date. The date on which a decision is delivered or drawn up in such a case shall be deemed to be the date on which the decision is made available to the Registry.’ Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U275	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U276	45. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partly supported and included 46. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U277	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U278	46. - The legal commission's proposal. It is envisaged to supplement the draft law: the court may, at the reasoned request of a party, review the decision laid down in the third paragraph of Article 238.1 where circumstances have changed significantly and this is in the best interests of the child. Such a decision shall not be subject to appeal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U279	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U280	47. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partly supported and included 48. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U281	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U282	48. - The legal commission's proposal. It provides for the addition of Article 244.10 as follows: ‘If a court does not establish a basis for a review of a decision or for a new decision or if it considers that proceedings may be initiated on the substance, it shall take a decision refusing to accept the application. The decision to refuse an application shall be taken by the Court in the form of a resolution and shall not be subject to appeal.’ Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U283	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U284	49. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is planned to include information about the judgment, including the publication of a court judgment in the media and the official publication “Latvijas Vēstnesis”. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U285	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U286	50. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U287	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U288	51. - The legal commission's proposal. The law shall be supplemented by a new article in the following wording: ‘If, for technical reasons, it is not possible to add the judgment to the online system on the date of delivery of the judgment, the judgment shall be available at the court Registry on the same date. The date of delivery of the judgment in such a case shall be deemed to be the date on which the judgment is available at the court Registry.’ Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U289	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U290	52. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Article 68 of the draft law is to be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U291	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U292	53. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U293	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U294	54. - The legal commission's proposal. The fifth paragraph of Article 250.35 shall be supplemented by the notification to the defendant of the application for interim measures imposed at the same time as the notification of the decision to the applicant. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U295	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U296	55. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U297	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U298	56. - The legal commission's proposal. It provides: ‘After the written request of the parties, the judgment shall be sent without delay after the date on which the judgment was drawn up. The receipt of a judgment shall not affect the calculation of time limits.’ Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U299	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U300	57. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Article 72 of the draft law is to be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U301	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U302	58. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U303	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U304	59. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U305	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U306	60. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U307	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U308	61. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Article 82 of the draft law is to be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U309	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U310	62. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Article 251 shall be supplemented by paragraph 15: ‘in respect of the acquisition of real estate’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U311	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U312	63. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U313	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U314	64. - The legal commission's proposal. In Article 255, second paragraph, the words ‘and third’ shall be deleted. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U315	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U316	65. - The legal commission's proposal. In the second paragraph of Article 270.11, the words ‘a copy of the decision will be made available’ shall be replaced by ‘a decision will be made available’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U317	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U318	66. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. The first paragraph of Article 284 provides for the exclusion of the words ‘at the expense of the applicant’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U319	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U320	67. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. The first paragraph of Article 295 provides for the exclusion of the words ‘at the expense of the applicant’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U321	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U322	68. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U323	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U324	69. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. On import of immovable property into possession, on the documentation and information required for submission to court, as well as on the procedure for examination of the application and making a decision for admission into possession of immovable property. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U325	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U326	70. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Article 137 of the draft law provides for the exclusion of the words ‘if the relationship is based on a contract concluded after 1 January 2014’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U327	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U328	71. - The legal commission's proposal. Arrangements shall be made for the documents to be attached to the appeal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U329	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U330	72. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U331	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U332	73. - The legal commission's proposal. It is envisaged to exclude the last sentence of the first paragraph of Article 423 of the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U333	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U334	74. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U335	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U336	75. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is envisaged to exclude Article 154 of the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U337	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U338	76. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U339	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U340	77. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported and included 78. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U341	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U342	78. - The legal commission's proposal. Add the first paragraph of Article 440.11 with the following wording: ‘If, for technical reasons, it is not possible to add the judgment to the online system on the date of delivery of the judgment, the judgment shall be available at the court Registry on the same date. The date of delivery of the judgment in such a case shall be deemed to be the date on which the judgment is available at the court Registry.’ Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U343	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U344	79. - The legal commission's proposal. Provision shall be made for the submission of documents accompanying the complaint. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U345	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U346	80. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U347	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U348	81. - The legal commission's proposal. On the content of the cassation complaint and the documents to be attached thereto. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U349	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U350	82. - The legal commission's proposal. Article 457 of the Law provides for the exclusion. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U351	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U352	83. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U353	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U354	84. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. On cassation complaint security, which must be paid to a certain amount in the deposit account of the Supreme Court. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U355	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U356	85. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U357	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U358	86. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U359	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U360	87. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U361	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U362	88. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U363	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U364	89. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U365	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U366	90. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported and included 91. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U367	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U368	91. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U369	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U370	92. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. The third and fifth subparagraphs of Article 544 shall be replaced by the words ‘cancelery levies’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U371	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U372	93. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U373	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U374	94. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Article 560 shall be supplemented by a sixth paragraph as follows: ‘The imposition of sanctions on the debtor shall not constitute a ground for suspension of enforcement proceedings, but shall not remove, until the penalties have been lifted, the enforcement funds imposed on the debtor’s assets and shall not pay the debtor any sums due.’ Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U375	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U376	95. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U377	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U378	96. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U379	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U380	97. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Article 590 shall be supplemented by the ninth paragraph as follows: ‘The person subject to sanctions may not retain the property preserved if the acquisition of the property is incompatible with the restrictions imposed by the sanctions.’ Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U381	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U382	98. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U383	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U384	99. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U385	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U386	100. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Article 615 shall be supplemented by paragraph 3.1 as follows: ‘The person subject to sanctions may not retain the immovable property if the acquisition of the property is incompatible with the restrictions imposed on it by the sanctions.’ Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U387	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U388	101. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Article 211 of the draft law is to be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U389	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U390	102. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U391	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U392	103. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Defaults to create new... Articles 620.6 and 620.7 to determine the arrangements in the event of entry into the possession of immovable property in the presence of the debtor. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U393	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U394	104. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U395	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U396	105. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U397	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U398	106. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Complements the draft law on the provisional decision: “The court shall, at the request of a party or on its own initiative, adopt a provisional decision establishing a ban on the removal of the child from the country until the decision on the unlawful transfer of the child across the border to Latvia or the detention in Latvia is taken. [...]” supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U399	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U400	107. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U401	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U402	108. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The transitional provisions shall be specified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U403	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U404	109. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partly supported and included 111. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U405	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U406	110. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported and included 111. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U407	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U408	111. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U409	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U410	112. - The legal commission's proposal. The law shall enter into force as follows: ‘The law shall enter into force on 1 December 2021.’ Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U411	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U412	All the proposals have been examined. On behalf of the Commission, I call on my colleagues to vote in favour of the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U413	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law” at second reading! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U414	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading shall be five days, i.e. until 19 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-14-PT13-2301-U415	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 19 October this year. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting has been examined. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. Dear colleagues, On October 14, this year, the second remote emergency session will begin in 15 minutes at 14.05 p.m. So the second extraordinary sitting is at 14.05 a.m. I closed my first remote emergency sitting on 14 October this year.
