ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-02-PT13-2326-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Let us begin the remote emergency sitting on 2 December this year. First of all, the procedure has been applied for by the Member, Ralph Nemiro. Please enter the procedure section. The name to Member Ralph Nemir. ( Pause) We can't hear you, Mr. Nemir. We can't hear you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-02-PT13-2326-U2	Yeah, I'm sorry. Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I wanted to talk about Article 5 of the Satversme, which currently states – the Saeima consists of 100 Members. At the moment, however, we do not see in our ranks the Romen Money of the National Alliance and the non-group Members Julia Stepanenko. This is, in fact, an injustice, and there is no logical reason why these Members would not be able to take part in our remote sittings. Neither can we infect them, nor can they infect us, so I would like this issue to be reflected in the vernacular and we, as Members responsible, to speak about this, because we cannot exclude people who have received a popular mandate from the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-02-PT13-2326-U3	Thank you. Colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the fact that 81 Members of the Saeima are present at the Saeima sitting – not 100, but 81. So, honourable colleagues, let's start the sitting. First of all, the amendments tabled to the Bureau's approved agenda. Members Klementjevs, Nikonovs, Lochmele, Agešins and Rubiks are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to exclude from it the draft decision “On Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 11 November 2021 No. 828 as amended by Order No 828 of 9 October 2021. 720 ‘Advertising the Emergency’. Will Members speak for or against? ‘ For” has applied to speak by Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-02-PT13-2326-U4	Madam President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, When examining this issue within the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, unfortunately, there was no opportunity to ask a question and to receive an answer because the head of the Commission has, on many occasions, excluded the microphone, did not give the floor to the Members and, in the same way, meant who would answer the question. Well, since this issue is very important for all our people in Latvia, because people die every day, we, as Members (especially those in the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption), also want to know exactly what we will vote on and how we prevent the consequences of this community. I therefore call for this question to be excluded from the Saeima's remote sitting of 2 December 2021 in order to examine the second time and to receive the necessary answers to specific questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-02-PT13-2326-U5	Thank you. ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-02-PT13-2326-U6	Good morning, dear colleagues! I absolutely do not agree with Mr Klementyev that he has not had the opportunity to ask questions without having had the opportunity to find out certain things relating to this order 828. Another thing that Mr. Klementyev and certain other Members wanted to talk about is not about the specific things mentioned in this order, but about the other things that are already beginning to develop as a tradition in our commission, namely, they are beginning to talk about the system, it is not really clear what they mean by that system... In one word, it is often a saying that everything is bad in the country, and then they are interested in hypothetical questions, for example, this order does not at any moment talk about things like some sort of thing in Serbia. Why are the certificates there, but in Latvia are the following? This was not a matter of this order, so Mr Klementyev was asked to write personally about this issue to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to find out how these matters are dealt with in Serbia and not to delay precisely the time of this sitting. I understand Mr Klementyev's insult, but I have always called for and will also call for a very strict follow-up to the specific orders of the Cabinet of Ministers that we are discussing in our sittings. Unfortunately, we don't have time, we don't sit back... Whereas, in August (at an intersessional time when we can devote three days to one question), when a sitting was organised for one separate draft law, where there was a very similar principle to that of a free microphone, where each of the Members was able to speak about anything and even the draft law, but to talk about how bad everything is in the country, what system is not organised there, as it is in other countries and so on. So, colleagues, here is Mr. Klementyev's insult, that is absolutely unwarranted insult.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-02-PT13-2326-U7	Colleagues, I urge you not to talk personally about each other. Colleagues! I invite you not to talk personally about one another!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-02-PT13-2326-U8	He did not ask for any of the specific points of order, he asked anything completely unrelated, and in any case...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-02-PT13-2326-U9	Mr. Rancan, Mr. Rancan! I call on Members not to talk about each other, but about the specific proposal that has been tabled, about excluding the draft specific decision from the agenda of the sitting. Also the name of Member Juris Rancan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-02-PT13-2326-U10	So, again, my reason why I am calling for a 'no' vote, I have just called. More specifically, it is not possible. So I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-02-PT13-2326-U11	Thank you, colleagues. So we have one Member talking about removing the draft decision from the agenda of the sitting, one Member against. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote on the order of 11 November 2021 of the Cabinet of Ministers on draft decision No. 828 as amended by Order No 828 of 9 October 2021. 720 The removal of the emergency from the agenda of the Saeima! Please, let's vote! - 31, against - 48, refrains - not. Consequently, the draft decision is not excluded from the agenda of the sitting, and we will look at it today. The following items are on the agenda: reports by the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “On the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Denmark, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of National Defence of Canada and the Canadian Armed Forces, the Minister of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Italy, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Supreme Command of the United Kingdom in Europe on the activities, composition, financing, administration and support of the State Division of the Multinational Division “North” be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, establishing that it is the responsible commission. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law presented by the President of Latvia “Amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers’ Equipment Law” be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-02-PT13-2326-U12	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, We, the Union of Greens/Farmers, called for the President of Latvia to meet some time ago to discuss the current issues that we believe should be dealt with and where we would see greater involvement of the President. To whom, of course, we received a rather strange position from the President of Latvia, where he in principle said that he ignored the opposition of the Saeima, and in essence he did not seem to have to discuss any important national issues separately with the opposition of the Saeima. At this point, we see that the President of Latvia has submitted such a draft law, and it becomes absolutely clear from this draft law that, at least in our view, the President does not really understand what is priorities and what is not. The President of Latvia submits a draft law on the creation of a new post – the Minister of State – by 14. The parliament, which is by nature dedicated, expands the political market to 14. The building of the government of the Saeima. That doesn't mean anything more. Right now... we have had similar positions in Latvia – 11 ministers of special tasks have been. I think colleagues with more experience well remember when, and why, such ministers have been formed at all, why they have been applied for, and unfortunately nothing more than the political market there has been. But if we look at how this process has developed, yes, such cross-sectoral solutions are in principle not created by ministers of special tasks for the decade, despite the fact that already in the law... Our Prime Minister, Krišjānis Kariņš, should only want it and he could peacefully create such a... No matter, in demographic matters, in e– things – he does not care, he has such opportunities, but now the President of Latvia proposes that something like this be determined again. After the time of special tasks ministers in 2010... The era ended in a way, a Coordination Centre was set up, which, by its very nature, would have to deal with it. And the special care centre... It is under the authority of the Prime Minister, and in some ways the question is just how we have recently seen how many representatives of the Transparency Coordination Centre want to listen to at all, including Covid-19. And, my fellow Members, I do not remind you of what happened at the end of June when this very cross-cutting institution warned you of the consequences of the fall. Unfortunately, no decisive steps were taken by the government. But with regard to this, in our view, such an issue as such should not be passed on to the commission at all, because in the very statement we clearly see that examples are mentioned – bad in our view... In the opinion of the President of Latvia, the Ministry of Welfare and the Ministry of the Interior work badly, whose direct responsibilities include the following examples: children's rights and the resolution of e- things. But, colleagues, overall, I think the President of Latvia goes in a completely false direction. We should move... Modern public administration now means a small, compact public administration and should go in that direction. Now we're offering... Basically... The President of Latvia is, in essence, proposing to increase the public administration with dual functions, and this is not the direction in which it should go. This is not the direction promised by a whole series of political parties at the start of these elections, and I think that these parties in general have a moral right to vote on this issue at the moment "in favour", and at all, to begin to really deal with this issue... wouldn't be the right place, because we know – everyone talked about the reduction in ministries. Currently, the expansion of ministries is being offered clearly and lightly, and in principle, the expansion of the political market. And that will in no way solve those issues, for example, if we are talking about professionals, which the President of Latvia also mentions here, then at the end of the day we see what we have as the Minister of Health when we have the greatest health crisis. Despite what all professional organizations speak there, he continues to perform this post. What professionalism are we talking about? At least in the context of this government, there are a number of ministers who should be asked about their suitability for this post. But to solve the problem of substance, the President of Latvia proposes to create a new post. Colleagues! This is not in line with today's situation and I call for this draft law to be rejected at its very root. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-02-PT13-2326-U13	Thank you. Mr Feldman, will you talk about the handing over of the bill?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-02-PT13-2326-U14	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-02-PT13-2326-U15	So “for” applied to speak Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-02-PT13-2326-U16	Good morning, dear colleagues! Dear Chairman of the Saeima. From the morning onwards, there has been such a difficult debate on various issues. I... On this point, I will probably have to be like a few technical things. The first thing is, therefore, that this is not a vote on conceptual support. This vote, which will take place, is about passing a specific draft law on to the Commission, and discussions are continuing within the Commission, and then the Commission is either driving or not directing conceptual support to the Saeima plenary on a draft law that we call first reading. And, for example, new Conservatives in the past also various issues that... has taken the view that it is justified, or for some reason, to have a discussion or an opportunity for the applicant to explain, for example, its draft law... has supported the referral of the draft law to the Commission. The other thing is... This is the speech... with this vote, it is about showing such respect to the President of the State. I would like to remind you, of course, that I understand that the Greens/Farmers Union did not vote in favour of Egils Levit as President of State, and therefore they would also like to ignore any legislative initiatives coming from the President. In this case, I would say that the President of Latvia, who is only one of the few persons who can initiate law (e.g. five Members, the Government, the Commission, also the President)... In this case, it would be a honour to have the opportunity for the President of Latvia to come and explain to the Members of the Commission, including members of the opposition, who have obviously not been given any explanation of what he was thinking of this matter. Generally speaking, there is no dispute that... Well, I have to agree that maybe there is no particular time for the proposal, and moreover... at least for young Conservatives, I can say that, the less public administration, the better. It can be well-paid public administration, but it should be effective, compact. And in this case, of course, that vector in this draft law is perhaps rather an increase in public administration, because we already know that if there is a minister (whether he is a ordinary minister, a prime minister, a special task minister or, for example, such a minister of superiors), then he would also need a ministry or another one that would, of course, inevitably also mean an increase in public administration, and thus an increase in public administration. And that's how... There must, of course, be such a big, fundamental justification to support such things. But that reason must be heard by the Commission, so I say so... Although I am sceptical about conceptual support, the need for a discussion, the possibility of giving the President of Latvia the opportunity to also explain to the members of the opposition what he has thought about, it must be supported. Consequently, I also call on those who did not vote in favour of the President-in-Office to support his legislative initiatives. Let's be honest, that's not so much. And they come, and we should show such respect to the President's institution, so I call for a vote in favour this time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-02-PT13-2326-U17	Thank you, colleagues. So one Member said 'for', one spoke 'for'. We will vote in favour of the referral of the draft law to the commission concerned. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers’ Equipment Law” to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 50, for - 20, for - 14. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, report on the motives for voting. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Mr. Zarins, you need to log in electronically again.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-02-PT13-2326-U18	Good afternoon, everybody! The President of Latvia has indicated in his letter to the Saeima that one management problem in Latvia is the lack of political knowledge and effective management of cross-sectoral policies. In fact, the problem of this failure is much more comprehensive and deeper, so that it is not to say that it is completely bottom-down, that is, this failure has been established in the very foundations of power, that is, thanks to the specific political situation in Latvia, which has been created purposefully, by pulling red lines into the escapism of power, the possibility of full political competition has been destroyed. It is therefore impossible to make a real change of power, which is a fundamentally important democratic mechanism, without which democracy cannot work as an effective instrument of public administration, because the power that cannot be replaced loses responsibility for its actions. That is also why there is a possibility in our country of ever greater and greater inconsistency, increasing insecurity and insecurity, because the above-mentioned political manipulations create and artificially maintain the situation so that no alternatives are possible to power. In such a situation, any power of the state turns out. It no longer cares about the quality of its decisions, because it is not necessary to keep up with its promises and to be accountable to the public. It is enough that decisions are put into practice within the framework of the existing political cartel, because it is these political cartel transactions that, rather than meaningfully responsible decisions, ensure the further existence of this power with all its consequences – further growing failure of power, irresponsibility and lack of competence. As a result, in such a situation, power is losing the need to delegate operational powers to positions of responsibility... I'd be more powerful, because if you're in the wheels... And you can delegate... are delegated not to the most powerful but to the most useful of power. Manipulated positions of responsibility are more appropriate and necessary for this power. Therefore, no matter how deep the intention of this President of Latvia is, nothing meaningful can come into being there, because if you have an almost dead horse or someone who wants to eat from the dead, you can put the wheels in a longitudinal or transverse way, nothing meaningful will come from it. In this situation, the President of Latvia has to share responsibility for the existing power of power, because it is the President of Latvia who has made declarations about this power's unalternative nature that has increased the irresponsibility and permissiveness of this power in all dimensions – both horizontal and vertical. And it cannot be repaired in this way, it can only be repaired by replacement of a horse by a sniffing someone who is able to wear a wedding. And then we don't have to look at which end of the wedding we're still supposed to find what we're supposed to put on it. Within this framework of power, additional ministers will only increase the meaning of power. Moreover, if two ministers are to be allowed to take orders from the same department, such unherented decisions of different ministers will lead to stochastic turbulence in these public administrations. This will enable the power to use it in combinations of irresponsibleness and lenientness that have not yet existed. The promotion of cross-sectoral cooperation is an operational duty and a political opportunity for the Prime Minister. An effective Prime Minister does not need the ministers of state, which will only create an additional political stalemate. And the delivery mechanism for such cross-sectoral cooperation already exists – it is the focal point for the coordination of the Reconnaissances, it is the councils, the various agencies and foundations that have already been set up and will be set up in the future. It is important that it is finally meaningful and aligned, that it is used skillfully for the purposes for which it is intended. What it needs is to grip the horse, which is able to pull it, and give a stick to this horse to shoot if it does not pull it or tries to pull it off. And this is the opportunity of the opposition to actually monitor power. Amendments are required not in the Cabinet of Ministers' equipment law, but in the Parliamentary Investigation Commission law, which would require that the management of the Investigation Commission should be entrusted to those who initiated it. The opposition has long addressed such a request to the President of the State, because in the current political situation only the President has a real opportunity to initiate it. Mr President, if you really care about the power of power, not the good of the existing power cartel, give us this stick, and we will make this power responsible and operational. This draft law will not help, so I cannot support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-02-PT13-2326-U19	Thank you. So we have heard the report on the motives for voting. Dear colleagues, A technical break of 20 minutes is required. We'll get back to work at 9.50. Technical break – 20 minutes. ( Interruption)
