ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2340-U1	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! We're going on. The agenda of the third remote emergency session of the Saeima on 22 December 2021 shall be considered. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. The first is the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Cielēns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2340-U2	Hello, honourable leader of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission in its meeting today discussed and prepared for consideration, to move to the Saeima sitting the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection” (No. 1280/Lp13). Taking into account the unprecedented price increase in energy markets, which affects every energy service provider and every citizen in Latvia and other European countries, it is necessary to extend the range of households entitled to receive state and municipal support in Latvia. The aim of the draft law is to provide equivalent support in all municipalities to low-income households at risk of settlement of housing maintenance during this heating season, in particular to the elderly and persons with disabilities who also have a low income but who slightly exceed the income threshold of the Social Services and Social Assistance Act. On the other hand, from January 2021, the thresholds for minimum income... for the introduction of a single... housing benefits regulation and autumn... The ongoing increase in heat prices will have an impact on municipal budgets to a greater extent than previously predicted. Therefore, an immediate solution is needed. In order to address the impact of heat price rises in this heating season on the most vulnerable and most at risk of poverty households and at the same time to enable municipalities to provide other social support measures... necessary funding, it is proposed to amend the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection by providing that municipalities are provided with a state targeted grant of 50 per cent of the actual expenditure... For housing benefits... This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Co-financing of housing allowances in the amount of 50 per cent of the funds actually used by the municipality... five months... There is an indicative need for EUR 16.7 million. The draft law was unanimously supported by the Commission and was declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the Saeima to declare the draft law urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2340-U3	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 law on the control of the spread of infection”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2340-U4	The Commission unanimously supported the first reading of the draft law. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2340-U5	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2340-U6	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, I will also call for support for this draft law at first reading. I would like to say that it is not that this draft law is now in place - suddenly. We in the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union pointed out this already during the preparation of the budget, as well as after the budget... We called on the Saeima twice to submit proposals in the very same law, in which the government also now proposes these amendments... We propose the same amendments and make this decision now. Unfortunately, this was not fully heard by the coalition. Last week, when we debated this, my colleague, Krišjānis Feldman, mentioned the concern that the Minister for Finance Reirs, sees that this issue has been strongly supported and that this is really a matter that he cares about... and the government as a whole cares about this issue. But I would like to remind you that the Latvian Municipal Union indicated this as one of the main things in the budgeting negotiations, which should be from 2022. What about... insists on the government and thus on the Minister for Finance Reir... was that everything was fine. This data, which is... in this bill... was known already in the summer. You didn't have to wait... It's December. These data were known in summer. And in fact, it would have been ideal if this aid had been available from October. That would have been more correct. Okay, it's 1 January. But in essence, this pressure - the government to listen to this essential proposal - was extremely important. When Mr. Feldman asked... I don't understand it, that Mr. Reira seems to support this issue... I'll see why I don't think so. I mean, here in the Saeima, parliamentary investigations... Covid-19... In the commission of inquiry, we talked, among other things, about support instruments, support mechanisms, and this issue... It was still in the autumn... I put this question to Mr Reira in the autumn, during the budgetary process. Even when the draft budget was reviewed at the Saeima and the proposals were further examined by the committees, I asked Mr Reira this question, and Mr Reira gave me a long and wide-ranging reply on why this was not necessary... such a question is, she thinks, well arranged... and why do not provide any housing allowance... that the municipalities are all right and that the allowance is, well, around 2023. Colleagues, in my opinion, the pressure that the STECF has shown against the government on this matter was right and, at the moment, it has brought some results and... also some kind of fruit. And I thank all those who heard us. And this 50 percent... support, in my opinion, is in the right place. And, of course, there is still work to be done to clarify the rules, so that the municipalities also have a little more loose hands to grant this benefit, because it is also a problem that, unfortunately, we will not change only by this law. Now there's a whole series of... A new system, a new way of granting housing benefits, has been introduced. And this system, unfortunately... There are quite a lot of cases when... not only the fact that this money is being given, but also the way in which... The law determines how this money can be used... It also restricts municipalities in a certain way. It is also, in my view, a mixed and improving situation for the benefit of as many citizens as possible. Therefore, colleagues, I call for support for this draft law, and our colleagues in the group will also support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2340-U7	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2340-U8	Dear President, Honourable Members! Of course, we will also support this draft law, just... Here are a few reflections on whether we are dealing with these issues and whether we will continue to deal with the benefits or whether we are dealing with them in principle and radically... what Latvia can do. Today's situation. If we look at Last week's Latvenergo news... Latvia produces about 105 percent of the energy we need. Then there's the first question... what I do not hear - how then is the situation that we produce five percent more than we need, energy, because the water level is very high in the HES, but electricity prices do not increase by 10 or 15 percent, as consumption in Europe increases, but by two, three, four and even 10 times. So clear and bright... We have HES that produces free electricity... either, plus small depreciation expenses if they have returned themselves, but... We must say clearly and clearly that this situation is the result of the unreasonable action of the European Commission... Thus - allowing this speculation and the purchase of electricity and gas on a stock exchange, where prices are rising ten... several times. So - we can deal with the benefits, pretend that everything is fine, and continue this crazy green course by the European Commission, which is also being implemented, for example, by Latvian representative Valdis Dombrovskis, or we can nationalise the Inčukalns repository, put speculators from there and buy gas, as Poland is doing at the moment, using the reverse opportunity to sum up from other places... the oil pipeline “Družba”. So Poland is currently pumping gas... I don't know, but... The opportunities are both for the North Sea... where both the British, the Danish and the Dutch get... You can pump Algerian gas, you can pump Azerbaijani gas through Turkey, but not now, in winter... Incukalns gas storage allows to provide Latvia with gas for about three years, and there is always an opportunity to pump it sometime in summer, when these prices are the lowest. So Latvenergo can do this. Of course, there is a law to change, we have to nationalize... and - strike these speculators. The second option is, of course, to put an end to the practice that Latvenergo, when electricity is cheap, does not sell it but closes the locks, raises water levels in the Daugava and accumulates water, and sells electricity on the Nord Pool exchange at the highest prices, and then we buy it back to Latvia at these maximum prices. Since I am calling for these two issues not to be separated, but to think about how to resolve these issues substantially, to eliminate all the speculations of the European Commission that have been introduced here, and not to pretend that we are accidentally... as it is said here, you're in trouble, we've suddenly been hit by an energy crisis from a blue air. We have no crisis, we have a surplus of five per cent at the moment, and only our stupidity leads us to try to solve these crucial issues regularly with some kind of benefits. But I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2340-U9	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2340-U10	Yes, indeed, as the previous speaker has pointed out - what is happening at the moment - there is a fight against the consequences. But it would also be very important to understand the causes, otherwise we will simply come up with the consequences in this fight as a counter that will bring us deeper and deeper into. The fact that such a crisis is threatening - it was in principle predictable. Personally, I warned about this at the beginning of the autumn, also publicly - I tried to publish my opinion in the media, each one of them can see about it, and now all this is happening. Indeed, if we want to find the right solution, then we need to look deeper. And here, in turn, I cannot agree with the previous speaker about the solutions that have been proposed, because the situation is that here to find this solution... with causes... it is not only to be searched at the level of Latvia. The problem is rooted in what this market model for energy markets was created at the level of the European Union... and, of course, in parallel with this, I would say, the implementation of a rather irresponsible green course. So - not the green course is irresponsible (it could be a perspective case), but the way it was implemented was irresponsible. In fact, it looked something like that: every Member State simply hoped that she would do, that she would do the green course, but that the side effects that may arise from the implementation of this green course would be compensated by the resources of other countries. And now we see that it hasn't worked, that all countries, relying more on each other, hoping that, well, here's the country next to it... if anything, then... nothing - if we don't blow the wind, then somewhere else will blow and we will be able to buy ourselves the amount of energy we need through the interconnections. It hasn't worked. This shows that there must be more systemic solutions, which are more thoughtful, so that this green course can be implemented correctly and successfully. If this is not done, then we inevitably face these side effects, and this is all just the beginning of the story - just the beginning. It's going to go on, because we're looking at that situation... What must be understood is that if we place an ever greater and greater emphasis on the use of renewable energy sources, we have to take into account that these energy uses are not dependent on us, but depend more on the Lord God - if he decides that the rain will rain, we will turn if the wind blows - the turbines will turn if the sun shines - the solar panels will produce electricity, but if the sun does not shine... No matter how much we need it, we will not have it, and in this situation we will have to think of where to take this energy, that is, think in parallel with these balancing capacities. And it's not as simple here as the math that if we're equipped with 1,000 megawatts, then somewhere else we're gonna stand for another 1000 megawatts when we need it, we'll take as much as we need - 100, 200, 300, 400, 500 if we don't have those 1000... renewable energy generation capacities. That's not the case, because we're looking for this kind of power to be activated... Let's say it's said we're going to make a 1000 megawatts. Each power has its own specific characteristics, so, as I mentioned, the pros and cons - each has its own pros and cons. For example, the big plus for renewable energy really is that they are given by nature, we don't have to pay for them, wind blows up, and if we don't think of some kind of special levy on wind or water, then it seems to us that it's free of charge, but the biggest minus is that these capacities are not regulated or are relatively regulated. For example, HES depends on how much water it can accumulate. In our case, we cannot accumulate as, let us say, in Norway for the whole season and, when necessary, simply use this water, in our case, within the limits of the day. Here we go. Go on. If we're talking... On the same nuclear energy that we are talking about, there's once again a problem that these capacities cannot be regulated as easily as possible, so the station can't be crushed as it crippled. Everyone has seen... the one who has looked at the series about Chernobyl... Well, there it is popular about what it can lead to. There, too, he decided to play with power. Consequently, there are also their limitations. On the other hand, stations that are so convenient to balance these gaps - energy resources have been declared to be those that we should give up. It's gas and coal. And what has happened is one of the things, so this model, which is now... only these external factors are mentioned, about their external demand, about the climate conditions that have affected it - yes, all of them really were objective things that are not partly dependent on us. In fact, even where we are talking about global energy demand, let us say about this liquefied gas, if we look at it, it is due to East Asia and South-East Asia. Then one of the huge demand drivers for liquefied natural gas was like the green course taken by China once, namely, China is now the world's largest importer of green energy. The same is true for turbines and for turbines. And in a situation where there was a lack of this wind and there was no place for them to take energy, they were forced... And they did it, too... began to step up... This led to this additional demand for liquefied gas, which in turn led to an increase in the price on the European Union market. In turn... Whereas the European Union... and here is another aspect... So one - to talk about how we integrate the green course, the other - how the European Union's gas market has been built. And that is again a very important point. The creation of the European Union's gas market obviously also leads to a fundamental mistake. In particular, the architects of the European Union's gas market had intended and looked at the European gas market as a desirable (allegorically speaking) woman, whom everyone will want and everyone will be ready to try for her. In particular, the European gas market is that suppliers will fight for this gas market all the time, but it turned out (as we see) that the European gas market is not at all the same as the most interesting gas suppliers. Where is the problem? The problem is - leaving this framework - that suppliers of gas - the European gas market - will always fight: if we make this gas market as liberal, speculative as possible, then we achieve that these gas suppliers will have the greatest possible chance to fight with each other and thus drive down the price. And the European consumer will benefit from it. So - the more liberal the market is in a competitive environment, because... we get the result that this competition will push the gas price down as much as possible, and this will happen more quickly. This calculation made this gas market - as speculative as possible - more liberal. This mechanism, on the other hand, is in a situation where it suddenly turns out that gas suppliers are not fighting for a European market, but rather offering it in another market, and when there is a shortage of gas suppliers here... then this liberal - the most liberalised - and speculative market is beginning to work in the opposite direction and leads to this abnormal overheating of prices. That's what's happened. And to a large extent, this huge increase in the price of gas on the European market is not due to the accusation of a gas supplier or these global factors, but precisely because of this gas market. I will just give you an example. At the beginning of autumn, long-term supply prices for the same “Gazprom”, all for the hate and the guise, increased to, in my opinion, 270 euros or dollars... $ 270 per 1000 cubic metres. The price of gas in the European Spot markets has risen to a thousand. Here is the difference between 270 and thousands of things that this wrong model of the gas market has created. Why am I telling you all this? Because before me Mr Kirštein, whose party is in charge of the Ministry of Economics, called for solutions. The solutions you've been telling me, big-- they will not work, they are not possible. First of all, speaking about Inčukalns - it's too late to nationalize, because it already belongs to a large... the biggest shareholder there is the state. And that speculator, as you say... which speculates there, then it comes out - you are criticising it for the country itself, although in fact Incukalns does not trade in gas at all. It is simply a poster where gas traders come together with their goods, where they offer it and then continue to offer it to Latvian consumers. Go on. What you are talking about HES will not work either, because there is again a market model that has been created, and within this market model what Latvian HES is doing - it is the most rational and actually the most advantageous way for them. And nothing else... no other mechanisms of operation would be possible. In particular, I would like to say that this solution needs to be sought more broadly, more systematically, namely to reassess the pros and cons of the realisation of this green course (I am talking about risks here), even more so, how to regulate these risks, how to manage them, because what has happened, in essence, we simply... Those who have implemented... all this yew, has just predicted that in this situation the risks... they will not present these risks. And then, how the system... as the market will decide, it will decide, and in this situation we also see what the market is doing - prices are running very upwards. If we are talking about the gas market, then this winter Latvia... Why is the situation different? Because years ago, I was able to convince the Ministry of Economics to change this gas market model for Incukalns, by providing that Incukalns would not simply be a market for speculators, proving that there could be a situation in which these speculators... simply this free market, a liberal market, may not provide the necessary gas volumes for Latvia. And this year, Latvia will not freeze just because this reserve is provided for, these three terawatt hours, which were recorded in the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, prior to the Ministry of Economics, with a frivolous statement: now, if there is such a situation, there will be an emergency situation - gas will only be for protected users, for the rest - these are their problems. In reality, such a gas market model was developed for Latvia. And I simply mention that as an example that there is something to think about, and there is something to fix. And that is what I would call for: to fight at the moment not only with the consequences, but also to think about the reasons why this has happened. Otherwise, we will continue to pay very much, and what has happened is not the case, it is the rule of law: these models, the models created, the rule that will be repeated and become even more serious, because unfortunately, as this model, the market model, works, it does not provide an incentive to enter into investments to create any other generation capacity with which we could address this problem. I call on you to think about this - and especially the National Association, which is currently under the responsibility of the Ministry of Economics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2340-U11	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr Cielen, your comment. ( Pause) We can’t hear you, please. — Pause. ... Mr. Cielen... We can take a technical break for three minutes... Can't we? Can the head of the commission be taken over, please? Mr Bondar, can you take over?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2340-U12	I can take it, it's okay.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2340-U13	Hello! Please take it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2340-U14	In Valmiera, there was an internet. But it's okay. Now everything has already been reported. I just have to say that the draft law was supported by the Commission at first reading. Request also to support the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2340-U15	Thank you, Mr Bondara. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection”! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. I ask the Commission to set a time limit for consideration of the proposals and the time limit for consideration by the Saeima at its meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2340-U16	The budget and financial (tax) commission asks the Saeima to examine the draft law at second reading without re-examination by the committee. The request for second reading and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2340-U17	Thank you. Are Members opposed to the second final reading of the draft law at this sitting? Please log in. There is no objection by Members. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection” in the second, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 75, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - Draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Pollution” (No. 1281/Lp13) and alternative draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pollution” (No. 1282/Lp13), submitted by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. The draft laws will be reported by Member Gatis Zamurs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2340-U18	Hello, head of the Saeima sitting! Hello, colleagues! We have a specific situation, so I will try to explain what has happened. So, first of all, why we created an alternative bill. When examining the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Law Office indicated to us that the time for the entry into force of the law indicated in the draft law would violate the rights of the President of the Republic set forth in Article 69 of the Satversme. Consequently, we corrected the point of entry into force by stating that the law enters into force on the day following that on which it was published. In addition, we have clarified the wording of Section 3.2.2(8) of the Law, by stating in the law that the funds resulting from the auctioning of emission allowances referred to in Section 3.2.2(3) may be used to compensate for the costs of electricity system services. On the other hand, the compensation rate of 50 per cent for each end-user for the period from 1 December of this year to 30 April of the following year is included in point 69 of the transitional provisions. And in view of this, we created an alternative draft commission. If, in turn, we are talking about this in substance, then what is happening at the moment with energy prices in the world is probably not enough to tell me once. And this bill is designed to reduce this price increase for the consumer. The draft law stipulates that revenues from emission allowance auctioning instruments will be used to reduce distribution tariff costs for users by 50 per cent. As I mentioned earlier, activity is timed. It shall run from 1 December of this year to 30 April of the following year and the amount of the aid shall also be limited to EUR 77,89 million. Then successively - first of all, I now ask you on behalf of the Commission to reject the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Pollution” at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2340-U19	Thank you. Please call me! Vote on draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pollution” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 1281/Lp13) at first reading! Please, let's vote! For -11, for -52, for -2 %, for -2 %, for -2 %, for -2 %, for -2 %, for -2 %, for -2 %, for -2 %, for -2 %, for -2 %, for -2 %, for -2 %, for -2 %, for -2 %, for -2 %, for -2 %, for -2 %, for -2 %, for -2 %, for -2 %, for -2 %, for -2 %, for -2 %, for -2 %, for -2 %, for -2 %, for -2 %,
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2340-U20	In turn, about the draft alternative law set up by the Commission... I asked first of all for urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2340-U21	Mr. Zarins, will you talk about urgency? ( Pause) So let us first vote in favour of declaring the draft law urgent. Please call me! We will vote for alternative draft law submitted by the Commission “Amendments to the Law on Pollution” (No. 1282/Lp13) recognition as urgent! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2340-U22	So now I will ask you to support the draft legislation set up by the Commission at first reading. This was unanimously supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2340-U23	Thank you for your report. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2340-U24	Yes, of course, such a proposal is welcome. And we all supported it, because it really is in this situation that we must find help for all those affected by this energy crisis... However, what I'm concerned about is something that I would like to do, however... to which I would like to draw attention, there are a few aspects. Whether this support is correctly established or not, as has been done by the Cabinet of Ministers. We all remember last winter - these stories about tights and folks, and so on. In particular, I have concerns here about the legal correctness of this assistance mechanism. As is said in the annotation of this draft law prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers... on the basis of which we have further modified this proposal... Thus, as a short-term solution in line with the European Commission's Communication, a one-off measure can be implemented by compensating the State for 50 per cent of the cost of electricity system services to all electricity users. I opened up this communication from the European Commission because I am a little... how much I have had to work with these state aid and with this entire state interaction with the free market... The European Commission and the European Union are very strict in the regulation of many things, so that really there is a need for special, let us say, additional regulation so that such things can just be done. It is argued that the European Commission has given such a mandate. I am opening this statement from the European Commission and reading: it is indeed said there that Member States can make specific social payments to the most at risk to help cover energy bills in the short term. The European Commission is therefore saying in this communication that these are the specific social payments aimed at the most vulnerable, not everyone. That's one thing. The other thing. If we are talking about these quota revenues, these emissions trading revenues, then this report also says that in the current situation... what the European Commission says about the plans... the largest revenue from these quotas can be used to finance unforeseen needs for targeted social support. But, as we know, what is being built... This distribution tariff aid was created... and the government refused to support VAT because they wanted to help directly entrepreneurs. We are not talking here about social aid; this is much wider than social aid - what we are now deciding on. And what is my concern? The justification for this support is only tied to this report by the European Commission, which, when we read it, sounds a bit different. That is why I asked the officials at the Commission's sitting whether and how it has been communicated with the European Commission, because in principle it was not a problem to ask the European Commission and get their acceptance: yes, it is really all right, you are doing the right thing. Officials have not done so, nor do they consider it necessary to inform the European Commission. That reference... That's an aspect that confuses me in all this story. Why would it not have been right to do everything properly, if it had been prepared and, in principle, since the autumn? The European Commission has already announced that this option exists. Another thing we're talking about... as a reservation that... All right, we can not regard it as state aid, so indeed we are not debating it - it is aid or not aid - because the definition that is proposed that general measures that equally help all energy consumers do not constitute State aid... But the question is whether this reduction in the distribution tariff is equal for all energy consumers, or whether the European Commission cannot interpret it differently for its part, because the aid will not, by its very nature, be the same for all, and each will receive a different amount of aid depending on the structure of the distribution tariff, it will not be the same for everyone. So here again there are interpretations, which I think would have been right right now... so that there are no misunderstandings so that we can not then be accused that it has been uncoordinated aid, uncoordinated action to do so. In my opinion, this is, to a certain extent, an inaction and a laxity from those who prepared and led this decision. Another opinion, a substance for reflection on this all-- The introduction of this decision shows that we have had some 70 million revenue projects that have been in place so far, and they were possible in the budget, so that we could use them for this purpose. And here's a place to remember... If you remember the debate on the national budget for next year... When we debated... There were a number of really very topical things for which money should be found, first of all it was funding for doctors - funding for doctors who didn't even find the same ones ever promised plus 40 million. And now suddenly we see that it's just like a hop! - One click at... and there are 70 million of them, of which we can quietly give up. It is a substance for reflection on the priorities of this power and at what point it is thinking. Personally, I will support this proposal and I very much hope that the statements made to us at the commission meeting that no risks will arise here will be justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2340-U25	I closed the debate. Mr. Zamura, please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2340-U26	Yes, on behalf of the Commission, I can assure you that this happened. The concerns of Ivars Zarins were heard and the officials represented indicated that they did not really have any reason. I therefore call on the Saeima to vote in favour of the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2340-U27	Thank you. Please call me! Vote on Alternative Draft Law Amendments to the Law on Pollution (No. 1282/Lp13) at first reading! Please, let's vote! For - 75, for - no, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and the date of examination of the draft law at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2340-U28	On behalf of the Commission, I ask the Saeima to examine the draft law at second reading without re-examination by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2340-U29	Thank you. Are Members opposed to examining an alternative draft law today at the second, final, reading sitting of the Saeima? Please apply if someone has objections. There is no objection. Please call me! Vote on Alternative Draft Law Amendments to the Law on Pollution (No. 1282/Lp13) in the second, final, reading! Please, let's vote! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The law is passed. One question to Mr. Zarins. We have received your email at 14.32 on the desire to talk about the procedure. Or still staying in force... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2340-U30	I wanted to inform the head of the meeting and also the administrative section, which ensures that when the previous draft law prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers was announced, it was not possible to apply for a debate. This possibility was not available in the e-Saami. Perhaps there were no switch modes or there is some error in the e-Saami. So that - take this into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2340-U31	Thank you. Let's take it into account. Dear colleagues, As a result, we have reviewed the agenda for the third remote emergency session of the Saeima on 22 December 2021. I would also like to inform you about the question that has been tabled by Members. Members Ivars Zariņš, Arturs Rubiks, Ivans Klementjevs, Vladimirs Nikonovs and Jānis Tutins have submitted a question to Prime Minister Kariņš “On the validity of the forecasts expressed at the government sitting regarding the expected Covid-19 morbidity”. We will refer the matter to the Prime Minister. Dear colleagues, The agenda has been examined, Members' question has been read. Members' registration has also come to an end. I sincerely wish you a peaceful, beautiful, happy Christmas and a lot of health, a lot of luck in the new year! We gather together for the new year at the Saeima sittings! Goodbye.
