ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-08-PT13-2330-U1	Hello, honourable Members! Let's start the Saeima sitting. Today's agenda is the second remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 2 December this year. There is one item on the agenda: the draft law on amendments to the Health Care Financing Act, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Ilmārs Dūritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-08-PT13-2330-U2	Hello, very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Very honourable Members and honourable Members! On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, I would like to report on the draft law on Amendments to the Health Care Financing Act. The purpose of this draft law is: first, to provide that persons are entitled to receive health care services under state compulsory health insurance until 2023, regardless of the contributions they have paid (i.e. according to the current situation; second, to extend the term of the task assigned to the Cabinet until 1 October 2022 (i.e. to submit to the Saeima a draft law on the introduction of a uniform amount of state paid health care services and comprehensive state compulsory health insurance). Please give the Saeima urgency to this bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-08-PT13-2330-U3	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on “Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Health Care”! Please, let's vote! For - 60, for - 1, for - 1. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-08-PT13-2330-U4	Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-08-PT13-2330-U5	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Inguna Reibena.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-08-PT13-2330-U6	Hello, colleagues! It must be acknowledged that today, when we look at these amendments to the Health Finance Act, which is being carried out in the context of compulsory state health insurance, the feeling of... it is no longer a sense of déjà vu, but something that already seems impossible to find in words the appropriate term. I understand that such a feeling is present in a large part of society - and not just on this issue. Faith and hope have been slaughtered in 20 years. The President of the Latvian Medical Society Ilze Aizsilniece talks about protests. Yesterday evening, Līga Kozlovska, President of the Latvian Association of Rural Family Doctors, informed that we are in the last places in Europe in everything. Oncological diseases, cardiovascular diseases... And more and more and more and more... Two years ago, I quoted to you a long line of titles for LETA (from January 2003) on the subject: presents Members with the progress made in introducing a compulsory free health insurance system. The work of many working groups and officials with the third (I stress - with the third!) Once every 15 years, the results were finally achieved on 14 December 2017, when 12. The Saeima decided to start state compulsory health insurance in 2019. But 13. Main health care “specialist” Ilze Viņķelė, his party for Development/About! delegated, achieved that the entry into force of the law, which was scheduled for 17 January 2019, was postponed until 1 July 2019. It was so great that almost the entire Saeima voted on these ideas to the flag and to the repeated ditch. Ilze Viņķele, who immediately became health ministers, promised a new offer for health care in the coming months, and the coalition was going to start a regular discussion about it. However, in May, the government and the Saeima also conceptually supported the postponement of the national health insurance system until March 2021, if I remember correctly. It's now December. Mr Dūriss talks about leaving the current regulation in force until 1 January 2023, and this requires a vote by the Saeima. The bad truth is that since November 2018, when this term began to work and the health sector came to Development/About! there is nothing to do with compulsory state health insurance, contrary to what is promised. What should have entered into force on 1 January 2019 has been destroyed, but nothing has been done. Why, then, should anyone no longer trust you with regard to your community? Annotated by this draft law (concluded): “No conceptual agreement has been reached between the sectors on the form of comprehensive state compulsory health insurance and the procedure for its implementation so far.” Where are these many times promised new offers for national compulsory health insurance? These false promises and this empty speech are tragically affecting the people of Latvia, but it is obviously beneficial for those who do not want the healthcare funding system to be organised, clear and transparent, and therefore personalized. Millions continue to flow through double bottoms in containers or containers. 13. The family, having ruined and failed to do anything, hand over the booth to the next, 14. The Saeima, to call, to carry on and to continue this tragic pointless marathon. I will not vote. I won't. And I have to say once again that it is impossible to find a sign for all this in words. It should be recalled once again, although it is, of course, unnecessary and obscene to recall that in Estonia, a responsible, joint and several state compulsory health insurance system has been in place since 1993, in Lithuania since 1998. I'm sorry! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-08-PT13-2330-U7	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-08-PT13-2330-U8	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I abstained in the previous vote, which was a matter of urgency, and I will also abstain in this vote. I will express my personal opinion on this issue, and to a large extent it coincides with what the previous speaker, Mrs Ribena, mentioned a moment ago - about how we have reached this situation at all. It is not that a full solution has not been proposed. The solution was adopted and its discussions were very difficult not only in the government but also in the Saeima, as well as with the social partners. It was not a simple decision. But new political forces came, new ministers came, new MEPs were determined... And already at that time we expressed our concern... I remember, too, at that time... In the Group of the Greens/Farmers Union, there was also a Member, Mrs Chakša, who is currently in the coalition... If we... it would be right to say... our vision is that now... simply to postpone the entry into force, to postpone for some time, without clearly understanding what will come in place - it is rather wrong and irresponsible. And now this irresponsibleness is getting more and more... extended. Colleagues! The fact that we are doing will not make the discussions easier. The debate will still be difficult, unpopular, and still will have to make decisions that are not very pleasant. Perhaps there will be a positive society, but there will be just as much of it, with less positive emotions. The fact that we do not do this does not make our situation simpler, we only make it more difficult. And now, these muggers... And Development/About! that came with this flag that all that the previous government did was bad and that, uh, we will now do everything for a new... Today we see that there is no new offer. We read the annotation of the same draft law... Ministry of Finance, Prime Minister's Office, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Welfare... with different views, the settings are... Here it is quite broadly described how complex its negotiations are already at the moment, while we do not yet see what is from non-governmental organisations here, what their point of view is. It's just... There is no common understanding between ministries as to how this should be addressed. Then, when the public is still on this issue, this question will become... The model for financing health care will be even more difficult to implement. That is the situation in which we have reached this point today. Colleagues! I think at this point... This Decision has certain consequences. The consequences are that we cannot deliver the promise of their pay to medical professionals working in our country. Medical organizations that a little... at least I think it's a little strange that we've raised our voices right now and are sending letters to officials to say that salaries should be... Ten percent... Ten per cent increase, but a month ago it was... A little bit like he's obeyed. I don't know how right it was. In my opinion, it would have been more valuable at the time of drawing up the budget, but there is now a situation where these resources are not available. And that's in the situation... on these resources... should be spoken of by this law... We are looking at how long this problem can be postponed. Meanwhile, in our neighbourhood, solutions are inventive, there's a vision of how to finance the health system, and there's funding for a third and... This funding for the healthcare system is half that available in our country. Unfortunately, we have political parties who like to speak sadly more about health care, but not to do real things. It shows that they are not operational, and this bill is absolutely justified evidence for this. We can talk about the need for doctors, but we cannot really make a real offer. We can say that what others have done is bad, but come with your own vision, no matter how popular or unpopular it is... Unfortunately, this parliamentary term cannot do so, and this draft law already says that this parliamentary term will not do so. I think it is a fear of the elections, it is a fear of the anger of the voters, because it is hard for me to imagine what you will bring different things than what Mr. Kučinski, together with Mrs. Čakša, and what a large part of this government... The Members were then supported. This time they agreed to Development/About! the call to go a different way, but this “other way”, as we see, really... has been called out; it is also for Development/About! There's really no one to offer. At the moment, the promoters of the draft law offer us a draft law, the annotation of which describes all that... opposes the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Welfare and other ministries, but has not said a word about what the offer will actually be, how it will look. And also, in my opinion, the rapporteur for the bill did not really mark that beautiful future - how it will all look, how much of the budget we will get from it, what we will be able to do about it. We have a de facto situation today that the promises made to doctors have not been fulfilled. Medical, healthcare funding is significantly lower than in neighbouring countries. And this government's "success stories" - a deferred system of healthcare financing... As a result, very many resources for healthcare are simply not available. Canceled... 1 per cent... social contribution... The social tax that was introduced at the time... directly to the health care system... This is less than EUR 100 million, which this government has taken off the healthcare system with great discomfort. How wise and wise it is - talk to medical experts. They will tell you how difficult today is, how difficult the next year will be. I think this budget, which we adopted a couple of weeks ago, which this government... this Saeima has confirmed - this is a huge brother, and it is the area of health that will be one of the first where... this budget will have to be amended and make major changes; without this, we will simply not be able to do it, because the things we talked about in the course of the budget review - they are still standing... on the table. And the situation with regard to the remuneration of medical staff will become more and more complicated, because in the next budget, too, these benefits for the treatment of co-morbids... There too, I think, this issue will create enormous difficulties in the remuneration system for medical staff; when these bonuses end, this pressure on pay will only increase. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I cannot support this draft law on the basis of the reasoning I mentioned; I also call on you not to do so, thus demonstrating in a way a protest against the Saeima and the Government... one specific party association for Development/About! they have not done the very important task they have in this parliamentary term... they undertook to do so at the beginning of the period. And I think that this should be one of the priority objectives. Colleagues! Now, with this vote, I have the opportunity to postpone this issue for some time, essentially saying that it will be done by the next Saeima - it is a total failure and I cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-08-PT13-2330-U9	The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-08-PT13-2330-U10	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! The previous speakers have already been very well reasoned... He really touched on the basic question... the substance. And I want to draw attention to the fact that in order to make changes to any system, whether it's a healthcare system... go ahead on energy issues, on various other issues, the current changes in tax policy to follow... Courageous decisions are needed. We are now being proposed to postpone the deadline. In my opinion, this is already a non-professional activity of the public administration (and perhaps also of the State Chancellery), with which we are constantly exaggerating something forward. Political decisions must be made boldly... there are, therefore, room for discussion within the Commission. At the Cabinet now... The re-started coalition is smaller, thus very friendly and united, bold. Please see, there's a chance to prove these claims, not just loudly speaking, but... come not with the draft law by which we extend the deadline, but come with the content. And when we get to content, then we can both debate, make proposals and support or not - depending on the quality of the draft law. At the moment, this is another proof that the issues that need to be addressed, which really need to be dealt with responsibly and with sufficient courage, are being carried out. The tax reform that we used to be... We wanted to discuss and adopt in 2021 and 2022, thus allowing entrepreneurs to do business in a predictable environment. This is another example of what is being done again. So how much can we postpone something?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Colleagues! I call on this to stop, not to support, to take courageous decisions and, in any case, to discuss them in the Saeima - see the parliamentary commissions and, as appropriate, in the readings of the Saeima sittings. I call for no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-08-PT13-2330-U11	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-08-PT13-2330-U12	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I believe that this draft law as such should be supported. Of course, the Saeima can make any decisions, but it must be understood that the capacity of public administration is still limited... and our public administration is very limited. I think it's absolutely understandable that, in a situation where it's going on in the fight against a community pandemic, it's going on... How many... Almost two years will soon be in March... I think it is absolutely understandable that the Ministry of Health has not paid so much attention to this rather simple task, which is described in this draft law. And that is why, as I said, this draft law is to be supported. But I can't miss a chance... not even an opportunity, but... I think things like that should be pointed out. That is, it must be pointed out here by some of our colleagues... on what I would at best call inconsistency, in worst case it looks like a rather big double. Given that many of our colleagues in this, 13th Saeima are those who are, so to speak, for the first time in politics, I think it is necessary to remind us of a little about what this law, the Health Financing Act, is at all about. Previous Saeima... And even before... There were quite a lot of debates and discussions about the financing of health care, namely whether healthcare in the country should be offered under the same conditions to all people, all Latvian citizens, without exception, regardless of whether they are working or not and how much social security contributions they pay, or whether they should be motivated to work and pay taxes. And at that time, the consensus won that those people who pay social security contributions should provide the state with a greater or, to say, a better health care basket. This is the approach of this two baskets. Then some of our colleagues today have campaigned a lot politically, with slogans, that here's healthcare... I'd even like to quote... campaigned that we would stop the Health Care Financing Act of that time and that everyone - everyone! - The people of Latvia must be... yes, that the right to receive healthcare in good time is one of human rights and that it must be received by all Latvian citizens. And so, my fellow Members, I would like to remind you of last week's vote on one other initiative - an initiative to make unvaccinated people pay their own medical costs - which was voted on by more than 40... almost 50 of our colleagues voted in favour of giving further progress to the initiative so that unvaccinated people themselves bear their own medical costs. And here I have a question for those colleagues... not all of them almost 50 people, but those who are so strongly in favour of equal access to healthcare, those who are so strongly against the principle of the two baskets. What did you think... You voted a week ago? Don't you see any similarities here? Have you not voted to make part of the Latvian population who chose not to receive vaccination... so they're not just... they will not receive any minimum basket, but even the minimum basket will not be paid for their own medical expenses. How does it go with the fact that you are so much opposed to the principle of two baskets? There is no consistency at all. Think of what you have done. Who are the patients in the community? Of them, at least 70 percent... 70-80 percent of these people are actually pensioners. What are the costs of treating the community? Its treatment costs could be up to... an average of four thousand euros. So you have voted for those people who have not vaccinated (pensioners, of whom 70 percent... well, about 70-80 percent are pensioners), then would pay up to four thousand euros for their treatment. Well, I'm sorry, what's the money? Do you think they'll pay it? You know what an average pension is in the country? It's about 400 euros per month. Do you know what the minimum cart is? How much does it cost for a person to survive at all? More recently, the Central Statistical Office has calculated this. This cart is about... the same EUR 400. Thus, the average pension in the country is higher than the minimum subsistence cart. This means that almost half of all pensioners receive a pension that is smaller than the minimum basket. And you voted that they still bear their own medical costs, which could amount to up to four thousand euros. This, as I said, colleagues, is as a minimum inconsistency, but rather it looks like a very big double. I ask you to think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-08-PT13-2330-U13	Thank you. So I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-08-PT13-2330-U14	Thank you to the honourable colleagues who took part in the debate. I would just like to reflect, on behalf of the Commission, perhaps on the sound and... which was also the subject of a Commission debate that the Ministry of Health certainly also came to the government with an offer on how to address this issue further. But taking into account the situation of the community and the complex situation in the healthcare system as a whole... and in general... and given that this option would also require tax changes, and without delay, so that we would actually leave certain small but still very important groups of citizens without healthcare, the Commission decided to give this opportunity and this task to be extended. I would therefore like to call once again on behalf of the Commission to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-08-PT13-2330-U15	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Health Care"! Please, let's vote! For - 68, for - 4, for - 4. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-08-PT13-2330-U16	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to ask the Saeima to support this draft law at second reading, without re-reading by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-08-PT13-2330-U17	Please enable the procedure section. Are Members opposed to the examination of the draft law without re-examination by the committee responsible? Mr. Valains, do you have any objections?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-08-PT13-2330-U18	Yeah, I have reservations. I would like a one-hour deadline for the proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-08-PT13-2330-U19	Thank you. So there are objections. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting. The name of the rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-08-PT13-2330-U20	The Commission decided that the deadline for the submission of proposals would be one hour, thus similar to that of Mr Valaiņa's proposal. And consideration - the Saeima on December 8th.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-08-PT13-2330-U21	Okay. So the deadline for submitting proposals is one hour. Colleagues, maybe it is useful to look at the sitting on 9 December? It is still up to the Commission to examine the proposals. Colleagues, indeed, have to hold a commission meeting, I call for this matter to be considered.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-08-PT13-2330-U22	I am sorry, I am sorry, I am wrong to report - at the sitting of 9 December, so tomorrow, Thursday.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-08-PT13-2330-U23	Thank you. So the deadline for the proposals - today, 8 December this year, by 4 p.m. - consideration at the Saeima sitting - 9 December this year. Thank you. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting has been examined. Registration of Members. Registration of Members is requested... and has taken place. The agenda of the sitting was examined. We will continue at 15.15 a.m. I'm closing this sitting. We continue working at 15.15 a.m.
