ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! Let's start the meeting of the Saeima on 29 April this year. Please enable a section on the procedure. Dear colleagues, Changes to the agenda of the adopted sitting have been tabled. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption asks for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to exclude from it paragraph 8 of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on the Management of communicable Diseases” (No. 1059/Lp13). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? Members have not applied. There is therefore no objection. The draft law is excluded from the agenda. Let us start by looking at the agenda. On the agenda - reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Bureau of the Saeima proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Disease Management Act” submitted by Member Sprūde, Stepanenko, Svekova, Gobzema and Krauzze (No. 1052/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the Commission responsible. ‘ Karina Sprūde, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U2	Good morning, colleagues! During the Covid-19 spread there was a move to remote work – the usual work was replaced by local government customer service centres, social services and other structures of importance to people. This has prevented citizens from applying for material support granted by municipalities on the basis of binding rules issued by municipalities, such as material support in the event of the birth of a child, the presentation of benefits for documents, funeral benefits, benefits such as compensation for medical prescriptions, hospital treatment, dental prosthetic treatment, replacement, school supplies and clothing allowances and many, very many other, people's benefits... To whom people have the opportunity to apply. By personally passing through all the stages of granting the benefit in connection with municipal support for the birth of a child, I have obtained information that municipalities do not intend to extend the period for receiving municipal support, but that the exceptional nature of the situation in the country and in the world should be taken into account, subject to the principles of good administration and fairness. Therefore, the legislator should provide for exceptions to the time limit for the granting of municipal aid. There are enough people who are unable or unable to provide the necessary documents to the municipality within the prescribed time limits due to measures to limit the spread of Covid-19 infection, for example due to lack of technical provision; lack of skills in the use of electronic means; lack of information on options to submit documents; concern about difficulties to distance and possible infection with Covid-19. It is not acceptable for these people to be granted a benefit simply because of a delay in being afraid of violating the rules of distance or because of technical possibilities or lack of skills. I therefore ask you, colleagues, to take into account the fact that this draft law has no fiscal impact. There is no impact on the state budget and local government budget, as local authorities have already provided for funds to be paid in their budgets, while on the basis of the possibility not to pay the aid due to a delay, these municipalities have experienced savings. I call and ask for support for the referral of the draft law to the Commission. I will be happy to tell you more about my experience, the information obtained and the progress of my application. Colleagues, I ask you to support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U3	Thank you. Members want a vote. Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” (No. 1052/Lp13) transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! On - 32, against - 47, refraining from - 4. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Identification of Natural Persons” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Commission. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, as well as the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Customs Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Change of Name, Surname and Ethnicity” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes the Cabinet of Ministers... So the next draft law was excluded from the agenda. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Festivals, Remembrances and Marked Days” presented by the Member of the Parliament” by Mr Neminina, Mr Juša, Mr Golubeva, Mr Možvillo, Mr Asseranden and Mr Janson (No. 1060/Lp13) to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible. Members have not applied for a 'yes' or 'no' but have been asked for a vote. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the law “On holidays, memories and famous days”” (No. 1060/Lp13) transfer to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 65, it's not 19, it's not. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Holidays, Remembrances and Marked Days” presented by the Member Neminija, Juša, Golubeva, Možvillo and Eglīsis (No. 1061/Lp13) transferred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Artuss Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U4	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Good morning, Members! Thank you for supporting the previous draft law for further progress. It's about this bill. I would ask, dear colleagues, to support the way forward and then adopt it. On 21 November 2013, the biggest tragedy occurred in the history of the restored Latvia - 54 dead. The draft law provides that the calendar 21 November will be recorded as the day of the memory of the tragedy of 21 November 2013. This tragedy was not classed by membership of a political party, by nationality, by gender or by political or other opinion - it simply took and took the lives of 54 people. Dear colleagues, I believe that this is not a position and is not also a question of opposition, this is a matter for the whole of Latvian society, and I would ask you to support this draft law for further progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U5	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members, but Artuss Kaiminis has requested a vote. Is that a mistake? Mr. Neighbours, are you demanding a vote?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U6	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U7	Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendment to the law “On holidays, memories and famous days”” (No. 1061/Lp13) transfer to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, determining that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! It's not about 80, it's against 1, it's not. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda - referral of draft laws to commissions and first reading. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions presented by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission be referred to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission and will be discussed at first reading. So on the agenda - draft law on “Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions”. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Financial Taxation, Member Iveta Benhena‐Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U8	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima and colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has developed a legislative package consisting of two draft laws. We are currently looking at the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions. The specific draft law is designed to ensure that the Consumer Protection Centre is entitled to receive sensitive information held by credit institutions and payment service providers. This information is necessary to ensure... to assess the circumstances of the commission of infringements, i.e. the truthfulness of the information alleged by the commercial practice provider, the financial schemes used in committing the infringement, the material consequences of the infringement, the losses incurred. This would help to make it quicker and easier to ensure that unfair practices are eliminated. So please... I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U9	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U10	May 5, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U11	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 5 May this year. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Account Register Act’. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on the “Amendments to the Account Register Act” be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission and we begin to examine it at first reading. On behalf of the commission responsible, Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U12	Dear President, colleagues. This is the second draft of the above-mentioned legislative package. It provides that the Consumer Centre will be entitled to receive information from the Account Register. I therefore call for support to be given to this draft law as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U13	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Account Register Law” at first reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U14	May 5, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U15	So the deadline for proposals is 5 May this year. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U16	The third reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media” (No. 900/Lp13). One proposal was received, the same is the Commission's proposal, and it was supported by the Commission: eight votes in favour, two votes against. This proposal provides that instead of 10 years... We have changed the previous - second - reading deadline in the Commission as a result of a compromise: eight years instead of 10 years. So broadcasting permission for FM radio... the frequency band is allocated for a period of eight years. Please support this Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U17	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U18	Thank you. That's all. Therefore, on behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, please support the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U19	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media, third, final, final reading! Please, let's vote! For - 81, for - no, for - 2. The law is passed. Draft Law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on the Management of communicable Diseases” (No. 1051/Lp13), second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U20	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! In the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, during the last days, we have examined the amendments - the current early Christmas amendments - to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection. And I would like to say that, as a result of the passionate discussions, 23 proposals came to our attention, which we will now be considering. 1. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. It is about the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Saeima, it has already been seen and has not been supported. And it is not supported again by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U21	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U22	Good morning, dear colleagues! It is nothing that this proposal has not already been supported. The situation is changing, and the Members of the Saeima are starting to open their eyes a little bit. What is now formed in this law, if we are talking about the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection, is like pseudo... an emergency situation in which the Saeima, as such a former hostage, still suffers from Stockholm syndrome. Because the Saeima, remember, twice in a row... Well, almost in a row... had given the government these special powers: to decide, in an emergency, to limit all the rights of society at its discretion, based on the instructions of the epidemiologists and all the others. However, this situation is still, in fact, continuing. And it's very hard that... It is very difficult to see that many Members still do not understand, recognise and do not want to see the truth in their eyes. We have seen this in the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Also yesterday. The nature is that the Saeima, which has powers... which society has the power to decide - four years of calmly deciding! - for matters of public interest, it has now been established that it is not sufficiently competent, it is not responsible enough to continue to decide on these important issues and has transferred a very wide range of powers to the Cabinet of Ministers. Moreover, contrary to what usually happens when the Saeima delegates some tasks to the Cabinet of Ministers (the Saeima is the supervising institution and can indicate to the Cabinet certain actions and the way in which they are to be performed!) - There are currently quite strange things in this law. The Saeima asks the Cabinet of Ministers - without receiving any action, still asks! - then try by law to eliminate in some way the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers that interfere with living so many people and still do not achieve results. What is written in this law - so the Saeima can recommend that the Cabinet review these regulations that restrict human rights and freedoms. Only recommended and only asked. We are probably a little confused with you, my fellow Members, that the Saeima is the legislator and the Cabinet of Ministers is executive. If the emergency situation has now been lifted, then things should be placed in the order in which they were in the past. If that is not the case, why have you put an end to this emergency? I don't know what you're trying to deceive. What we have seen in this commission today is the misunderstanding of Member Krišjānis Feldman that it is really from the Legal Bureau that there are quite valid arguments that the Saeima cannot do so - to take and repeal the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. The Saeima can only ask the Cabinet of Ministers to do so if we talk about specific restrictions - moto driving, terraces, trade. The Saeima, as it turns out, cannot do so at all: take and stop with one day's decision. And what do we see? The Saeima has decided several times - both in its draft decisions, which were supported, as well as in its proposals for this law and another law, which is the law of overcoming the consequences, but nevertheless, the Cabinet continues to ignore what the Saeima is asking for - it continues to do on its own. Perhaps Krišjānis Feldman's eyes will open, and maybe Krišjānis Feldman will realize that such order should not continue. Perhaps other colleagues from the coalition will understand that what they are doing at the moment - they continue the Saeima's irresponsibility, they continue to grant the Cabinet a wide range of powers, which the Saeima itself can no longer revoke. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U23	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U24	No, thank you, on behalf of the Commission, nothing can be added. The proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U25	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 30, for - 54, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U26	2. - the proposal by Member Julia Stepanenko, very similar in content. This is also not supported by the Commission. I'll just add that the emergency order... The Saeima has the right to put its ideas, how and what to review before the Cabinet. So this issue has been exhausted. Thus, as I mentioned earlier in the Commission, the proposals of Member Jūlija Stepanenko related to these powers of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Saeima were not supported; there will be others.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U27	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U28	Colleagues! Emergency Order... Perhaps the Saeima has such a right - to offer the Cabinet of Ministers something different to decide... and maybe not just an emergency order... because there seems to be no more emergency situations at the moment, but we understand it as if... pseudo... continues. Pseudo... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. But... At the moment, there is a normal situation of substance, if we look at the legislative procedure, but the Saeima still recommends that the Cabinet review and ask to review restrictions. And every time they are asked to review the restrictions, the Cabinet invites one of the epidemiologists, shows the charts again, scares people and says that again people are guilty. But! The problem is that at all available resources, at all possibilities, the Cabinet of Ministers cannot, can not point to specific reasons... Today, for example, we also heard at the commission meeting that the Cabinet of Ministers is still divining into coffee thicks, pointing out that this increase of yesterday... Increase in positive tests... is related, possibly, to the opening of some shops and possibly to the celebration of Easter. But that's what nobody can say anymore, because there's no research. Only cats and cucumbers had to be studied, but research, which would be directly, precisely, with the effects of these restrictions, still does not exist, and we hear only that the only one who has spent money - these ads on wanting and vaccinating the summer (with unsuccessful translations!) . Therefore, colleagues, we see that the Cabinet of Ministers is doing its duties very badly. The Cabinet is not interested in how we should be able to survive in these circumstances. The Cabinet of Ministers has quite different objectives apparently. And there is already a very interesting situation, because several members of the Saeima feel that they are approaching both the elections to the municipality and the elections to the Saeima. We would very much like to look forward to the moment when - like Krišjānis Feldman, who has walked through waxing salons, tattooing salons, as he told us today in the Commission, and understanding all the problem he is facing, as he said - those people are landing on the ground... Yes, landing on the ground - that is what he called the rest of the Members. So Krišjānis Feldman has understood the problems of some areas and even makes a number of good proposals which, unfortunately, were not supported by the Commission. However, we very much hope that perhaps, just like Krišjānis Feldman, the other Members will finally land and realise that it cannot continue and that the Cabinet is currently abuse its powers. I therefore call on you once again to reflect on and support the fact that the Saeima still decides on these restrictions itself. If you really need these restrictions so much, call on Mr Perevoščikov to show you their charts every week, decide how to limit or limit it, but take responsibility, colleagues! You have been elected by the public to decide on the future of society, not to put those responsibilities down on someone else who will then simply disappear and not answer for anything. Therefore, colleagues, I call once again on you to support these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U29	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U30	On behalf of the Commission, I would just add that in the past I was obviously wrong with this expression - that the emergency order... In fact, there is an opportunity for any parliamentary commission to convene a sitting if it considers any of the restrictions imposed by the Cabinet of Ministers to be transparent, and if it has its own vision and solution, how should these orders be corrected (or the Cabinet of Ministers regulations - in this case)... It is provided for in the ‘External and Exceptional Situation’ Act. In this case, I apologise for my previous mistake. On behalf of the Commission, I would also like to say that this proposal from Member Stepanenko was not supported and I call for it not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U31	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 30, for - 55, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U32	3. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. This proposal has also been looked at in the past and has not been supported in the past, and this time, too, was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U33	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U34	Colleagues, I'll continue to wake you up. Autocracy is currently taking place in the European Union family of countries. Unfortunately, Latvia and our politicians have so far been... has shown a reprehensible attitude. Would we in Latvia be satisfied that, in future, unlimited power would belong to the government by excluding the power of parliaments as a people-elected legislator? Would we not, if this were to happen, seek help from the international community and wait for certain measures from the European Union? About here is the answer... Are we really not affected and worried about what is happening in Hungary? It on 16 April 2020, already more than a year ago... for Hungary, a very loud statement was made on Development/About! Member Vita Anda Steel. Then when the Saeima in a few months... Then, when the Cabinet of Ministers of the Saeima had proposed such a draft law that we are currently talking about, with such terms and conditions, with special powers for the Cabinet of Ministers, to be put to the vote, Vita Anda Steela was silent. At the time of the vote, Vita Anda Steela voted in favour. So Vita Anda Steel voted in favour of unlimited power belonging to the government, excluding further parliamentary power as a nation-elected legislator. This is precisely the case with the entry into force of this law and with the provisions of Section 4 of this Law. And exactly what we're trying to do right now... Try to do it several times, as Mr. Rancāns rightly pointed out - to return democracy to Latvia, to return to Parliament the rights that Parliament has probably given to the Cabinet of Ministers because of its negligence, and, of course, to return consistency to the head of the same Saeima Member Vita Anda Steel and to the heads of her colleagues, because we understand that probably, when deciding on these restrictions, deciding on these powers to the Cabinet of Ministers, Vita Anda Steel may have trusted that the Cabinet will really listen to the recommendations of the Saeima and will be completely different from what it is today... as we see it. If you have talked to the public, you have met people who have been affected by these restrictions and who are still fighting for their right to work, you may have finally understood that the situation that has been condemned so hard by Vita Anda Steela, speaking about a very different country - Hungary - has now been completely repeated in Latvia. But it is strange that Vita Anda Steela does not ask for help from the European institutions, does not try to point out illegal activities that are taking place here, but framed... shall remain silent and shall continue to vote in favour of granting this right to the Cabinet of Ministers. If it's not a duality, then it's probably something quite different. It should be researched by scientists, it should perhaps be researched by some experts, I don't know. But what we're seeing right now is probably the sight of a beam in our eyes. How far we have led to the situation now, you can probably be told by those people who are sitting without a job at the moment and who are now being told that benefits and assistance will be reduced. Dear colleagues, Once again, I call on you to take responsibility and to be consistent and to support that the Saeima should not surrender this mandate to the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U35	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U36	On behalf of the Commission, nothing will be added to this proposal. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U37	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 32, it's against - 51, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U38	4. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Mr Miezaiņš. This is about collecting and submitting data from different national databases to the Disease Prevention and Control Centre... I mean, in the right way... Yeah, and I'm sick... as well as the Coordination Centre for Transparency, for specific analyses related to the epidemiological situation. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U39	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U40	5. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns on the rights of the Solvency Control Service, depending on the... establish different conditions for the work of insolvency administrators in epidemiological situations. The Commission (A Sound Break) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U41	Supported by the Commission. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U42	6. - J. Bordan, Minister of Justice, proposal on the administration of legal aid in addition to the... the provision of legal assistance provided by the State. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U43	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U44	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is a editorial proposal for the budget programme... on the addition of numbers... The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U45	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U46	8 / 8 - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. This is about the rights of the Director-General of the State Revenue Service, which relate to the employment of personnel... to the right of employment... of which... staff for more than 24 hours... and other rights. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U47	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U48	9. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Also various editorial corrections on the conditions of temporary residence permits... by correcting the figures by extending the time limits. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U49	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U50	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, which provides that ministers of relevant sectors are to decide on the conduct of training in institutions of the The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U51	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U52	So... Proposal No 12 is also... That's what I'm saying, 11. ... It was 10. - the previous... 11. - the proposal of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption on Local Government and Education... This applies to the various conditions of organisation of training. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U53	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U54	12. - the proposal by Members Gats Eglišs and Krišjānis Feldman on personal income tax for non-taxable income of the year... conditions... Unfortunately, the Commission is not in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U55	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U56	Hello! Yes, this proposal may be rather specific. And there's, as they say, a dispute about whether its shape is the right one, but... So the proposal addresses the issue that... In Latvia, since 2014 there has been regulation, which provides: if a dwelling is disposed of... Either, so-called primary housing or... in the law another term has been used... and invests these funds over the course of the year in the acquisition of another housing, without being subject to income and capital gains tax. And, as we know, investment in another house can be both by buying and building another property. Given that due to various restrictions, natural persons were objectively denied access to the building materials shops for a long period of time, and there were also various other obstacles to the construction, entry into service or repair of buildings, reconstruction, it would be only fair if people who started disposal transactions... completing it during the pandemic... if they would have had an appropriate period of at least one year, the period provided for... personal income tax for this period, when its money has to be invested further... so you can either buy... In this case, of course, the focus is on reconstruction and construction, because building materials, as we know, could be bought in Latvia, all registering and pretending to be legal persons. However, there are people who have been and are under the rule of law and have not used this law to circumvent them, so by showing respect for them, this proposal has been made. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U57	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U58	Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U59	Has the Commission supported this proposal?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U60	The Commission has not supported this proposal, as I said before.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U61	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - the proposal tabled by Members Eglišs and Feldman! Please, let's vote! For - 29, for - 41, for - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U62	13. - the proposal by Member Julia Stepanenko to exclude Chapter VII of the law, which deals with administrative liability for infringement of the restrictions imposed. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U63	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U64	Dear colleagues, I will read to you from the parliamentary verbatim report a speech that would be very, very important in this regard - a speech that the Member Anda Čakša said on 29 October 2020 in the debate on the introduction of penalties for failing to carry masks. ( I remind you that I am calling for this chapter to be ruled out - a chapter on penalties, which also includes the penalty for not carrying masks!) That is, on October 29, Anda Čakša said: “A number of colleagues talked about masks being misused. It's true, we can also use a toothbrush for wrong purposes, we can also use a spoon without washing, but it's already an individual responsibility for how we use hygiene things, each individual. In this case, when it comes to the use of masks, we are talking about the health of the common public and how we protect each other. I therefore ask for support and call on everyone to really understand that this administrative penalty is also about... individuals who do not comply with the objectives of improving public health." Anda Chakša, a Member of the Council, spoke on 29 October. Anda Chakša, a Member, tries to hide the fact that she herself has violated the principles that were so keenly committed on 29 October. I mean, last month... in one of the sittings of the Saeima, as it is also fixed for video as well as audio... Member Anda Chakša was heard by her colleague when she joined the Saeima sitting... to a colleague present - Arvila Asheradena or... the votes of the second colleague, Mr Latkovska. It is clear that both of these Members were in the same room and... In fact, we cannot see whether that other Member had a face mask on his face or not, but it is clear that Anda Čakša has violated the rules that she has supported and has, in fact, deserved an administrative penalty. We would be very happy if Anda Chaksh admitted that she felt that these masks did not prevent infection. We would be very happy if Anda Chaksh came up and also... I would like to say to you that she, too, really understands from all my heart that this whole mask thing, all this mask imposed on both children and adults, has gone too far. Her disobedience to this mask regime in a particular sitting of the Saeima is evidence that Anda Čakša has changed her opinion. And just as it is likely that very many of you, honourable members of the coalition, who will be caught early or late in the same way without wearing masks, will be caught at a private party or in violation of other rules that you have voted for, but not for yourself, for others. For those people who, as Mr Feldman said, are there on earth. But, colleagues, we can also do different things: we can already people... simply recommend that people... As was the case in the old, good times, when all these penalties and all the police control in beauty salons did not begin yet, where the man who comes to the hairdresser feels like a criminal. We can do this: we can treat people, Latvian citizens, taxpayers at the end of the day, and make recommendations, not penalties, but recommendations, and see how people will follow them, because at the moment people do not respect you and do not respect the rules that you have made. I call for the repeal of this chapter. There is no point in this section. It only increases the lack of trust in you, including Anda Chakša and other colleagues who violate their own established and supported rules. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U65	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U66	There is nothing to add on behalf of the Commission; the proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U67	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 26, for - 54, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U68	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is about providing legal aid from the Ministry of Justice... Legal aid is paid in accordance with the Law on the State Budget 2021, with a maximum of 15 thousand euros for this purpose. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U69	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U70	Next - 15. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. The Prime Minister instructs the Minister responsible to implement the elimination of the vaccination project office by 1 June of this year. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U71	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U72	16. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. On the task of the Prime Minister to immediately end the issue of a vaccination newspaper. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U73	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U74	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your support for the abolition of the vaccination project office. I hope that at the moment there will be no attempt to hide it and reorganize it for the second time or in other ways to fool the Saeima and the public. But if we are talking about the vaccination newspaper, then we have discovered that the creation of this newspaper is very, very mysterious in nature. First of all, let us start by saying that by mid-April, Mr Pavļuta thought that the vaccination project newspaper could be financed through a two-year competition. That is how he answered us Members by answering Members' questions. Then, suddenly, Mr Pavļuta thought about and remembered that this competition had already ended, so it will be necessary to look for how to issue this vaccination newspaper for someone else's means. One of the speakers at the vaccination project office, Mrs Stures, informed us that the idea of putting the vaccination newspaper into the December last year's competition, which is, of course, a small cost of the vaccination newspaper, is already under consideration. We see that when examining the costs of the vaccination newspaper - printing, layout and distribution costs... The more we study these costs, the more they grow. It is also a very, very strange phenomenon, as I said, everything is so mystical around this vaccination newspaper. If one month ago the cost of vaccination was around 13 cents per newspaper and it was planned to issue this newspaper to 800 thousand households, the number of addresses has now increased, because it appears that there are many more addresses in Latvia - more than a million addresses - and the cost of vaccination newspapers per copy is already 27 cents. Another very strange and mystical phenomenon is that vaccination newspapers... Well, the planned publisher... Mr Pavļuta has also forgotten his own vote in the Saeima on 7 May last year, voting in favour of not distributing such vaccination newspapers in Russian, including, therefore, vaccination newspapers, any material. It voted a coalition, it voted by all the people who thought they had done a good job now. But either it's some disgust, or just a lack of awareness, but now, when we find out at last, after several months, the fact that it will not be possible to issue a vaccination newspaper in Russian, we see that the aim of the vaccination newspaper is to reach the population, to whom you don't pass your miraculous information on all the good works that your vaccine does and that are done by your health minister and all the institutions under your control... You will not be able to reach the Russian-speaking population, because it will not just come to them. You have prohibited yourself from doing this. Consequently, the issue of the usefulness of the vaccination newspaper is very, very local. We see that you will not be able to change the law, it is not allowed by your coalition partners, they stand very strongly against the amendments to this law, so we see that if you cannot change the law, then there is absolutely no point in the vaccination newspaper. That is why we call on you simply to end with the failing project of issuing a vaccination newspaper. We do not want costs to rise even further. Please stop and stop, stop wasteing taxpayers' money! We have enough “I want summer!” and all the other pointless taxes... projects to waste taxpayers' money. Please stop here or here! Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, we are asking you very much to support the abolition of this vaccination newspaper project. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U75	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U76	For the Commission There was a debate about this in the Commission and, of course, as a result of the discussion, we made it clear that we needed to inform the public about vaccination issues. Vaccination is a way out of the communion crisis, one of these strategic things. And there's no other means here... Of course it is appropriate, but the package with the vaccination newspaper is intended to raise public awareness, and this is urgently needed. On issues relating to the suspicion of wasteful squandering, excessive costs and so on - on those issues, of course, we called on the State Audit Office to follow this up... or the regulation of the Alert Notice Act to be used by relevant persons involved in this project. It can be controlled, but it would be ultimately unacceptable to eliminate the newspaper itself, which should be one of the means of reaching the audience and raising awareness about vaccination issues. This proposal was rejected by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U77	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 22, for - 52, for - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U78	17. - also the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. On development of guidelines of the Cabinet of Ministers for various hygienic masks... compliance with the manufacturer’s specifications and similar cases. The proposal is not supported by the Commission. It was examined a month ago. In essence, a very similar proposal, which received all the clarifications from the institutions, has not been supported. I call on you not to support this either.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U79	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U80	Dear colleagues, That is not the case, because previous proposals in another law were about setting up a monitoring centre. This proposal is different. It is a pity that Mr Ranzan was not allowed to justify his proposal in the Commission. I'll do that at the Saeima sitting. This proposal is linked to the fact that oral and nasal masks, or the facial masks of hygienic fabric, are distributed in educational institutions. And we are witnesses of the fact that not only the state purchased facial masks, which are of poor quality, - therefore SIA “SOUTIONS” masks, which are already several parents (not even several - several dozens and hundreds of parents!) has been shown to be of low quality when used only a few times and by washing, say, according to the instructions in the package leaflet... Also “Eka Print” masks, which have dubious means of origin... which have been treated with antimicrobials. In parallel with these masks, there are other masks that are distributed to municipal educational institutions as donations. And none of these masks can be viewed from the point of view of parents... Consumer protection centre, because the parent does not have a transaction check. So there's a mask in your child's hands, maybe there's a package leaflet here because they're in individual packages, but there's no check. As a result, it will be very difficult for a consumer to regard such a parent or child as such, so the Consumer Centre needs special powers and task in order to comply with these masks... compliance of the assessment with the instructions for use and the specification. Why is this important? Because our children's hands and even more so, children's faces must not get into such articles, which, by their very nature, are not seriously assessed from the point of view of consumer safety, but even more so from the point of view of child safety. These products have not undergone any checks. If we are talking about the same toys, about pencils, about flomasters - they all still have some assessment, whether they can be given to children or not. We know very often there are also different items, toys recalls that these items are not safe for children due to different circumstances. In this case, if we are talking about oral and nasal covers, which are supposedly compulsory for children to be used in educational institutions, there is nothing - nothing! - special monitoring, no systems. And it just seems that there really is a confidence here that maybe we'll pull through. But that is not the case, and children need to care for their health, they need to worry about their health, and they need to ensure that no harm is caused to their health. We need to make sure that the composition of these masks, say, the composition of the substances with which the masks have been treated, is absolutely safe for both children and adults. There is no such confirmation at this stage. That's why we... a mandate for the Consumer Centre is required. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U81	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U82	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that educational institutions are supplied with masks that are new... purchased. The first hearing about some kind of donations and the need for them. Since this proposal is not supported by the Commission, I call for it not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U83	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 18, for - 53, for - 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U84	18. - Ivars Zarins' proposal. The content is that as of 1 May 2021, the Cabinet of Ministers allows catering services in outdoor spaces in accordance with the established procedure. The proposal has been partly supported, incorporated in 21. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U85	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U86	Good morning, everybody! Colleagues and all those who listen to our debate! It's happened. With this proposal, we have managed to break the ice of government failure and irresponsibility, where they themselves are suffering and punishing and smiling the whole of Latvian society, together with members of the opposition and the coalition. Yes, this proposal is about allowing the provision of catering services in outdoor spaces, that is, on terraces. Contrary to what is being said by a wide range of experts based on the theoretical assumptions of reality, this proposal does not increase but reduces the risk of infection. This has long been the case, and there are a number of reasons for this. They are so evident that any logical person living in reality would understand and support such a proposal. That is, the theory, what we are desperately told from a wide range of experts, is that the risks of infection will increase if we allow people to eat on terraces. On terraces where this catering service would be provided according to the epidemiological requirements - those restrictions developed by the Cabinet itself. Produced and approved. What is happening in reality? If such a service is prohibited by people who have bought food? They simply sit next to these terraces, sit together friendlyly, firmly on a bench to eat their meals or stop at their own car and eat their meals. And that's still the best case. Very often it is that people just climb into their car and there, in a closed room, eat their meals. This means that, by nature, such a ban causes exactly greater risks of infection than would have been the case if people ate their meals on the terraces. It is one very narrow aspect, but very practical. I can say this as a person who has observed this situation in practice and has also spoken to people for several weeks before submitting this proposal. The second thing is that in this way, by enabling people to stay more close to nature, move somewhere, stay in the fresh air, we strengthen human immunity and reduce the risk of infection. The question is why our government has been unable to take this decision for a week. This is rooted in the very principle that distinguishes the thinking of the hippo from the thinking of the susceptible. The nildoes solve the challenges by trying to get rid of the risks, the susceptible people watch how to drive them. And that's the problem. Our government comes to the principle that Joseph Stalin once defined: there are no people - there are no problems. In this way, they hope to solve all the problems, but in fact the opposite happens, because if you try to cover up with your bans on the whole area of people, then people have to stay somewhere. You don't allow them to stay outside, then they'll eat, they'll be socialized indoors. So it would have been right not to be afraid to try to mutate from these risks, to ignore them all, but on the contrary - to lead these risks, that is, to guide people to make them more stay in the fresh air. As a result, the government, through its decisions, is the biggest cause of the risk of infection - with its unthinking, unthinkable decisions. They are not making a way out of the crisis, but quite the opposite: they are making the whole country fight on it. That is also the answer to the question that you cannot understand in any way - why it is that you are making your bans, holding them, holding them, but not reducing the risks of infection, but starting to rise. Because you yourself, with your stupid, apologies, unthinking, irresponsible decisions, are the reason for this level of infection. Therefore, my fellow Members, I am calling for the following action to be taken today. I am ready to withdraw this proposal, I withdraw it and I call on... Why? To avoid legal weddings with votes and further possible jealousy. Because there are both the opposition and the coalition have made similar proposals, but what has been agreed by the commission - it has prepared... the Commission's proposal has been drawn up on the basis of these proposals. That is the 21st proposal, and I call for this proposal to be supported. So all those who understand this plague, who has been laid in by our government because of their failure and incompetentness, and understand that this needs to be corrected, I call for support 21. - the Commission's proposal. I wish everyone else more fresh air, more movement, more health and, of course, good appetite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U87	Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal has been partly supported by the Commission and cannot therefore be withdrawn. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U88	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I would also like to join those who support this proposal. There are several reasons for this, and above all the fact that... Mr. Zarins said right... This environment, places where people choose to eat, just... Either it's a machine, or they're offices, and not everyone has the conditions that they're working in their own office. Many citizens do not have this opportunity and, of course, collective... I think everyone has seen, and everyone has seen, how this happens. Just collective eating is going on. But when I look at these restrictions, I think the public, if such amendments are not adopted... One is clear, well, outside terraces will not be allowed to eat in a controlled way, people will choose quite different methods, alternative methods - in parks on benches. As soon as the time is warmer, we will also be able to observe how this happens. In European countries where this problem is already being fought as soon as it gets out plus 20 and the sun... How do people deal with these restrictions outside? Now we have to start thinking about how we can get these people to live in fresh air and fresh air... This is not just about eating, but in general, how we can make it safe... Just like Mr. Zarin said. These risks must be controlled, not create new and new restrictions. This simply does not lead to a result. People will choose... and, at present, the lack of understanding of a number of these restrictions is quite simply not being respected. We must not have a meal together, but we can see crowded buses during peak hours. Well, it's hard to explain to people why you can't sit down together in fresh air, subject to restrictions, and eat. But this is not the only thing I would like to raise with this proposal. There are also other issues, and these are issues of street trade. We know... We are now going to the central market of Riga, and we are going to a regional market called the market. Well, there can be companies out there - 10, 20, 30, 40, 50. There are no such restrictions. But if we, with these restrictions, would like, let us accept, in local governments in regions, in large areas, to allow people - farmers, farmers - to trade their produce, thus broadening opportunities, there are 20 traders in one territory. This, in my view, is in some ways a discriminatory restriction, and we should look at how we can remove this restriction, changing it, enabling people who trade to form open points of trade, so that it is not as currently concentrated only on markets, namely, trying to create outdoor outlets. I think entrepreneurs would be very interested and already exist, but this restriction prevents this type of development. So that I call for support 21. - a proposal drawn up by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U89	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U90	The new Conservatives, to be precise... has put forward 20 proposals in this three-proposal chain. All have been partly supported. And that's the thing... these proposals (and also 21). - The proposal made by the Commission, which provides for the authorisation of catering service providers to provide services in outdoor spaces in accordance with the epidemiological requirements, is, perhaps, the Saeima's wish to do so, so that the Cabinet of Ministers can stop pretending not to see that it is actually eating outdoors. Unlike many other things, which may be difficult to notice and which do not occur in the outdoors, and which are subject to disputes, such as the pretending that there is no provision of beauty services, in this case unfortunately everyone on the street. There has been a variety of evidence that people buy them together, well, yes, in a bar for lunch and then, for example, in a park on a bench to eat them together in a friendly way. Or sit in a car that is off and not ventilated and eats lunch within 20 minutes. Or, for example, there is evidence that some tables and benches have appeared at the cafes in a special way... which, of course, are not in any way related to the cafe... which are used, even in a bar, friendly to one another also to eat. Well, maybe there's one longer table, six people sit down and eat their food calmly. That is why I say: these are proposals - and also those prepared by the Commission - about how to stop pretending once that something is not happening naturally and, of course, not realistically controlled. In this case, fresh air, also a regulated process, as in general, this eating on terraces can take place, including, for example, that there may be one or two households at one table, that the tables are located at a distance of two metres between each other - this can only bring benefits in limiting the infection. I used to work, specialised in risk management, and to some extent I have risk management as a lifestyle. In this case, I see that the risk that is being allowed in different areas (not only in catering), that restrictions are realistically uncontrolled or that there is a pretend that they do not take place is greater than if there are reasonable, sustainable proposals that allow economic activity to be ensured in a regulated and measurable way, from which the food business operators benefit, as well as physically giving people the opportunity to eat adequately, for example, a warm lunch. Eating a man who is one of the basic needs has not been removed and will not be removed. The pretend that people suddenly all have learned cooking skills at home is, I would say, quite naive. Neva! It's not! And that everyone orders, especially in regions where neither Bolt nor Wolf is available... There are regions, believe, outside - there is not only Riga in Latvia - where there are no such opportunities at all. So, of course, these things are happening in an uncontrolled manner. I therefore call on you, given that I also cannot withdraw my proposal, to vote accordingly then... reject the series of these proposals and support the 21st proposal, so that from 7 May the terraces can work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U91	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U92	Colleagues! I know how you can solve this wedding. Mr. Feldman has always hurried up, but he can correct his mistake. We simply do not call for a vote on our proposals and go ahead and we vote when there will be 21. - Commission proposal. That's how we solve this story. So that I call on Mr Feldman to cancel his request for a vote, and then we... all of this is no longer necessary. On the other hand, I would call on the government to put it out of its walls and look at what is really happening, how Latvian society is living together with the constraints recommended by this government. Perhaps it would help you understand and make more meaningful decisions, because at the moment I was following the last meeting of the government in which you decided on these restrictions until the very end, it was until late night, and I was waiting for you to finally start going out there on sound principles. There were only certain ministers who were able to ask the right questions, but they did not receive any answers to them. It was simply the opposite of psychosis, there were general, theoretical, unrealistic assertions, which did not at all have any evidence below, with the inability to analyse the causality. As a result, you come to the point where you come to, that you cannot make responsible decisions, because simply... by nature you are not created for this, you have never made responsible decisions there...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U93	Thank you, thank you. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman for the second time. Colleagues! Please, please, do not be offended. Without unjustified, personal insults, the Saeima sittings can take place with complete calmness. So the name to Member Krišjānis Feldman for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U94	But... When we talk about insults, well, we already have a commission of Mandates, ethics and applications, which has too little work to do, so there can also do if anything. Yes, well, Mr Zarins is right in that respect, I have requested a vote. But if there is such a common understanding of the Saeima that we are going in this direction, then I withdrew my request for a vote and so we can go ahead by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U95	Thank you. Thus, Member Feldman does not request a vote on this proposal. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U96	On behalf of the Commission, nothing can be added to this proposal. And going on, probably...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U97	The proposal has therefore been partly supported and Members agree with the Commission's position.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U98	19. - Ivars Zarins' proposal. It is also related to catering, but it provides that the Cabinet of Ministers shall at any moment have the right to suspend them if necessary.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U99	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U100	Colleagues! I would like to call for no one to vote on this proposal at once. We are going further and we will vote in favour of 21. - the Commission's proposal. For my part, however, I would like to point out that I never insult anyone, nor make any unfounded accusations in my speeches. Even more...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U101	I closed the debate. For the Commission Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U102	Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U103	And Members agree with the position of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U104	Yes, so it was partly supported by the Commission, included 21. - the Commission's proposal. Further 20. - the proposal from Members Gat Eglišs and Krišjānis Feldman. Here is exactly the same situation with catering in the outdoors that we were talking about. The Commission was partly supported, incorporated in 21. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U105	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U106	This proposal relates to the subject already discussed, and here it was its nuance that we had submitted this proposal that we were planning to open its terraces from 3 May, subject to the requirements of the Cabinet of Ministers' regulations - distance and so on, requirements for the direct provision of catering services on the terraces. The Commission decided, given that it is suspected that the law could not be announced by 3 May (but I hope that this will happen as soon as possible), security after agreeing on the next proposal - 7 May - and neither did it specify the precise regulation of the Cabinet of Ministers. Point 360, which requirements should be respected, because they can also change in theory and so on, let us say so... following the recommendation of the Legal Office. So, in this case, I do not call for a vote either, and then we are going ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U107	Thank you. The debate is closed. Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U108	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Commission proposal. It is precisely the proposal that we have been talking about in the last few minutes, that is to say, the authorisation of catering services in outdoors, which is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers as of 7 May. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U109	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U110	This is a good compromise drafted by the Commission on 7 May. Entrepreneurs will also be able to prepare. In general, I should like to thank you for the active work done by the members of the Commission, as well as the opposition for having been able to make progress, because, of course, otherwise we would have been here for a long time without such obvious things. Well, in this case perhaps even we should demand a vote, I don't know. Let Ivars Zarins comment! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U111	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U112	If we are talking about this proposal, of course, the compromise could have been better, but it is good that this compromise has been reached, and it is really a great success. As I said, it is really an opportunity to break this irresponsible and incompetent ice in which the whole country is frozen. We have managed to do this. Of course, the deadline could also be set earlier, it could be 3 May, even 1 May. We were able to give the whole Latvian society an opportunity to celebrate the public holidays in the fresh air, not somewhere in the premises where they have a higher risk of infection, but better, at least, that we know that this necessary step is finally taken, it has been implemented. Better later than very late... too late. I call for this proposal to be supported if there is a vote. For my part, I do not demand it, because we know all kinds of miracles that tend to occur between reasonable decisions and after they have to be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U113	Thank you. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U114	Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U115	The proposal is supported. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 21. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported. Next - 22.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U116	Next - 22. - the proposal from Members Gat Eglišs and Krišjānis Feldman. This shall apply to the authorisation of moto training by excluding the relevant points in the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. The Commission has partially supported, included 23. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U117	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U118	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Commission proposal. There is something I have just said about removing the prohibitive points of this motto from the Cabinet of Ministers' regulations and allowing for training. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U119	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U120	This is a proposal that is drawn up on the basis of the previous - our - proposal. You may remember that, last week or even earlier, even two weeks ago, the Saeima voted in favour of the draft decision asking for a review of these points. That draft decision was at the initiative of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, and the Saeima had unanimous support for this issue, for which, of course, thank you. Either way, in indirect details, but failed to review these points. There was... Even more controversial versions appeared, which no lawyer could explain how it was really meant and how it would be applied in practical life. This also led to this proposal that such a regulation, or as it rightly calls, should be deleted. For example, we already know that motorcyclists only communicate on radios, so it's not possible through a helmet... just don't hear otherwise what the instructor says. Therefore, it can be removed quietly from the open, i.e. the rule of law, such an unnecessary norm. Then paragraph 2 remains in force - this is about remote payments, everything else. That's a good point. Then further - the paragraph stating that it is... come man in a protective outfit with helmet, with his--your! - Apparel, gloves... That point is deleted for 15 minutes, that the motorcycle must be ventilated from the viruses and disinfected. Disinfection is also taking place, but it has also created a number of different issues for Members of the Commission. In our practical life, we found out... but we heard evidence from the industry that this is such an interesting point, given that the motorcycle has no cab. And point 4 is that contentious, where at first, if there were even a hectare of a large square, then there can be one instructor and two learners, who of course are absurd, because right there... another rule is that, for example, group classes can take place, people can exercise in a park without helmets and without any protective clothing. That paragraph 4 would therefore, of course, also lose its power with this proposal. The versions made by the officials - who have been able to figure out - are also even more controversial. There already appears that not one instructor and two trainers per hectare or how, but now it is that there can be one instructor per trainer, but now, okay, 200 square meters. If there is an area of hectares, 50 instructors are needed theoretically to fill it. I think in Riga... I don't know if there are so many instructors at all. It's just not in nature... Let's say so, don't make sense in real life. Thus, in order to avoid these misunderstandings and to respect the general distance requirements, which are about two metres and everything else, people can communicate in the outdoor space at all... Because you already know, you can't go on the street in a big bar, it's not allowed right now... That point would then also lose its power. I invite you to support it and go ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U121	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U122	Mr Feldman has already drawn some attention to the substance of this proposal and also to its absurdity. This is another obvious example of how illogical we have these restrictions. If we can predict 25 square meters per person in the shop and say that this is safe, in public transport we have about 10 smaller areas per person, but people are much more dense and ventilation is much worse. The mototras, on the other hand, will take thousands of square meters per person if we count. And in all seriousness, the government has decided and made such restrictions and is unable to lift them itself. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call on you, this is really real, well, a plague - a real plague! - which must be corrected. I call on us to support this proposal and perhaps give the government the opportunity to start thinking with such decisions that, however, it is necessary to come to its decisions responsibly and thoughtfully, not simply with psychosis and emotional claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U123	The name to the Member Atm Lejny.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U124	Hello, Madam President. Colleagues! As a former motorcycle driver (I have had three motorcycles), I know that a motorcycle can only be driven out, so I call for not so much to blame the government, which is now very popular, but experts who have not known this simple truth. I call for no more debate and for a vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U125	Colleagues, let us finish the work on this bill and then go on a break. The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U126	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! With respect for time, I will also be quite brief and focused. So, ladies and gentlemen, this issue marks a very broader issue because, at the Commission's meeting, Members did not believe whether the so-called experts of the operational management group had indeed assessed the introduction of this norm into nature, as it might seem, and whether such a restriction is logical at all. First of all, thank you, my colleague, for supporting the draft decision of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, which was endorsed at the Saeima sitting. And also those Members who have tabled this proposal. Please support this proposal because it is very logical and indeed prevent a illogical situation from creating a often controversial assessment of the decisions of the Saeima and the government in general. This would be a step towards a more logical regulatory framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U127	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U128	Colleagues, this, in a way, is a narrow question, which is very illogical, and these examples, which are illustrated by colleagues, are in themselves an indication of how careful and on what principles restrictions are being prepared. But, unfortunately, I would also like to say to Mr Leenis that the government has already taken these decisions, and this is not the only one; here we are just looking at a narrow range of questions about motorcycles, but the same thing... A whole series of the same issues, which are equally incomprehensible and unfulfilled, are also in other areas, so I would urge colleagues to think and turn to their government ministers to do their work more carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U129	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U130	Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission. I call for support for the proposal in question.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U131	Please call me! We will vote in favour 23. - the proposal submitted by the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U132	Thank you, colleagues for your support. I call for support to be given to this draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U133	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” in the second, final, reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, There's also a record of Members. Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. So it's a break until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U134	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! We shall continue the sitting after a break with the examination of the draft laws. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Credit Institutions, second reading. The law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U135	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has therefore examined the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions’, which was declared urgent as a result of the delay in transposition of the directives. This was to be done by the end of 2020. Therefore, urgency. This draft law is also related to the next one, “Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments”. The amendments have been designed to transpose Directive 2019/878 as regards exempt companies, financial holding companies, mixed financial holding companies, remuneration, supervisory measures as well as capital conservation measures, including loss absorption and recapitalisation capacity for credit institutions and investment firms. So these two draft laws are very technical. That's why, let's say... on the proposals... Yes, I would immediately like to say a reproof to the Ministry of Finance. This is the second time we are being presented with a editorial brother for the second reading. Last time it was in relation to the draft law on covered bonds, where there were also over a hundred mainly editorial proposals. That is why I will not, as you say, report on every proposal, because they are mostly technical and editorial. So it's 1. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U136	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U137	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Also of a editorial nature. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U138	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U139	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U140	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U141	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The second subparagraph shall be supplemented by a number of points relating to the European Union's... Well, on the definitions - which is the parent institution, which is the tier one capital, which is the global systemic financial institution. The budget and financial (tax) commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U142	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U143	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Also of a editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U144	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U145	6. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. It is envisaged that the text should be supplemented. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U146	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U147	7. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Partly supported, included 8. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U148	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U149	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U150	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U151	9. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U152	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U153	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U154	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U155	11. - The proposal from Member Gats Eglitis. The outsourcing of credit institutions shall be regulated. Consequently, what criteria outsourcing providers have to fulfil in order to be able to provide services to credit institutions. Partly supported and included 22. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U156	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U157	12. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Partly supported and included 22. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U158	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U159	13. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Partly supported and included 22. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U160	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U161	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Partly supported and included 22. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U162	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U163	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - John Reere's proposal. Partially supported, included 22. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U164	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U165	16. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Partly supported and included 22. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U166	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U167	17. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Partly supported and included 22. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U168	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U169	18. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Partly supported and included 22. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U170	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U171	19. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Partly supported and included 22. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U172	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U173	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Partly supported and included 22. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U174	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U175	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Partly supported and included 22. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U176	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U177	22. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U178	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U179	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Clarifying character. The budget and financial (tax) commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U180	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U181	24. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Also of a editorial nature. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U182	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U183	25. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Supported by 26. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U184	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U185	26. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U186	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U187	27. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The conditions for a single procedure for the resolution of credit institutions and certain investment firms shall be laid down by setting up a single resolution mechanism. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U188	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U189	28. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Editable. Partly supported, included in proposal 29.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U190	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U191	29. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U192	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U193	30. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It is envisaged to recast Article 11 of the draft law. Partially supported, included 31. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U194	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U195	31. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Adjust it... in respect of the acquisition of the capital of a bank. The Commission shall be entitled to terminate the assessment period until the date on which the institution exercising supervision on a consolidated basis completes the assessment. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U196	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U197	32. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U198	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U199	34. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U200	33.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U201	Yeah, I'm sorry, 33. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has been supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U202	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U203	34. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U204	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U205	35. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U206	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U207	36. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U208	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U209	37. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Editable. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U210	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U211	38. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U212	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U213	39. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U214	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U215	40. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Also of a editorial nature. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U216	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U217	41. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U218	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U219	42. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U220	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U221	43. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U222	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U223	44. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Editable. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U224	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U225	45. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U226	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U227	46. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U228	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U229	47. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U230	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U231	48. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U232	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U233	49. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U234	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U235	50. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U236	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U237	51. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Also of a editorial nature. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U238	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U239	52. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Editable. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U240	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U241	53. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Editable. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U242	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U243	54. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U244	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U245	55. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Editable. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U246	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U247	56. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Clarifying character. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U248	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U249	57. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U250	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U251	58. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U252	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U253	59. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U254	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U255	60. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Consequently, those responsible for the prevention of money laundering, terrorism and financing of proliferation. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U256	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U257	61. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Partly supported, included 62. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U258	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U259	62. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Regulation of the Financial and Capital Market Commission... what to do with information at the disposal of the Financial and Capital Market Commission concerning persons who violate, say, the terms of the money obtained unlawfully. The budget and financial (tax) commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U260	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U261	63. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Partially supported, included 64. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U262	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U263	64. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It is envisaged that the clients of the credit institution have publicly disseminated information about cooperation with a credit institution which does not correspond to the information at the credit institution's disposal or, within the framework of journalism, information about cooperation with the client... Therefore, as regards this disclosure of public information. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U264	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U265	65. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Editable. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U266	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U267	66. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Clarifying character. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U268	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U269	67. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Editable. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U270	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U271	68. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U272	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U273	69. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Editable. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U274	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U275	70. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U276	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U277	71. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Clarifying character. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U278	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U279	72. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The numbering of the Regulation shall be specified. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U280	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U281	73. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Clarifying character. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U282	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U283	74. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Clarifying character. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U284	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U285	75. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U286	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U287	76. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. For directly applicable European Union law. The budget and financial (tax) commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U288	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U289	77. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. This is the absolute value of the liabilities sensitive to the spread risk on bonds and loans that are qualifying It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U290	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U291	78. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U292	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U293	79. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Editable. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U294	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U295	80. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U296	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U297	81. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Also of a editorial nature. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U298	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U299	82. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. This is the absolute value of the liabilities sensitive to the spread risk on bonds and loans that are qualifying infrastructure corporate The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U300	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U301	83. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Regarding... also on capital requirements. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U302	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U303	84. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Clarifying character. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U304	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U305	85. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Also of a editorial nature. Partly supported, included in 87. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U306	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U307	86. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Full sharing of limited access information with the Financial and Capital Market Commission shall be envisaged. This proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U308	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U309	87. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U310	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U311	88. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U312	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U313	89. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U314	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U315	90. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U316	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U317	91. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It is also of a more precise nature. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U318	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U319	92. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Clarifying character. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U320	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U321	93. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Editable. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U322	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U323	94. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Editable. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U324	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U325	95. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U326	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U327	96. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U328	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U329	97. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Provides for effective cooperation... the cooperation agreement between the Financial and Capital Market Commission and the relevant bank coordinator. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U330	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U331	98. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U332	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U333	99. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. With regard to claims by natural persons, micro-enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U334	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U335	100. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U336	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U337	101. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It is also of a more precise nature. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U338	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U339	102. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U340	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U341	103. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U342	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U343	104. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Clarifying character. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U344	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U345	105. - The proposal from Member Gats Eglitis. Partially supported, included 106. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U346	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U347	106. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U348	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U349	107. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U350	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U351	108. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U352	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U353	109. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Therefore, the details of the transitional provisions. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U354	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U355	110. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. A clarification of the transitional provisions is also required. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U356	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U357	111. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U358	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U359	Consequently, I call for support for the second, final and final reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U360	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions, second, final, final, reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - Draft Law on the Market in Financial Instruments Act, second reading. The law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U361	So, colleagues, this draft law is related to the previous one, “Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions”. So the draft law on the Financial Instruments Market Act is intended to take over a number of directives that I informed you of last time, so those that regulate all these very complex relationships - the capacity of loss absorption and recapitalisation to credit institutions, the activities of investment firms. As I said, the deadline for transposition was already December 2020, so there is an urgent need. Thus, eight proposals have been received in this draft law. 1. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The numbering of articles has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U362	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U363	2. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U364	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U365	3. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U366	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U367	4. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U368	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U369	5. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Clarifying character. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U370	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U371	6. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U372	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U373	7. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The transitional provisions shall be specified. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U374	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U375	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Clarifying character. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U376	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U377	I therefore call for support for the second, final and final reading of the draft law on the "Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments".
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U378	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, final reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments"! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Gatis Zamurs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U379	Hello, head of the Saeima sitting! Colleagues! We are working on the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law” (No. 1013/Lp13), which has been declared urgent. For the second, final, reading seven proposals have been received. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technical relating to clarification of the delivery of press releases and associated services. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U380	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U381	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technically, the term "subscription press delivery services" defined in proposal 1 is included in Section 19, first paragraph of the Law. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U382	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U383	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. It is stipulated that the universal postal service provider is obliged to improve postal services in line with market trends. Partially supported, included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U384	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U385	4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Technical. Established to include correctly the third proposal in the second paragraph of Section 27 of the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U386	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U387	5. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. Provision shall be made for different quality requirements for the supply of subscriptions to press publications and related services, taking into account the specificities of the services. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U388	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U389	6. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. Transitional provisions shall be supplemented by providing that, between 1 January 2022 and 31 December 2026, the supply of subscriptions to the press and related services shall be subject to quality requirements without degradation of delivery times. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U390	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U391	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Provision shall be made for the entry into force of the law in the following wording: ‘The law shall enter into force on the day following its publication.’ Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U392	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U393	Therefore, on behalf of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, please support the draft law at second, final, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U394	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law” at second, final, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Legal Movement of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and Medicinal Products and Precursors”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juris Jurash. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U395	Hello, colleagues! At third reading we see the draft law on the Law on the Legal Movement of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and Medicinal Products and Precursors (No. 885/Lp13). Five proposals were examined by the Legal Commission. So step by step. 1. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard. Provision is made for the rewording of the third paragraph of Article 44, which provides that ‘the Food and Veterinary Service shall supervise and monitor the veterinary authorities and veterinarians handling substances and medicinal products included in lists II and III’. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U396	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U397	2. - also the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard. The time limit set in the transitional provisions shall be specified by the Cabinet of Ministers to draw up the regulations referred to in Section 36, Paragraph three of the Law and Section 37.1 of the Law, as well as to determine the transitional period during which certain regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers shall apply. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U398	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U399	3. - a proposal from Members Valeria Agešin and Vitaly Orlov. The Act provides for the entry into force of the Act on 1 May 2021. The Legal Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U400	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U401	4. - the proposal of the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavlut. It also provides for the entry into force of the law on 1 May 2021. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U402	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U403	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The entry into force of the law shall be determined on 1 June 2021. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U404	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U405	So all the proposals that have been tabled have been examined. I call on Members to support the draft law on the Law on the Legal Movement of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and Medicinal Products and Precursors (No. 885/Lp13) at third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U406	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third final reading of the bill on the Law on the Legal Movement of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and Medicinal Products as well as Precursors! Please, let's vote! No, 85, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juris Jurash.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U407	Colleagues, at third reading, consider draft law “Amendments to Law on Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law” (No. No 886/Lp13), which is related to the newly supported draft law on the Law on the Legal Movement of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and Medicinal Products and Precursors (No 886/Lp13). 885/Lp13). Six proposals were examined by the Legal Commission. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Provision shall be made for supplementing the transitional provisions by paragraphs 5, 6, 7 and 8 in a specific version which lays down the time limit for the entry into force of the provisions. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U408	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U409	2. - the proposal of the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavlut. Proposes a deadline for transition... replaced on 1 April by 1 May. The Legal Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U410	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U411	3. - also the proposal of the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavlut. In point 16 of Chapter IV of Annex 2 to the Act, the enclosed note marked with an asterisk to point 15 and point 63 is proposed to be excluded and the note at the end of the table to be excluded. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U412	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U413	4. - a proposal from Members Valeria Agešin and Vitaly Orlov. The Act provides for the entry into force of the Act on 1 May 2021. The Legal Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U414	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U415	5. - the proposal of the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavlut. Also establishes the date of entry into force of the law - 1 May 2021. The Legal Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U416	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U417	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The entry into force of the law shall be determined on 1 June 2021. The Legal Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U418	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U419	So all the proposals have been examined. I invite Members to support the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law” (No. 886/Lp13) at third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U420	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Railway Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Gatis Zamurs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U421	Good afternoon! In the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, we have examined the draft law on “Amendments to the Railway Law” (No. 1032/Lp13) at first reading. The aim of the draft law is to determine the amount of funding appropriate for the performance of the functions of the National Railway Administration, the State Railway Technical Inspection and the Office for the Investigation of Transport Accidents and Incidents, by extending the deadline for carrying out the task set out in the transitional provisions of the Railway Law until 1 April 2023, to make editorial adjustments in line with the Amendment to the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 establishing a single European railway area and supplementing the definitions of the charging and calculation scheme with the quality assurance of new entities. The Act shall enter into force on 10 June 2021. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U422	Thank you. Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Railway Law at first reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U423	The deadline for submitting proposals is 6 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U424	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 6 May this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” (No. 978/Lp13), first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Aldis Adamovičs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U425	Hello, dear colleagues! The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has examined draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. (978/Lp13) and decided to support this draft law and to direct it to the session of the Saeima for first reading. The draft law provides that the School of the State Administration shall maintain the state information system - Training Management System. In addition to this draft law, it is also planned to clarify Article 14 of the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Authorities on Compensation of Overtime Hours of Institutions of the Ministry of the Interior System and Administration of Prisons with Special Service Degrees. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U426	Thank you. In the debate, Members have not applied. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” (No. (978/Lp13) at first reading! Please, let's vote! For - 83, for - no, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U427	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 4 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U428	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 4 May this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” (No. 1001/Lp13), first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Aldis Adamovičs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U429	Colleagues! The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government also examined the second draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” (No. 1001/Lp13). The draft law provides for ensuring that, as a result of the addition of the Financial and Capital Market Commission, Latvijas Banka is excluded from the concept of the Financial and Capital Market Commission in the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions. According to the current regulatory framework, the draft law clarifies the name of the institution, replacing the words “Monitoring of Money Laundering Service” with the new title “Financial Intelligence Service”. The Commission supported the first reading. I also call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U430	Thank you. In the debate, Members have not applied. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” (No. 1001/Lp13) at first reading. Please, let's vote! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U431	The deadline for tabling proposals for second reading is also 4 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U432	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 4 May this year. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Customs Act’, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U433	Honourable Members! ‘ Amendments to the Customs Act’ (No. 1016/Lp13) provides for simplification of authorisations of natural persons in customs matters, clarifies the functioning of the State Revenue Service with electronic declaration systems on issues regarding dispatch of notifications and other issues. Amendments define the functioning of the State Revenue Service and the competence in matters of intellectual property protection in accordance with Regulation No. 608/2013; regulates actions in cases of detection of consignments of counterfeit goods, dispatch of notifications to the recipients of goods, legal proceedings if, for example, the recipient does not agree that these goods have been counterfeited, storage procedures, procedures for destruction of goods and a number of other issues; also determines the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers to develop, if necessary, the relevant rules and manner in which these measures - all related to the distribution of illegal goods - have been implemented, and the procedure of documentation. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U434	Thank you. Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Customs Act". Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U435	Since this whole procedure with various customs irregularities, irregularities, counterfeit goods being drawn for at least a few thousand years - we can read about this in the New Testament... on customs, I thought... You don't need a lot of time, everything is known. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 5 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U436	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 5 May this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U437	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! The draft law provides for delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to determine the current lack of conditions for the arrangement of foreign ships and ships of other foreign public services entering and staying in the territorial sea, internal waters and ports, as well as exit from the territorial sea, internal waters and ports. The draft law also provides for a transitional provision - that the new order will enter into force next January. In the Commission, the draft law was supported. I call for this to be supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U438	Thank you. The Members in the debate have not applied. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia” at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U439	The deadline for submitting proposals is 5 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U440	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 5 May this year. Draft law “Amendments to the National Security Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U441	Very respectful head of the Saeima sitting! Colleagues! In its meeting of 20 April this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Security” (No. (Lp13) and it was prepared for first reading. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Security” developed by the Ministry of Economics and supported by the Cabinet of Ministers. This improves the regulation of the corporate system, which is important for national security, and the responsibilities assigned to it. A commercial company which is important for national security derives from the law two obligations – to submit the information specified in the law and to inform the institution of the commercial register about compliance with the status of a commercial company which is important for national security. In practice it has been identified that this information is not provided in all cases. The amendments submitted confer on the Ministry of Economics the right to adopt administrative acts whereby, if a commercial company fails to comply with the requirements laid down by law, a decision is taken and an obligation is imposed on it to provide the information prescribed by law. In addition, in these cases, institutions... The Ministry itself is granted the right to provide information to an institution of a commercial register. The decision is intended to be implemented in compliance with Section 40 of the Administrative Procedure Law. The draft law does not provide for the introduction of new requirements, but rather for the enforcement mechanism of existing requirements. The Commission has supported the examination of draft laws at first reading and calls on the Saeima to support the draft laws at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U442	Thank you. Members do not want to debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on National Security". Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U443	The deadline for submitting proposals is 5 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U444	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 5 May this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juris Jurash. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U445	Dear colleagues, At second reading we see the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” (No. 897/Lp13), which was designed to implement electronic criminals or electronic criminals and improve the circulation of electronic documents in criminal proceedings in the prosecutor’s office, court and investigative institutions. Four proposals were examined by the Legal Commission. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns, which provides for the replacement of the words "serious or particularly serious crime" in paragraph 13 of Article 387 of the law by the words "criminal offence", extending the action of the investigative authorities provided for in the article in cases where information about any criminal offence is received. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U446	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U447	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns, which provides in Article 628 of the law for the exclusion of the words “the suspect or accused person and”, thus specifying the procedure laid down in the article for informing persons related to property. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U448	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U449	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns, which intends to supplement the transitional provisions of the law with paragraphs 78 and 79, which determine the time of entry into force of certain provisions of the law. The proposal was partly supported and incorporated in 4. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U450	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U451	4. - The proposal of the Legal Commission, which lays down in the transitional provisions of the law the time limit for the implementation of e-criminal cases in the prosecutor's office, court and investigative institutions, as well as the procedure for the implementation of e-criminal cases. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U452	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U453	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U454	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” at second reading! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U455	The deadline for submitting proposals is 27 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U456	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 27 May this year. Draft Act on Accounting, second reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U457	Good afternoon, President-in-Office of the Saeima, colleagues and colleagues, viewers and listeners of the sitting! In the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission we have examined before the second reading the proposals submitted regarding the draft of the new Accounting Law. We received 36 proposals from the Commission, and we also made a total of 36 proposals within the Commission. Most of the proposals are of a editorial and technical nature. 1. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau which is of a editorial and technical nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U458	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U459	2. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau which is of a editorial and technical nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U460	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U461	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This proposal changes the layout of the articles. This proposal is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U462	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U463	4. - a proposal by the Legal Office to exclude Article 8 (4) (3). The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U464	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U465	5. - a proposal from the Legal Office which is of a technical and editorial nature. The Commission supports and includes 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U466	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U467	6. - a proposal drawn up by the committee responsible for the rewording of Article 10, third paragraph, paragraph 2, stating that the accounts may also be kept in a system of simple accounts by associations, foundations and trade unions whose turnover does not exceed EUR 100 000 in the reference year. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U468	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U469	7. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau which is a proposal of a technical and editorial nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U470	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U471	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The title of the article is to be clarified and supplemented. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U472	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U473	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Complements to the regulation of eligible documents. The Commission shall be supported by a corresponding change in the numbering of the following articles.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U474	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U475	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Legal Office which is of a technical and editorial nature. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U476	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U477	11. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau which is of a editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U478	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U479	12. - Member Eglysh's proposal. Provides for supporting documents to be certified by the company's electronic seal - in accordance with the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. The Commission is partly supported, included in 15. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U480	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U481	13. - a proposal from the committee responsible for the regulation of external eligible documents. The numbering of the following paragraphs has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U482	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U483	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Eglysh's proposal. It has already been corrected 13. - in the Commission's proposal... Additions. This proposal has been partly supported and included in the 13th report. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U484	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U485	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It adds 12. - Member Eglych's proposal. And it is supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U486	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U487	16. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Zakaistov. It is intended to complement the range of external justification documents with tax returns and documents issued by the tax administration. The Commission shall be supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U488	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U489	17. - a proposal from the Legal Office to exclude the first and second paragraphs of Article 12. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U490	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U491	18. - the proposal by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Zakaistov, which is editorial and technical. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U492	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U493	19. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Zakaistov. This proposal increases the average cash register revenues from €150 to €300 per working day so that the company can keep the cash books once a week. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U494	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U495	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Zakaistov. It is planned to supplement the regulation of application of norms and regulations - to extend it to branches of foreign traders and permanent establishments of non-residents (foreign traders). In the Commission, the 20th proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U496	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U497	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal of a editorial and technical nature of the legal office. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U498	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U499	22. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Zakaistov. Editable and technical. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U500	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U501	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau which is of a editorial nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U502	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U503	24. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is also a proposal of a technical nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U504	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U505	25. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Zakaistov. Changes in the qualifications of external accountants are foreseen. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U506	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U507	26. - Mr Kirštein's proposal. Editative and technical, complements the norm. Is partially supported, included in 25. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U508	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U509	I am sorry, not included in the Commission's proposal, but 25. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Zakaistov. 27. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Zakaistov. Editing technical character. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U510	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U511	28. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau which is a drafting proposal of a technical nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U512	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U513	29. - the proposal made by Member Stein to enable the accounts of associations and foundations to be held by means of an accounting officer who is a volunteer who meets a certain qualification. The Commission supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U514	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U515	30. - the proposal by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Zakaistov, which is editorial and technical. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U516	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U517	31. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable and technical. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U518	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U519	32. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Zakaistov. Complements the number of cases in which the State Revenue Service suspends the external accountant's licence and makes a note in the register. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U520	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U521	33. - the proposal by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Zakaistov, which is editorial and technical. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U522	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U523	34. - the proposal by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Zakaistov, which provides for changes to the transitional provisions. This proposal sets a time limit for the issue of regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U524	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U525	35. - Proposal by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Zakaistov, editorially technical. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U526	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U527	And the final one - 36. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, which sets the date of entry into force of the law, which will be 1 January 2022. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U528	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U529	I invite you to support the draft new Accounting Law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U530	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law on Accounting Law at second reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U531	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading shall be two weeks, or 13 May of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U532	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 13 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and Proliferation”, second reading. On behalf of the Monitoring Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption, Member Atis Zakaistovs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U533	Hello! Defence, home affairs and anti-corruption (not surveillance!) In the commission, we looked at draft law No. 872/Lp13 - Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and Proliferation. And we were fucking working. I will describe the way in which work has been done to make it clear to Members that all the proposals have been discussed very widely. For each (I really say for each!) The proposal was discussed by the Ministry of Finance, the Bank of Latvia, the Financial Intelligence Service, the Financial and Capital Market Commission, representatives of the industry, as well as... Well, everyone who wanted to talk, they talked. And maybe some people thought that the work organisation was pedantic, but I should praise the commission manager's phone, because many of the proposals submitted were also withdrawn, so that... We started with 120 proposals, and today we will see 89 proposals. In particular, as a result of these explanations, 30 proposals were withdrawn and, in my opinion, it points to a high-quality work that took place in the Commission. And now, let's start! 1. - Saeima Legal Bureau's proposal on terminology, on clarification of terms used in law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U534	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U535	2. - The proposal from Member Gats Eglitis. The proposal by Member Gat Eglitis is similar - that is terminology. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U536	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U537	Similar to 3. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. This also concerns terminology. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U538	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U539	We are now going to define the scope of the law. 4. - The proposal from Member Gats Eglitis. This is not supported by the Commission, as it seeks to narrow the range of entities that do not comply with the requirements of the European directive. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U540	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Gatis Eglitis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U541	Yeah, thank you. This proposal is therefore... As can be seen, Article 3 of the Law defines, say, the scope of these entities. And what I have proposed in this proposal and which is actually supported in the next - 5. - the proposal, which comes from the Minister for Agriculture and also from proposal 63, concerns, for example, companies within the same group... companies... as appropriate. Let's say, within the credit and bond issue group. The problem is that Article 3 provides for disproportionate requirements to register as a legal entity for all companies providing loans and guarantees to their subsidiaries. And given that these involved persons, legal entities, are subsidiaries and parent companies, they are formally enforceable requirements which consume large administrative resources, as the parent companies have access to all information on the subsidiaries and their economic activities, as well as on the actual beneficiaries, the board members, and so on. Moreover, such transactions should not be treated as credit and guarantee services, since they are not, for example, any economic activity of the company in which any person is credited or guaranteed, but these loans and guarantees are provided solely for the purpose of securing the economic activity of its subsidiaries. They are investments in the economic development of the subsidiary. So here is the question of common sense. Are we those small, medium-sized enterprises, which are also agricultural enterprises, cooperatives... just small businesses, where there are mothers and daughters... more industries and more businesses... So these companies, the holding companies, can say... whether we are burdening them with unnecessary administrative burdens, which in my view is not - really not! - nothing to do with combating the illegal origin of money? If you want to do this... More than 150 criminal proceedings have already been initiated against a number of banks to be wound up. There are big fish if someone wants to catch them, but the small fish that are our companies, economic operators... Let us not allow them to put on some kind of abstract, silly administrative burden! Why? Unfortunately, when we look at this draft law, that is the initial suggestion that we should see how we can improve our business lives, relieve them of this administrative burden, while not weakening this supervision of illegal money - that is the initial statement... Unfortunately, due to the Ministry of Finance, it has been lost in some way because of the Financial Intelligence Service. As far as I could, I saved, and this is one of these proposals... Well, that's... common sense, I'd say... And Europe is not asking us: indeed Europe is not asking us! - to punish our small and medium-sized enterprises with disproportionate demands. It's our... I don't know... In the heads of the officials of the Ministry of Finance. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U542	The name to the Member is Att Zakaitistov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U543	Thank you to Mr Eglitis for this tour during the discussion that took place on the Commission. In the Commission, all experts agreed that this proposal should be rejected because... It is essential to protect the economy from financial crises, bank failures and so on, by preventing funding for money laundering, terrorism and proliferation. And this is the way... Well, that scheme... the manner in which the money is not controlled within the group. It's the result - people suffer, banks go bankrupt. And this is by nature the salt of this bill. I call for this to be understood. And yes, Gatis Eglitis mentioned, well, little fish... As he said, this draft law on small businesses is specifically meant. At a later stage in proposal 7, you will see that as a result of the long-term work, agricultural enterprises (or small fish farming) are protected from excesses that could be included... or about which people could complain. Since this proposal is to be rejected, the whole industry rejects it. And that is how we can protect our economy from the financial crises that lead to an uncontrolled movement of money within the group. Please reject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U544	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U545	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues! I share Mr Egliša's opinion and assessment and I also ask my colleagues to support his proposal, and I will explain why. As far as I remember, the State Revenue Service also participated in the meeting of the Commission. The State Revenue Service performs both audits, thematic checks as well as risk monitoring of related company transactions, as well as control and manage all processes related to related companies, transfer transactions. And there are a number of developed legislation... regulation that also provides instruments to prevent... We ourselves, Members, relatively recently... We took anti-avoidance standards... corporate tax... introducing additional controls on mutual transactions... capital flows between participating undertakings. As for the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and on the Financing of Terrorism and Proliferation, I was the only Member in the first stage... When the Saeima examined this draft law at its initial stage, it opposed both the urgency of this draft law, its examination in the order of urgency, and its wording, which was proposed, because the law incorporated a number of norms which, in fact, Latvia was not required by Moneyval, nor by the European Union, it was the initiative of our officials - a creative approach. And I repeat several times, although those who listen and see us understand: that there is a problem with dirty money in Latvia, we know, “due to”... and on the basis of the evilly counted mantra of Latvian officials and non-governmental organisations, with which they try to convince themselves, society and society, who listen to us and watch us at international level. Day to day, year to year! And that's why there's such an idea about Latvia. In essence, a foreign opinion about Latvia as a dirty money launder is formed directly from the public statements of the Latvian officials. The fact that the opinion is, we have to "give thanks" for perhaps unsuccessful or exaggerated communication and small-histhematic self-shot, and that ourselves... we recognise our country as a dirty money-washer. As an example, I can mention even the recent decision taken by KNAB on the basis of... and a statement by FinCEN that no signs of a criminal offence related to possible corruption have been identified in the bank to be wound up. And so there are many questions - for whom it is beneficial, why it is beneficial. My points are as follows: it is because officials and officials derive from its personal benefit, international recognition and try to gain authority among foreign partners... because to do something at all, because making small problems a large-scale quasi-problem justifies professionalism... the need for work, the increase in the number of officials and the increase in funding. It is also a way to get an impact on the financial sector, as well as other officials, and processes that are taking place in the country here, in Latvia. And it can also be both a way and a cover to influence the sector and, in different cases, to benefit yourself. That is why I am asking for support for this proposal in order to prevent the extension of the rights of officials, because there are already enough instruments, both legislative, statutory articles and rights, and... for the State Revenue Service to control this type of transaction... as well as other law enforcement agencies. The problem is not that we lack regulation, but that their regulation is not applied in a qualitative or non-professional or inefficient manner by officials working in public administration. Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U546	I closed the debate. Please! On behalf of the Commission, a comment.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U547	In the Commission, we came to the conclusion that, in the face of the difficulties facing small businesses, this proposal seeks to make the large-scale fiscal machinations of nature invisible. And it was rejected by the Commission. Please reject this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U548	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Member Gat Eglix's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 32, for - 42, for - 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U549	5. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Gerhard. The Commission is supported. The scope of the legal entities is discussed and removed from the field ‘businessers, associations or non-profit organisations’. This proposal was also the subject of difficult negotiations within the framework of the Commission. In fact, this proposal is not in line with the spirit of our international commitments, but... What Mr Gerhard could be convinced about is that the particular nature of farming is that this type of transaction is necessary during the harvest and harvest cycle. This will also be discussed separately in proposal 7, where... the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, contacted the European Commission and reached an exceptional situation. This proposal was supported by the Commission. This proposal is likely to be the subject of further negotiations at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U550	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U551	6. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. That's, well, with such concerns about latonism and expressions... This is a technical nature. And it is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U552	Members are in favour. Mr. Zakatistova, I am sorry. Dear colleagues, it is time for a break. Registration of the presence of Members has taken place. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U553	Dear Members, honourable Members, After a break, we shall continue the examination of the agenda for the remote emergency sitting on 29 April. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and Proliferation”, second reading. Member Atis Zakaitistov shall report on behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. The first six proposals have been examined until the end. We are going on with proposal 7.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U554	7. - Commission proposal. This is supported. Here I would like to explain... and even proud of the good work of the Ministry of Finance. In particular, there was a meeting between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance on the specifics of Latvia, on how... Money is needed in the agricultural production process. That was understood. The officials of the Ministry of Finance were very professional in persuading the European Commission that such an exception is necessary. Please support, this is important for our farming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U555	Thank you. The Members in the debate have not applied. So Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U556	8 / 8 - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. This concerns the definition of the availability of information in relation to the provisions of the Directive. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U557	Members support 8. - the proposal of the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U558	9. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. This is also supported by the Commission. Related to clarifications on the availability of information.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U559	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U560	The transition to a risk assessment. 10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira, which is a service provider of a joint customer research tool closed or open. This section is intended to make it clear to small businesses in particular how customer research services can be carried out. In the Commission, proposal 10 was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U561	Members support 10. - the proposal of the Minister for Finance, John Reere.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U562	11. - a Commission proposal on audit functions, internal control mechanisms and systems. This is also the case with the directive. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U563	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U564	12. - The proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, which relates to laconic statements... Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U565	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U566	There is now a set of proposals - from proposals 13 to 20 - that involve reputational risks. There was a broad debate in the Commission and, at the end of the 20th proposal, we have reached the lowest possible level... the definition of reputational risk, which... has been intentionally committed and proved to have been committed. 13. - the proposal by Members Eglišs, Možville, Bondara, Indricksones and Kozlovsky. Partly supported, included in proposal 20.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U567	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U568	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Members Stepanenko, Svekova, Scraves and... I am sorry, including the proposal made by Member Gobzem. Partly supported, included in proposal 20.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U569	We launched a debate on proposal 14. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U570	Yeah, thank you. It was precisely the introduction of the definition of reputational risks in the new version of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and on the Financing of Terrorism and Proliferation that led to a wide-ranging debate, and there was also reason why I did not support the progress of such a draft law, and why this proposal and the following two proposals, which were partly supported by the Commission and included in the Commission's wording, were prepared and submitted. Why did I propose that this requirement of perfect reputation be excluded? First of all, because the official working in the public administration of Latvia very much likes to be the first to introduce administrative burdens, restrictive measures - so that our country is the first among the countries of the European Union. In terms of GDP per capita, Latvia is located in one of the last places in the European Union. On the other hand, by introducing European Union directives on restrictions, sanctions and the corresponding additional administrative burden, we are first-ranking! That is the fact. That is the essence. I would also like to quote Inna Steinbuck's publication, which was related to the study on the economic aspects of the Covid-19 and the results of the study. I quote: “Latvia faced the Covid-19 crisis at a time when its economic growth started to break down, as a result of a reduction in transit and the “capital repairs” of the banking sector. Undoubtedly, the “capital repairs” in the financial sector has allowed Latvia’s reputation to be restored to the international banking environment and has confirmed that the government is able to be decisive and act in a situation where international confidence is threatened. However, the price we have paid is untied investment, difficult lending and a limited capacity of companies to develop their business.” Therefore, I believe that, when proposing certain versions, new administrative barriers, requirements, control mechanisms, it would be important to weigh and reflect on when and how, and whether, and indeed, this is required and necessary. And given that this requirement for perfect reputation was also withdrawn by practically all politicians representing the ruling coalition, I believe that the first proposal of the draft law on perfect reputation is excessive and unfounded and in no way conflicts with the interests of the Latvian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U571	The debate is closed. For the Commission, Mr Zakatistova... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U572	This was a proposal about reputational risks, not the motivation or diligence of Latvian officials. In the Commission, Mrs Švelova was heard, understood and the 20th proposal proposes a version that satisfies everyone. Consequently, this proposal has been partly supported and included in proposal 20.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U573	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - the motion submitted by Members Stepanenko, Svecova, Sprūde and Gobzem! Please vote mode! On - 8, against -49, refraining from -6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U574	A similar story is about 15. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Gerhard. Partly supported, included in proposal 20.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U575	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U576	16. - the proposal from Members Stepanenko, Svecow, Scrape and Gobzem. The proposal 20 has been supported and incorporated.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U577	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U578	17. - Mr Valaina's proposal. The same subject. Supported by the 20th proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U579	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U580	18. - Mr Kirštein's proposal. It is a little more radical, so the Commission is not supported, but it is the same subject - about reputational risks. This proposal is therefore not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U581	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U582	19. - the proposal from Members Stepanenko, Svecow, Scrape and Gobzem. The same subject. Supported by the 20th proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U583	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U584	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is supported. And... Thus, the lowest common denominator for the assessment of the reputation is that a person is punished for committing an intentional crime against the State, property or administration, for committing an intentional crime within the economy or within the public authority service, or for committing a crime involving terrorism if the conviction has not been removed or deleted. Supported by the Commission. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U585	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U586	Proposal No 21. This is a new subject: the obligation to carry out customer research. That is the proposal from Member Gat Eglitis. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U587	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U588	The definitions of research activities. 22. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. It simply explains the process - the way in which the investigation is carried out. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U589	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U590	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal from Members Stepanenko, Svecow, Scrape and Gobzem. There is no support in the Commission. We offer an open common customer research tool service... that it is provided by the public and not by the private sector. Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U591	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U592	Yeah, thank you. Taking a careful look at the annotation that the Ministry of Finance has added by presenting this draft law to the Saeima, there is also a reference to the fact that the need to introduce an external research tool is linked to... and is in line with FATF's call on countries to assess the value of voluntary sharing of information that goes beyond FATF standards in order to improve the identification and prevention of potential risks to the funding of money laundering and terrorism and proliferation, and to adapt their laws and regulations to allow sharing of such information. Given that this proposal was merely a proposal for countries to assess rather than a requirement to introduce such an instrument, I also considered it too early to introduce such an instrument and that, instead of risking that private entities that might want to provide this service could also abuse information that would be available and could also be used for other purposes, it should be ensured that the State would undertake to set up a body that would ensure the provision of a common customer research tool service. Because, if provided by private individuals, this will inevitably lead to a situation in which a number of entities will wish to provide the service in question. This potential competition could lead to the possibility that competitors of the service provider concerned might have an interest in disclosing the information at their disposal without sufficient justification to keep the subscriber base of the customer research tool as high as possible. The country does not have and can not have its own business interests. This in turn would minimise the possible processing and disclosure of unauthorised information to third parties. Moreover, since the State does not have its own business interests, it will not be able to charge unduly high fees for the provision of a common customer research tool. In particular, the use of a common customer research tool would require legal entities to cover only the administrative costs necessary for the performance of such tool functions. As a result, such a tool would be cheaper and more accessible to law-holders. At the same time, the transfer of a tool to the State is explained by the fact that the creation of a tool by nature for the entities of the law is necessary for the implementation of the requirements set by the State for the prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorism and proliferation. Consequently, it would only be justified for the State itself to provide such joint customer research tools to the entities of the law, such as the transfer of tool functions to the Financial Intelligence Service. Moreover, the transfer of the functions of the tool to the Financial Intelligence Service would no longer create a need to provide in Section 7.2(9) of the Law a framework for the right of access to this information by the Financial Intelligence Service. Moreover, since the tool service would be provided by the State, there would be no need for a complex licensing process. Similarly, there are no grounds for imposing specific requirements on the State Data Inspectorate for the enforcement of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorism and Proliferation, as the obligations and rights of the State Data Inspectorate mentioned therein overlap with the requirements of the Law on the Processing of Personal Data and the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of personal data and on the free movement of such data. Therefore, please support my proposal by requiring that the State establish and maintain the provision of a single common customer research tool service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U593	Thank you. Does Mr Zakatistov want to add something more on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U594	Yeah, a couple things. Indeed, the organisation of work in the Commission was very detailed and pedant. And in the context of this proposal, international experience has been explored, and it is that nowhere else in the world this kind of risk analysis tool is national. Singapore had tried it for a short while, but quickly realized that it was not working. Consequently, in the light of international experience and uncertainty as to how it could function in Latvia, this proposal was not supported. Please do not support the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U595	Please call me! We will vote in favour 23. - the motion submitted by Members Stepanenko, Svecova, Sprūde and Gobzem! Please vote mode! For - 22, for - 54, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U596	24. - The proposal of the Saeima's Legal Bureau, which is good luck... editorial proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U597	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U598	25. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira, which is about the operation of the closed tool. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U599	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U600	26. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is also because of kindness. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U601	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U602	27. - the proposal from Members Stepanenko, Svecow, Scrape and Gobzem. The need for an open common customer research tool. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U603	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U604	28. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U605	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U606	29. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U607	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U608	30. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U609	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U610	31. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported by the Commission. Defines how the open and closed customer research tool will work.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U611	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U612	32. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U613	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U614	33. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U615	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U616	34. - Mr Kiršteina's proposal. There is no support in the Commission. There were misunderstandings about how the open customer research tool should work. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U617	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U618	35. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U619	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U620	36. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. On the regularity of the exchange of information. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U621	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U622	37. - the proposal from Members Stepanenko, Svecow, Scrape and Gobzem. The need for an open common customer research tool. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U623	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U624	38. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U625	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U626	39. - Mr Kiršteina's proposal. The responsibilities of the provider of the common customer research tool shall be specified. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U627	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U628	40. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U629	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U630	41. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U631	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U632	42. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. This is due to the way in which errors are deleted and corrected where they have appeared. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U633	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U634	43. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U635	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U636	44. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U637	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U638	45. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. The procedures for ascertaining the true beneficiary and verifying the eligibility of the identified beneficiary are described in what way this process is going on. Partly supported, included in proposal 46.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U639	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U640	46. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. The same question. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U641	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U642	47. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. The definition of a true beneficiary. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U643	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U644	48. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. The question of defining a true beneficiary continues. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U645	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U646	49. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U647	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U648	50. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. The obligations of the legal person to disclose its true beneficiary. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U649	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U650	51. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. The story and definition of the true beneficiary continues. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U651	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U652	52. - Mr. Eglitis' proposal. The supervision of transactions. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U653	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U654	Thank you. This is a reasonable proposal and provides that a client of a legal entity, whether a client of an accounting company, for example, is a client of a bank with which a transaction is terminated, for example, the bank says that your account is closed or such payment is not made, then such customers are entitled to lodge a complaint, so contact the supervisory and control authority of the relevant legal entity, asking to assess whether the decision taken by the legal entity to terminate or not initiate the transaction is justified. That is, I think a completely normal decision and gives clients a kind of protection mechanism also against the arbitrary of the entities. It is very important to note that this complaint mechanism in no way obliges the legal entity to act in this way or in this way. It is simply an opportunity, let us say, to complain to the supervisor of the subject of its law - whether it is the Financial and Capital Market Commission, or an association of accountants, or a notary... and so on. Simply if there are complaints, then a mechanism has been created. This is a very reasonable proposal. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U655	I closed the debate. Mr. Zakatistov, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U656	In the Commission, this issue has been examined in depth, and once again, I say it in depth. Thank you, Mr. Rancan. The relationship between a client and a bank is a civil relationship and the State cannot become an arbitrator between a person and a bank. The Data State Inspectorate explained the rights... opportunities for people now to defend their rights through existing legislation. This was rejected. Please reject the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U657	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 52. - Member Gata Eglitis's proposal! Please vote mode! For - 36, for - 39, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U658	53. - Mr. Eglitis' proposal. The proposal proposes that the Financial and Capital Market Commission develop guidelines on possible ways of obtaining additional information. Partly supported and included in proposal 54.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U659	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U660	54. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. The processes related to customer in-depth research. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U661	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U662	55. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. The customer identification procedure. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U663	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U664	56. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. For a simplified customer research system. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U665	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U666	Very long proposal, I'm sorry. 57. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U667	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U668	58. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U669	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U670	59. - Mr. Eglitis' proposal. On the rights and obligations of the Financial Intelligence Service. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U671	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U672	Thank you. Dear colleagues, This proposal is for the Financial Intelligence Service, when issuing its orders for freezing funds, to reflect in the motivation section more detailed considerations justifying the freezing of funds belonging to a particular person. It's so... because at present those Financial Intelligence orders contain only such formal grounds. Its motivation consists largely of general indications: ‘likely link’, ‘suspected’... And that in turn limits this person whose rights have been violated to defend property rights in the event of the freezing of funds, because he does not know now about which episodes, perhaps in the last 10 years or in the last 15 years... Which transaction, the transaction of which has now lighted up by those green lights in the Financial Intelligence Service... to which episode he must now produce defence materials, proof that his money is not illegally acquired. So, I think, a completely reasonable proposal, because we have to think... You know, we need to think about the situation that will arise soon, when many of these proposed criminal proceedings, and many of these Financial Intelligence orders, will be challenged in the European courts. Then Latvia will have problems, then we will have great penalties from Europe, most likely. Then I will call on Members to look, let us say, to blame either the Ministry of Finance or the Financial Intelligence Service. We must think as in a legal state, we must not call everyone thieves or money-launderers, or how. We need to think about how we also provide these basic human rights, because in all these cases, the state has a duty to prove that there have been no criminal offences. In other cases, if not proven, then there are problems for the country. It is then, for example, to pay the same six per cent of the apprehended money, frozen money from probably the state budget. Well, and these European litigations... I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U673	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U674	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! I have the impression that when I work with the Financial Intelligence Service... The Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs also has the impression that very often this algorithm, perhaps used by the Financial Intelligence Service, is trying to find and find some sort of violation (and it is about some dirty money), reminds... Let's assume that these algorithms are very often as bad as they are for Facebook. Recently, there was a very strong example of the use of algorithms in the social network. Māra Zālīte had written such strengthening words to Krišjānis Kariņš, and then this algorithm was translated as weed, which is translated as ‘the grass’ and translated as ‘the war’. Calling for violence. It was deleted from the Facebook, and there was a ban. Very similar cases, I am sure, have already taken place in the Financial Intelligence Service managed by Znotiņa. These are my thoughts. Here is the 59th proposal. Member Eglitis offers a simple, elementary request from the Financial Intelligence Service. In my opinion, dear Members, this service is not one of the Holy Grails that should not be asked, who should not be accused and who lives in some particularly protected reservoir, and then simply the money is frozen to the right and left. In particular, the Member proposes that the Financial Intelligence Authority order on freezing funds should reflect a detailed justification underlying the order issued by the Financial Intelligence Authority. I think it is very logical for the Financial Intelligence Service to also explain what a person is likely to be criminal. That's the same thing as the previous... Gatis Eglitis talked about the 52nd proposal, where the votes just split 39 against 39, that it would be possible to find out why the bank shuts the account for you, that you have the right to know. In my opinion, this artificial plot of secrecy, on the pretext of security at the level of the mega, does not withstand any criticism. The Financial Intelligence Service is maintained for taxpayers' money. In my opinion, to ask for an explanation at least in the explanatory text - not in some kind of copy/paste references, but in certain cases - is only logical and consistent. Consequently, I would ask Members to support this proposal 59. I am also pleased that there is an appeal mechanism... it has already been tried to incorporate that you can appeal against a possible decision by the Financial Intelligence Service, well, the wrong decision, because there has not been such a possibility so far. So let's start promising, colleagues! I would ask for support for this explanatory element that the Financial Intelligence Service should provide some kind of more comprehensive solution, because this algorithm, which I have understood, as Mrs Znotiņa herself presented in the Commission, is bypassing. And it is very possible to draw similarities with the support text of Māra Zālīte and Krišjānis Kariņš, where hate speech has been discovered, even though the idea was completely different. Thank you. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U675	We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U676	Thank you. Colleagues! I also ask to support Mr Eglitis's proposal and to think about what policies we have accepted, supported and implemented over the last two years, with what consequences, economic consequences, it has already led. In my previous speech, I quoted a quote from the Fiscal Discipline Council on the economic outcome. What shocks me (but perhaps it only seems shocking to me) is Mrs Znotiņa's commentary on Delfos. I am going to do this now and ask you to think about it because all of us, in general, or the majority of us who will now vote against Mr Eglitis's proposal, have unfortunately also allowed us to continue to use such instruments. And that's it. I quoted from Mrs. Znotiņa's statement, Delfos: "Do you really think that certain judges who take decisions on the arrest of property... investigators, heads of investigative institutions, prosecutors and judges – after they are looking at confiscation cases, everyone is so united in their intention to bring the Latvian budget to exhaustion?” Then I have a question, what is the purpose of all these activities, what is happening now? Supplement the state budget by implementing confiscation and using this Law and other laws and regulations on the cover for the fight against criminally acquired funds? Think and support, please, Mr Eglitis' proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U677	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U678	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I would like to say more about both Member Eglitis's proposal and, in general, about this whole context, including what is happening in our country behind this financial sector's repair slogan. So for us, the Financial Intelligence Service has decided to freeze several hundred million euros if I am not mistaken now. What it is important to understand here is that this is not about money that has started to travel through our country or to our country after all those decisions have been taken on capital repairs in the financial sector and so on. This is mainly about the so-called heritage, that is to say, the funds that were entrusted to us by those foreign entrepreneurs, whether in any other way or not, when our public and private sectors, above all, of course, the private sector, actively promoted themselves for money transit services. I will draw your attention to the fact that those political parties who were in power at that time are the same parties who are now talking about financial repairs and the fact that there is no room in Latvia for so-called Eastern dirty money and so on - the same parties, once again, which actually covered all the financial transit of money as it was there years ago. That's point one, colleagues. How does the freezing of this money happen? In fact, as you say, without investigation and trial. That's enough with suspicion. Neither the Financial Intelligence Service nor the police need to prove what it was about, where it was a crime, who was the victim and so on. Thus, the mere suspicion and the fact that the owner of the money cannot prove it is enough for a completely unspecific crime. In practice, it often happens... I ask for the speaking time to be joined up.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U679	The delivery times are combined.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U680	In practice, it happens that often, so to say, the city speaks that a foreign cash owner requires evidence not only of the history and origin of the business, but of a total of 10-20 years in advance. When, for example, he presents the documents... It could be on thousands of pages and, of course, it will not be in Latvian, because its business activities do not take place in Latvia, he is told that it is not in the state language - please submit it in the state language. He starts to translate it, they're thousands, if not tens of thousands of pages. While he translates, he is informed that your time (as long as there - 10 or 15 days) has passed - all, your money has been arrested. So there is absolutely no rule of law here! Therefore, colleagues, the consequences of what is happening now under the cover of this financial repair - its consequences are catastrophic to the image of our country for decades ahead. Disasters to our reputation, to the image of our country! Go on, colleagues. And now it's the most important thing. If we ask a question - with what will this end? And here you can sense, including from Mrs Znotiņa's statements, interviews and so that she thinks and tries to convince you that all this will end with the confiscation of hundreds of millions and all that money going into the state budget, where you, dear colleagues, can handle this money, you are being deceived, colleagues. If you take a closer look at what international institutions like the World Bank, which developed a conceptual framework for everything that is now being followed by the Financial Intelligence Service, then you will see clearly that those rules say: if the country in which the crime has occurred demands this money back, then we are obliged to give it back. So what is going to happen after all this, so to say, the Bachanalia, is what has already happened to Ukraine recently. You may remember when very little money was also seized from a crime that seems to have happened... and as if money was washed from Ukraine, Ukraine requested this money back and also received it. Then imagine that after all this, let's assume, the Financial Intelligence Service will confiscate, the police will arrest... It will confiscate money, saying that it is a crime, let us assume, in Russia. And the Russian Government will say that if we already have a crime with us, then please return the money to us... and Belarus, and so on. Then I fear that what will come to an end, all those scandals and so on, is that this money will be returned to the governments of Russia, Belarus and other eastern countries, and it will come to the budget of these countries. It doesn't have to be searched far. For example, perhaps you remember, colleagues, that based on the information that is likely to have been provided... our government... The de facto President of Belarus, Lukashenko, has begun to prosecute his political opponents. That's just one example. So I call on you, colleagues, to think seriously about what is going on under this slogan, and I call for this very modest and sensible proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U681	The floor in the debate for Member Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U682	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Of course, I will find it difficult to change the views that have arisen over time. But I can only say that the Financial Intelligence Service is doing its job, that Latvia is trying to get out of the pit, where we have successfully ended up for many years. And we don't have to think that we've improved the facts, but that we trust the world's financial institutions. There is still much to be done. We can, of course, consider every occasion, seeing that there may have been something not like that, but it has not been the case in previous years. At present, its institutions, its staff, are fighting for us as a country to regain our reputation in the global financial market. In finance is a global business, it is not an open-air museum question, it is not an open-air museum cash question. Here is the question of a global business in which we participate. And if we were to participate, we were to behave as well. If we assume that we can operate according to our regulations, we will not be good. Colleagues, I call for this proposal to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U683	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U684	Colleagues, we would be very happy to follow the rules of Jēkabs Street, which are known to Mr Bondara, but are not known to the other Members who are not included in this secret club. We do not know what these are about such interesting rules. In fact, by nature, the Saeima as the legislator... The family has to follow the highest standards and do not go down to the level of street gangs, so I would really like to know more about the connection between the words. But if we are talking about Mrs Znotiņa's mandate, then I should like to answer some of my fellow Members' questions when I join in calling for support for such a proposal to explain these reasons in a motivated way. Perhaps they were rhetorical, but I have also heard Mrs. Znotiņa advises, for example, sworn lawyers, and very many lawyers who have attended these refresher courses can confirm that Mrs. Znotiņa is very zealous in her work, working very enthusiasticly and sometimes too enthusiastic, because a few years ago, presenting the work of her department and consulting lawyers on how they should study their clients through Google, through... I'm going to quote now, "Chuis, Nuchs and the Pony"... I don't know how to translate it into Latvian, but so Mrs. Znotiņa said. So Mrs Znotiņa explained that this year (it was several years ago) she had frozen 100 million so-called dirty money, but next year she had a plan to freeze 300 million. So I understand that the idea is precisely about quantity, not really about investigation, about clarifying the circumstances. There is the question of achieving some five-year plans here, and that, in my opinion, is really absolutely wrong, it is the wrong approach. Perhaps, if it was, an exaggeration on the part of Mrs Znotiņa, although we see that this is not at all an exaggeration, she has achieved her objectives, but the question is exactly... If, for example, a police officer sets an objective for himself to collect gardens, no matter what, for which amount, for example, a million, he will go and cover them up, but whether people will then show the policeman that he has not been right when appealing against them - that is a big question. Therefore, colleagues, I very much, very much call on all of us, and also on the opposition, to get along with all of them, really voting and voting in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U685	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U686	President of the sitting, honourable colleagues! I too tend to support this proposal because it is... Mr Bondara has rightly mentioned that this is about the trust of financial institutions, international trust. That is very right. And looking for this international trust, we have to find a balance of trust also from business, from business. If there is a situation that now, not to mention the big companies, which are many million companies that leave Latvia... We see that these multinationals find their place in Lithuania, Poland, other Member States of the European Union and continue to operate... I think we are losing very much in this balance of confidence and competitiveness at that point. There are those small events that are, well, the freezing of money, and there are these big cases where entrepreneurs do not understand what has really happened. The figures in the hundreds of millions that are frozen in Latvia are mentioned. Trust in entrepreneurs must also be built. The entrepreneur has the right to know what, why, he or she is frozen. Global, large companies with hundreds... which have millions or other volumes of turnovers, I think not to risk your business by opening accounts in a country where you can simply get one day on suspicions - on suspicions! - to close the account without explanation if there are no such problems in other neighbouring countries. But what's happening right now... I think that there have already been a number of businessmen who have already come to my fellow Members on the following issues. One is that they are large entrepreneurs - whether they are farmers, or they are transiters, or a variety of non-governmental organisations that pay attention to these issues, giving concrete examples - but now they are also small entrepreneurs who are simply not aware of the closure of accounts. They cannot be definitively described as large companies. They are hundreds of thousands of turnovers. In a way, they can also understand why such a situation has developed. A really exaggerated approach by the Financial Intelligence Service on these issues... Because how else do I appreciate the person who runs this organization, who can afford to say that we have a whole region where a lot of people are involved in criminal activities by mentioning... In my view, it is very insulting to these people who are trying to survive in some way. Go, see the farthest corners of how people live. If it starts with different... In addition to all the problems of life, the challenges, which are the challenges, are starting to come from the financial institutions to ask for a variety of reports - I think colleagues, it is a nightmare and unacceptable. I, too, am among those Members who believe that this repair of financial capital must be subject to some kind of audit, because in this desire to fight... As Mr Bondara rightly said, in the fight for international reputation, we forget about the interests of entrepreneurs, some meaningful interests, about the desire of entrepreneurs for a normal business environment. Let not only the civil servants, the various bureaucratic bodies that crush them on a daily basis, but also these financial cooperation partners, without which they cannot even live... They too begin to plague them and to put them in the ground. In the final, people just get away from... either leave the country or simply if those businesses are smaller, go completely in the shadow economy. And there's a big question for Mrs. Znotiņa to get them back. Here we asked her to work, but let her explain why she made such decisions. I call for support. Thank you. ( The sound is broken.)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U687	The name to the Member is Att Zakaitistov. I hope that (The Sound Break) ... can be heard. Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U688	I hear you. I appeal to my colleagues in the Saeima to understand that we are going to see Amendment 60 right now. Proposal 60 concerns the procedure for challenging orders from the Financial Intelligence Service. It is supported by the Commission. Yes, I hear about individual defects. Yes, I hear that some people are affected by financial reconstruction... the redesign of the system. However, what I hear is only isolated cases. As legislator, we need to think about the system as a whole and the systemic approach to the decision. Please support the 60th proposal, where the system states how the order challenge procedure takes place. This is not a question of Mrs Znotiņa's temperament; this is not a question of individuals. This is a question of the system. And the situation of Latvia and the functioning of the Financial Intelligence Service have been systematically evaluated and recognized for our benefit. FATF, that is, Financial Action Task Force, the experts have looked at and wrote letters to the commission, systematically analysing how financial intelligence takes place in Latvia. Despite, perhaps, Mrs Znotiņa, or whatever, there are no shortcomings in the system. What we have learned - and this is included in proposal 60 - is that the scope for appeal is and is also, in some way, defined. As legislator, we need to look at systemic aspects and rise above ad hominem attacks on individual people for their temperament. And in this regard, it was... In the Commission there was a full consensus from industry experts, from the Prosecutor General's Office, from the Bank of Latvia, from the Ministry of Finance, from the industry association, that the existing system should be improved by appealing, but it is an effective way to go ahead as recipients of financial system services. Please let us rise above individual insults or individual displeasure, which, unfortunately, also appeared during the commission negotiations... and, well, relatively emotional speeches were on all sides. This is not a question of individuals, this is not a question of who likes or does not like it. This is a question about the financial system of Latvia, and its financial system is now recognised as good we are and must be complemented by an order of the intelligence service to challenge the order, on which we will decide immediately in the 60th proposal. It was supported by the Commission. Please reject this, well, slightly emotional offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U689	The name of the Member, Gatim Eglitis, in the debate for the second time. Mr Eglišs, you have the floor in the debate for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U690	Thank you. Well, you know, I don't really like hypocrisy, and I'm gonna explain where I see it. So the Prime Minister has, in particular, taken on this flag of major repairs of the financial sector, and I see all kinds of contradictions there. I'll see it quickly. First. We still don't really know what happened to the Prime Minister's family, let's say, Skolas iela 2. Who was sold? Why was a special offshore service used? Was there no optimisation of taxes and so on? Second. Our Finance Minister has been Vice President of Trasta Commercial Bank for three years, which in Riga is very, very bad praise for these issues that we are looking at today. Third. Valdis Dombrovskis was the head of government for a very long time, and it was during his time that the whole business of non-residents flourished. About it, by the way, was also written some time ago by an investment journalist, and Jemberga was very worried about it to be read by someone in Latvia, but those journalists had come to the conclusion - then what, Valdis Dombrovskis, in Europe, you say that we are all bad here, but in your time this business here also flourished. And yes, the Head of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission also brought a lot of known Antonovs to Latvia... Now I see hypocrisy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U691	The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time. ( Pause) So the technical break is 15 minutes. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U692	Honourable Members! We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. So on the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and Proliferation”. Debate on proposal 59 The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U693	Thank you. Colleagues, I ask you to support this proposal. A little reflection of what Mr Zakatistova said, as well as of another colleague who opposes, is that this proposal is just systemic. It seems to me that the misunderstanding and the problem of which the financial system is converted into a capital repair and which is to blame for the fact that we really have both lost investments (including as a result of unthinking and chaotic behaviour) and competitiveness have fallen for a number of blocks, let us say so. It must be understood that the economy does not exist separately from the environment as a whole. Access to the financial sector, an understanding that processes are transparent and understandable, is a very important component. And this proposal merely states that the person against whom an administrative act is issued and whose property rights are restricted has the right to explain and justify his or her decision. Consequently, rather than giving individual and subjective opinions as a basis for supporting this proposal, it is the systemic approach and responsibility, both before the public and respect for human rights. Accordingly, if they are obliged to do so, they must know what they are responsible for. Therefore, in my view, this proposal is logical, understandable, systemic and makes the rules of the game clearer and understandable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U694	The name to Member Artus Neimins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U695	Colleagues! This proposal is indeed, as one of the speakers said, a very modest and calm proposal. It's nothing completely new, I don't know, tactic or anything. It is simply being asked to explain very clearly what it is about. It's not rocket science, it's right to know your rights, not that someone in such a black palm tree just shuts your money with a magic stick. That's one. Just explain... Give me the opportunity to explain. Martin Bondar, I listened and I couldn't believe again what you were saying. You managed the bank yourself! You managed the bank yourself! This proposal seeks clarification on what the possible infringement is. Marty Bondar, whatever... from which I would hear it, but not from the former, well, the bank manager. This is a very responsible and great item. For Mrs. Znotins. I don't even know where the end came from. Perhaps a great deal of respect in this case - the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and Proliferation" - is to talk only about one person, but unfortunately this person is also now the person responsible, who will in principle be making tomorrow, in order to build up yesterday. At least one year later, Mrs Znotiņa has the power to act within the Financial Intelligence Service... as a post so far. Colleagues, I beg... and I only speak in order for more Members to join now, because before I started to speak, there were 75, now there are 82. Therefore, I would really ask you to support this proposal in order to be able to understand what is then, let us assume, an account closed or the money arrested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U696	Thank you. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U697	I have to agree with Mr. Kaimiņš that, to some extent, Mr Bondara should know very well how the financial system works. But, where I can't agree, that Mārtiņš Bondars is bad to run the bank. There's public evidence there, however, of how it's all over there. So it's clear that maybe that knowledge is missing, and what you say sometimes led him to despair there... But in this case, of course, this proposal is very adequate. If I had made a proposal, then it would be, let us say, much longer or so tighter. Here, it is just pointed out that there is a need to provide a detailed justification. I think that is normal. I'm even surprised. Happily, I haven't... I have only had to prove, of course, that I have to bring all kinds of documents, send them to the banks, prove that I, as a member of the Saeima, am not an elephant, justify each of my own movements. Well, everyone's probably used to it. But, for example, when money is frozen, I wonder at how a person can appeal afterwards if he does not know what reason he has been, he does not even know what that decision is about, an administrative act has been made. Person says: I appeal because I think I've been a good person or a good company for the past 15 years. But it is clear that this is not the principle of equal competition, if you could say so, in the administrative process, because a person needs to know what to focus on when it makes an appeal. If there were any detailed justification, not one standard sentence, that would be very good. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U698	The name to Member Martin Bondar for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U699	President of the Saeima, honourable colleagues, honourable colleagues! I call for the rejection of proposal 59. Yesterday I was in the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application, I wrote an application about one of my colleagues. I was told by the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications that they have a lot of work, you don't have to write. But again, a lie comes from this tall tribunal. My colleagues lie. And I should write an application already, but this time I will save your time, I will not write another application to save your time. Instead of being my colleagues who continue to lie care about the education sector, the traffic sector, the justice sector, they want to lead the rest of the country because they don't have enough... because they don't know how to deal with what they have been entrusted with. Just as the world is fighting the community, we have to fight the mellows at the Saeima. I hope that we will win this blue pandemic. Please reject Amendment 59. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U700	Colleagues, I really ask for mutual relations to be dealt with by the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications, or in negotiations with each other, but not from the parliamentary troupe, and for a debate on proposal 59. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U701	When I listen to this debate, I understand that this proposal has behind us, which is being fought for. I would call for these to be separated and for them to look, however, at the systemic contribution that this proposal will make. I think that the systemic contribution to this proposal is important and important so that we really create the right balance for this monitoring system and make it more responsible. Consequently, for my part, I will also call on my colleagues to support this proposal. However, I would ask Mr Bondara to explain - what you thought it was that this country... It is wrong if it depends on the decision made by Jacob’s street. Do you offer a coup d'état? Do you propose the repeal of the Constitution because, in my opinion, it is on the street of Jēkaba that there is a place to decide on all these issues. In my opinion, you are completely absent from reality in your coalition of power if you are no longer... Consider it an unacceptable principle. I therefore call for more responsibility when debating this, for my own words and for supporting this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U702	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U703	Yeah, colleagues. The second speech by Member Gata Eglitis, in fact, also clearly demonstrated the debate that took place at the committee meeting. They were personal and attacking. What I want to say is that this bill is not about Mrs Znotiņa's temperament. It was listed... Prime Minister's family... This is not about the Minister of Finance or Valdis Dombrovskis. This is about our country's financial system in the future. We have to decide systematically. Well, if the Financial Intelligence Service... reminds someone of the situation with Māra Zaalīte, it is not enough reason for us to decide on the system as a whole, lightly, as it were. Please support the 60th, next, proposal, but reject this, please, because it is based on personal trouble and is not systematic. This proposal must be rejected. Please reject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U704	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 59. - MEP Eglitis's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 45, for - 38, for - 3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U705	60. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Provision shall be made for the dispute settlement order of the Financial Intelligence Service. Supported by the Commission. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U706	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U707	Thank you, colleagues, for the previous vote. I will briefly outline their history for this proposal. So I had also tabled a proposal of a similar nature to that of the second reading, referring precisely to the problem that the Financial Intelligence Authority's orders do not, in substance, work. The appeal mechanism is as if it is, but it doesn't work in reality. There are several considerations. At the meeting of the Commission, I am there, say, “slaughter” and “spring” both the Financial Intelligence Service, the Ministry of Finance and the Financial and Capital Market Commission, all. All in turn! I know that the American Embassy has a letter from one service, when the Latvian political elite complains about these proposals. But what happened later is interesting. General Staukan came to the Commission and said: you know Eglytis is right, there's a problem for us, we don't have this redress mechanism working for us. And what he did - the Prosecutor General's Office brought and laid down this version of the 60th proposal and said: here's our proposal. I would therefore like to express my public thanks to the Prosecutor-General for his constructive, reasonable action and assistance in shaping this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U708	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U709	Colleagues! This is the Commission's proposal. This is really about appeal procedures. It's something new in this whole thing, and it's good that it is. It is good that Mr Stuwan has joined this topic and has supported it. But I would like to draw attention to the attention of all Members, to what I think is very important nuances. So the situation is as follows: we look at the second paragraph of Article 34, which is proposal 60. Complainant... The situation is as follows: ‘The complainant shall address the court, but shall submit it to the Financial Intelligence Service, which, together with the material on which the contested order was based, shall forward it to the court within three working days. The lodging of a complaint shall not suspend the execution of the order. The Financial Intelligence Service shall, in the cases provided for by law, notify the court thereof by sending information to the investigating authorities.’ On the other hand, the fifth part says: “If during the examination of the complaint the judge finds that the complaint submitted does not comply with the requirements of this Law or a criminal proceedings have been initiated in connection with an order issued by the Financial Intelligence Service and an arrest has been imposed by means of means, the complaint shall be left unconstitutional.” The problem is the following: how is it in nature? In nature, the Financial Intelligence Service - we say the Financial Intelligence Service, I think Znotiņa - demands to arrest, freeze some funds for a company. Let's say the prosecutor gives the green light, well, yes, of course, there is a requirement, OK, okay. The financial intelligence service freezes these funds and sends them all to the police. In the police, when the case is received, it is simply automatically made a criminal case. When it is made criminal, it automatically goes to the court where the judge receives a complaint, which is already a criminal case, which cannot be heard, and the complaint is not accepted. Colleagues, this is the second reading. I hope that, for the third reading, this problem will be eliminated and will not be eliminated. The fact that the decisions of the Financial Intelligence Service can already be appealed against - that is very good, but the fact that the draft law contains such still, in my opinion, still sloppy parts (I draw attention to the second and fifth paragraphs... Maybe lawyers can join here, what is here) creates such a precedent, because all the things that go out of the police... Well, I can't imagine anyone who's not in the vault of the criminal case right now. So, in fact, the Financial Intelligence Service immediately washes its hands in good faith, the funds are frozen, the case is returned to the police, the police immediately criminalise, and give it back. And that train has been working for a long time. Such a train is also the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau, the prosecutor's office, the court. The same is true of the Financial Intelligence Service, the police, the court. The previous responsibility is taken away. There's a chance to fix it here. So for the third reading, the proposals will be in this case. I'll vote... I do not even know whether I will vote 'yes' or 'no' now, because in order to leave a mark on the protocol and this verbatim report on the fact that there is a problem here, I call for support. But for the third reading together, I hope we will find a solution, because there is a hole here. So... And I ask the rapporteur, just on behalf of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U710	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U711	No vote required. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U712	Members are in favour. The vote is therefore requested. Please call me! We will vote for 60. - the proposal submitted by the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U713	We are moving to the section on the supervision of legal entities. 62. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Mr Gerhard. Partly supported and included 7. - the Commission's proposal. And the 7th proposal has already been discussed, so that...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U714	Wait, wait, wait, Mr. Zakatistov, 61.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U715	61, yes, I'm sorry, I jumped over. 61. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technical nature. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U716	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U717	62. - as I mentioned, Mr Gerhard's proposal. Partly supported. The proposal 7 was discussed.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U718	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U719	63. - The proposal from Member Gats Eglitis. The Commission is supported. But in fact, there is such a strangeness in that proposal. The legal entity is internal companies which within the company... companies can each other... cannot be excluded from financing... And this is only about the supervision of the entities of the law. Thus, the wedding is such that the law obliges companies to comply with the provisions of the law internally by carrying out capital companies... daughters... Mothers... transfers. But it cannot be controlled by the State Revenue Service. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U720	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 63. - MEP Eglitis's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 43, for - 14, for - 6. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U721	Moving to risk assessment. 64. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Technical nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U722	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U723	65. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Related to the assessment of reputational risks. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U724	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U725	66. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. Associated with benevolence. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U726	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U727	67. - a proposal from the Minister of Finance, Mr Reira. The arrangements and content of the mutual exchange of information shall be defined. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U728	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U729	68. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U730	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U731	69. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U732	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U733	70. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U734	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U735	71. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U736	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U737	72. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U738	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U739	73. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U740	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U741	74. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Explain the amount of the fine for infringements as provided for in the Directive. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U742	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U743	75. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Also related to fines. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U744	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U745	76. - The proposal from Member Gats Eglitis. Also related to fines. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U746	Member Gatis Eglitis has asked for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 76. - MEP Eglitis's proposal! Please, let's vote! About - 28, against - 34, abstaining - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U747	77. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Procedures for the application of sanctions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U748	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U749	78. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U750	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U751	79. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. The flow of information related to the imposition of sanctions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U752	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U753	80. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. On the operation of the common customer research tool. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U754	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U755	81. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U756	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U757	82. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. On transitional provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U758	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U759	83. - a proposal from the committee responsible. On transitional provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U760	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U761	84. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. On transitional provisions. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U762	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U763	85. - a proposal from the committee responsible. On transitional provisions. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U764	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U765	86. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. On transitional provisions. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U766	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U767	87. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. On transitional provisions. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U768	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U769	88. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. On transitional provisions. Partly supported, included in proposal 89.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U770	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U771	89. - a proposal from the committee responsible. On transitional provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U772	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U773	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U774	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and Proliferation”! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U775	The deadline for submitting proposals is 13 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U776	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 13 May this year. On the agenda - reports by the Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. Thus, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications has submitted its own proposal – the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application “On the Elimination of the Vaccination Bureau” by 17 759 Latvian citizens”. Please enable the procedure section. So it's already turned on. Are Members opposed to examining this own-initiative proposal at this parliamentary sitting? If there are objections, please apply to the scheme. Members have not applied, so we can consider this draft decision at this sitting of the Saeima. On the agenda - draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application “On the eradication of the Vaccination Bureau” of 17 759 Latvian citizens”. Member Edgars Kronbergs on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U777	Hello, honorable chair and colleagues! On 15 March 2021, the Saeima received a collective application from 17,759 Latvian citizens “On the Elimination of Vaccination Bureau”, which asked for the abolition of the Vaccination Project Office. On 14 April this year, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application heard a representative of the initiative applicants, who pointed out that vaccination offices in neighbouring countries were not established that the vaccination situation was better there than in Latvia. According to the applicant, the vaccination process had to be organized within the resources and functions of the Ministry of Health and its subordinate institutions, without any additional costs from the state budget for the salaries of office employees. The applicants did not support the reorganisation of the vaccination project office, but maintained the request for the collective signatories to remove the office. On 21 April this year, the Commission heard a representative of family doctors who pointed to the uncertainty and unpredictableness of the process of organising vaccination. The representative reported that the work of family doctors has so far been difficult, as the planned supply of vaccines has not taken place. The representative of the Ministry of Health reminded that the Saeima Vaccination Project Office as a separate entity has already been dissolved and that the staff of the Vaccination Project Office continues work within the framework of the National Health Service. In the opinion of the Ministry of Health, therefore, further progress of the initiative should be supported only in the context of improving the vaccination process. Having concluded that improvements in the vaccination process require further discussion, the Commission decided to refer this Latvian citizens' initiative to the Social and Labour Commission for further evaluation and prepared a draft decision of the Saeima “On the way forward of the Latvian citizens’ collective application “On the eradication of the Vaccination Bureau””. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U778	Thank you. Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application “On the eradication of the Vaccination Bureau” of 17 759 Latvian citizens”! Please, let's vote! For - 88, for - no, for - 1. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, The commission of mandates, ethics and applications has submitted its own proposal – the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 414 Latvian citizens “On the right of pregnant women to free epidural anaesthesia””. Are Members opposed to examining this own-initiative proposal at this parliamentary sitting? If there are objections, colleagues, please apply. There is no objection by Members. We can consider the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 414 Latvian citizens “On the right of pregnant women to free epidural anaesthesia”. Member Edgars Kronbergs on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U779	Good afternoon, colleagues! On 26 March 2021, the Saeima received a collective application from 10,414 Latvian citizens “On the right of pregnant women to free epidural anaesthesia”, which asked to change legislation so that epidural anaesthesia at birth would be a state-paid service. On 21 April this year, the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications listened to the authors of the initiative, which stressed that this service is available free of charge to women in neighbouring countries and other European countries and called for solutions to problems hindering the free provision of the service. Invited experts - the head of Riga Stradins University Department of Embryology and Gynaecology, the main gynecologist of Riga Gynecolo, as well as the president of the Latvian Association of Anaesthesiologists and Reanimatologists - supported the initiative, at the same time pointing to the main problem, namely the lack of an anesthesiologist who would be competent to perform epidural anaesthesia in the country. The President of the Latvian Medical Association stressed that the current situation with the lack of availability of specialists and state-paid services indicates a lack of funding for healthcare in general, and called for increased funding for health care in the state budget. The Ministry of Health and the National Health Service supported the initiative and confirmed their readiness to address the issue of funding, the availability of anesthesiologists, and their pay to enable women to provide free epidural analgesia.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U780	Anesthesia. Anesthesia!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U781	Anesthesia, I'm sorry. The Commission decided to refer this Latvian citizens’ initiative to the Social and Labour Commission for further evaluation and prepared draft decision of the Saeima “On the way forward of the 10,414 Latvian citizens’ collective application on the right of pregnant people to free epidural anaesthesia”. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U782	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application “On the right of pregnant women to free epidural anaesthesia” of 10 414 Latvian citizens”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On the way forward of the 13 199 collective application of Latvian citizens “Vacation still to be voluntary””. I am sorry, colleagues, so the Bureau's report on this own-initiative proposal. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications has submitted the draft decision “On the way forward of the 13 199 collective application of Latvian citizens “Vacation must remain voluntary”. Please apply to the section of the procedure for Members who object to the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this sitting of the Saeima. Members have not applied. The draft decision can therefore be examined. Member Edgars Kronbergs on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U783	Once again, fellow Members, good afternoon! On March 16, 2021, the Saeima received a collective application from 13 199 Latvian citizens “Vacation must remain voluntary”. The initiative requested the creation of a set of legal provisions that would prevent discrimination between workers in the public, municipal and private sectors on grounds of the presence or absence of the vaccine. On 14 April this year, the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Application listened to the author of the initiative, who expressed the view that compulsory vaccination should not be imposed, but if so, a referendum should be held. He called for the initiative to go further and expressed his willingness to state the reasons in the committee responsible. On 21 April this year, it continued its collective assessment of the application and heard representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Health, Paula Stradiņš Clinical University Hospital, the Immigrant Surveillance Service and the State Council of Immunisation, which stressed that vaccination is still voluntary, while pointing out the need for vaccination in certain occupational groups to be able to ensure that the necessary tasks and responsibilities were fulfilled. Experts called for legislation to regulate the work of people who are not vaccinated. The Commission concluded that further discussion was needed and decided to refer this initiative to the Social and Labour Commission for further consideration of the Latvian citizens' initiative. The Commission prepared a draft decision of the Saeima “On the way forward for a collective application by 13 199 Latvian citizens “Vacation must remain voluntary”. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U784	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U785	Dear colleagues, It is clear that it is also likely that those who hope, in silence, that vaccinated people will have more rights than unvaccinated people will vote on the referral of this decision to the Commission. This is, in essence, evidence of the fact that vaccination is a tree with two ends... The voluntary nature of vaccination is a tree with two ends, because, as if it were not to force anyone to vaccinate, which, of course, is absolutely unimaginable in our current circumstances and in our society, there are, of course, other means of action to force a person to vaccinate. We have also seen this in various situations, such as jobs. If a person chooses not to vaccinate for his personal reasons, then there are often situations where he has to deal with the misunderstandings of colleagues, with the misunderstanding of management. The raising of this kind of topic in the workplace every day, of course, creates tension and makes the person end up still... Those who cannot cope with such a negative strain are finally making a decision on vaccination, which, in our opinion - I think, too, my many colleagues believe it - is unacceptable. I would suggest to those colleagues who also respect the freedom of the individual, the free choice of the individual, that we encourage, together with us, amendments to the Labour Law, which would prohibit this type of mobbing, discrimination of this kind on the basis of a person's medical choice. Yes, we have heard a lot about security, collective immunity, the common good of society and other such loud slogans, but we must not forget human rights, we must not forget the individual's right to choose his or her way. You discussed euthanasia very recently, and these arguments that were... the person has the right to choose what she wants. But in this case, we will hear the opposite arguments that man is no longer an individual being; it must be part of society, of all vaccinees. Consequently, I believe that we should not only simply, well, as a slogan, support this incentive, but also take real action to protect those people who choose not to receive vaccination. What is more, we have read, and we can see almost every day, in a variety of reports, that also those people who choose to vaccinate are sadly getting infected with this virus and also carrying it. Therefore, those arguments that sound very often and that try to sort people - vaccinated people are now the first class people - and those unvaccinated are those that we should hold somewhere behind the fence - are absolutely unacceptable. Because we see that, unfortunately, these experimental vaccines also come together - which, unfortunately, are experimental vaccines! - have not been fully elucidated or have not been fully elucidated: how long this immunity can last, how quickly a person can become infected again with this covide virus and so on, and so on. That is why we would really call on our fellow Members to take the freedom of individuals seriously and not to get involved in sorting people into the bad and good. This can end very badly. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U786	I closed the debate. In the name of the commission, what is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U787	Nothing will be explained on behalf of the Commission. Request to support the decision taken by the Commission
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U788	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the 13 199 collective application of Latvian citizens “Vacation still to be voluntary””! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, Members Juris Jušaks, Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla, Marija Golubeva, Inese Voika, Andrejs Klementjevs, Regina Ločmele, Ivans Ribakovs, Linda Medne, Krišjānis Feldmans, Anita Muižniece and others have submitted their own proposal – draft decision on the Armenian genocide declaration. Here is a section on procedure. Are Members opposed to including this draft decision in this parliamentary sitting? Several Members have applied. Please turn on the microphone for Richard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U789	Dear President of the Saeima. Because... view this draft decision... within the last few months... I would simply like to point out that the Foreign Affairs Commission has started to look at this issue at the Foreign Affairs Commission, which has a number of meetings, meetings with historians, foreign diplomats, academics...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U790	Colleagues, in this case... in this case, only the objections.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U791	There is an objection, yes, against the inclusion of the Saeima in today's sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U792	Yeah, no motivation... So there are objections. Consequently, the draft decision is not included in this sitting of the Saeima. The vote now needs to be taken on the agenda for the next sitting of the Saeima. One Member may speak in favour, one against and one against, on the agenda of the next sitting of the Saeima. So Mr. Cole, I understand that he has applied to speak against. ( Pause) I understand that Member Money has applied to speak against. Please turn on the microphone for Roman Money.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U793	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I think Mr. Kola could not join because he is currently outside Latvia - on a mission mission, but I would ask you not to look at this issue next week, because I believe that the document that has been prepared is incomplete. I have a number of questions and... by the authors of the document. I mean, if there is no doubt about historical evidence, then I do not see any historical evidence attached here, which is really carefully analysed, on which historians would work to find out these tragic events that took place during World War I in the Osman Empire. This is really... It would be worth initiating, even for the Latvian Parliament, that historians – both Armenian historians, Turkish historians and other international... Foreign historians - meet together and analyse archive materials to arrive at conclusions about what happened then in the Osman Empire. I personally have a lot of questions - why... The Armenians lived very well with the Turks, with other nationalities in the Osman Empire, the Armenians were in charge of government positions, military positions, and other leading positions were also held directly from the Armenian side. I do not in any way believe that this is a religious issue where Christians and Muslims came into contact, because the Turks, Azerbaijanis, who are Muslims, lived very well and still live very well with Georgians. So what happened before these tragic events in 1915? I would like to see such an analysis, which would really involve historians from different countries. I understand that the Turkish side has called for this matter to be addressed, but has not expected support from Armenia to really analyse these events, because there were also many fallen on the Turkish side before the tragic events that affected the Armenians in the same year. Armenian units... Armoured... was armed from the Russian side and fought accordingly, or tried to build up its own country, which the Russians had promised. I would like to see and hear such an analysis. In order for a country to be accused of genocide as a national, I would really like to see such an analysis. At present, I do not know any such proceedings, any court decision that would have been made on this issue. Also reference to the United Nations Convention (1948), which states that genocide can only be declared by a judgment... In my opinion, we must strive to do our utmost in this region... to normalise relations between Armenia, Turkey, Azerbaijan and other neighbouring countries so that they can be on the road of friendly relations between neighbouring countries; to ensure that trade between Armenia and Turkey is conducted in the same way as with Georgia. And in this way... We should think about how to help to study these documents, and call on the Armenian side to study the tragic events in which very many Armenians, very many Turks, very many Kurds, Jews and other peoples who live in the region really died. Colleagues! I would, however, like this document not to be supported. Let us clarify these issues, let us look at them, let us look at what the Foreign Affairs Commission is doing at the moment. For example, the document mentions that the Armenian genocide occurred between 1915 and 1923; however, the Osmanic Empire did not exist in 1923. There are also a number of other questions that we, as parliamentarians, could really ask when we meet with historians and initiate such meetings in order to really get a clear answer - which took place during World War I in the Osman Empire... during this period. Thank you for your attention. And, colleagues, I also call for the rejection. That the Foreign Affairs Commission should work on this matter and then report to Parliament accordingly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U794	“On” has applied to speak Member Juris Jušaks.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U795	Hello, colleagues! I am, of course, very sorry that this very important issue, in my opinion, is not being addressed at today's sitting. Mr Kola has opposed the issue. I would like to remind you that, unfortunately, we, as a country, have not been able to express our position clearly and unequivocally over several decades against one of the darkest pages of history of the last century, namely against the Armenian people, against this unforgivable genocide... tragedy. We heard what the previous speaker said: that we need to assess these historical aspects; that we need to make a thorough and thorough assessment. Colleagues! Now, speaking about all this, we are operating with well-known facts, with well-known and publicly available historical research, and it is unlikely that Latvia will be able to study... dedicate something other than what has already been done by historians from other European and other countries around the world. As I said, this is one of the most investigated events of the last century. And I would like to remind you that more than 30 countries in the world have already voted for the recognition of this genocide against the Armenian people, both NATO and the European Union. And, in my opinion, what we have to do is we must boldly call things in the right words and not pretend to be invisible; we must not pass on the values and principles that are important to our country. In my opinion, it is any democratic state... whether, such a mandatory condition and mandatory action. So that I call, my fellow Members, to support, absolutely, the inclusion of this issue in the next Saeima sitting. And I would ask the Saeima Bureau to convene, if possible, a special meeting of the Saeima on this matter... Today or tomorrow. In so far as I call on the Saeima to decide on this issue as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U796	Colleagues must therefore vote in favour of putting this draft decision on the agenda of the next sitting. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision to be included on the agenda of the Saeima's next sitting! Please, let's vote! For - 49, for - 11, for - 21. It is therefore decided to place this own-initiative proposal, this draft decision, on the agenda of the Saeima's next sitting. Hereinafter referred to as the ‘Conclusion, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust’ section of the agenda. Draft decision “On the election of members of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission to investigate the Latvian Government’s mistreatment in the Covid-19 pandemic management process, as well as the names of political officials who have irreversibly negative consequences for Latvia”. Members have not applied for a debate, we can vote. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the election of the members of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission to investigate the Latvian government’s mistreatment in the process of managing the Covid–19 pandemic, as well as name the names of the political officials who have irreversibly negative consequences for Latvia”! Please, let's vote! No, 85, no, three, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Go on. Treatment of requests by Members Requests received by Members. Members Armands Krauze, Uldis Augulis, Jānis Dūklavs, Māris Kučinskis, Edgars Tavars, Raimonds Bergmanis, Viktors Valainis, Gundars Dauge, Jānis Vucans and Karina Sprūde have submitted a request to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On activities and decisions of the Board of the Riga Eastern Clinical University Hospital and the Ministry of Health regarding their real estate management and control of development policy”. Colleagues, Member Armands Krauze has applied for a statement of reasons. Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U797	Hello! Thank you, President. I will briefly explain why Members have prepared such a request. We were approached by hospital staff who pointed out that, however, the policy of managing this property is... Well, maybe not quite economical. We also got acquainted with the information in the public space, and we really had a question. In particular, the question is as follows (I will tell you quite simply): if we plan to develop a hospital and, in general, modernise our health care system, build new hospitals and build new bodies, then it is completely incomprehensible why such works should start with the construction of a multi-storey parking area, for which a landing and take-off area is being built on the roof, i.e. on the upper floor, which is very expensive. So we understand that in Latvia, however, there is enough land to build such infrastructure objects on the ground is much simpler and cheaper, and therefore, I think, such action... Given that the existing helicopter area was only open in 2005, that is, 16 years ago, built steadily on the ground, it seemed very interesting to us, we asked a number of questions. We want to clarify that situation. Maybe when the officials concerned arrive and respond to the request, we will get clear answers. Maybe it's really all right, but maybe it's there, say it, but... This planning in our medical system is not clear enough and chaotic - similar to that of Covidvacines, with these vaccines, with vaccinations and everything else. However, we hope to expect such a very detailed explanation as to why a multi-storey parking lot with helicopter landing is to be built on the roof. This is a very, very expensive solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U798	Thank you. This request shall be submitted to the Requesting Commission. The next item is the opinion of the Petitions Commission. Member Ivars Zariņa, Ivana Ribakova, Valija Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Tutina, Boris Cileviča, Vital Orlova, Regina Ločmeles, Ivana Klementyeva, Jānis Krišāns’ request to the Minister for Health Daniel Pavilāts “On the avoidance of the Minister for Health to reply to the Members’ question on “Modern” vaccine dose order”. On behalf of the Commission, is Member Ivars Puga.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U799	Hello, colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! The Commission examined the request made by Members Ivara Zariņa, Ivana Ribakova, Valeria Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Tutina, Boris Cileviča, Vital Orlova, Regina Ločmele, Ivana Klementyeva, Jānis Krišāns, Minister of Health, Daniel Pavilut, on the avoidance of the Minister for Health, to reply to the Members’ question on the “Modern” vaccine dose order (No. 56/P13). Commission vote: 5 - in favour, 8 - in favour, one Member did not vote. And as a result, Members acknowledged that the request should be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U800	(Sound rupture) Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U801	Good afternoon to all who are still following the sitting! This will also be one moment of interest and revelation: we can learn about the capacity and responsibility of our power towards society. Although the chairman of the Commission mentioned that the request was found to be unfounded by Members, I would like to point out that there was no possibility of recognising it as justified or unfounded, because the responsible official, in this case the Minister for Health, was unable to answer almost any of the questions which would show whether this request was justified or not. Let's get started. All in a row. Colleagues, this request is about the next episode, how Latvia managed not to buy the current vaccines, in this case “Modern” vaccines. Many people know that we did not buy almost a million Pfizer vaccines at the time. So... to be clear: this is already a different episode, the next episode, where again Latvia decided not to purchase the vaccines that it had to purchase, this time “Modern” vaccines - more than 300 thousand vaccines. Knowing that this fact has become known to the public, the Ministry of Health, like the Pfizer vaccines, immediately applied for a service test on this fact. However, we know how the Ministry of Health is doing with these tests - from the previous request, because when we were talking about these vaccines, there can be evidence that, in fact, the Ministry of Health had carried out this inspection of its service, not to reveal anything, but to hide it in order to try to have a good reality, to which almost no one really was to blame. So everyone has been guilty somewhere, everyone has been involved, but so that you can make someone too certain and say who was then really responsible, no one found it. Lacberg, who was expelled before us, was found at the beginning, but we denounced that it really was actually just a search for a scapegoat. In fact, this man's shoulders couldn't be held fully responsible for what happened. Similarly, a service inquiry into the purchase of this ‘Modern’ vaccine. We took a close look at this examination of the service, and we also took a close look at the responses of the Health Minister. And let us share with some pearls, which will be useful not only for those who listen, for our society, but also very useful for law enforcement bodies, which would be worth focusing on what has happened. So, this service test. Following its traditions, the Ministry of Health’s inspection of this service had produced the results so that this responsibility could be released again, but it failed quite successfully. Since it is really a tricky caste, it was very difficult to level it out at a level so that this story would look credible. And how did this account, revealed by the test of this service, look like? This service test has shown that this decision concerning ‘Modern’ vaccines has been taken by a working group. So it would be right to ask: what has happened then, how has this decision been taken in this working group? However, although it is claimed that this decision was taken in this working group... How it was accepted, who has expressed some views - this is not why this service's examination has not been clarified, even though it was so simple - to ask. If there was this decision, if it was already on the basis of this decision, as was said, Lacberg, who was the NSA's responsible official, who was appointed to prepare this application, indicating what we will buy, what we will not buy... He had submitted and responded to this decision, and he could ask Lacberg, who then gave him that decision, which ordered him to prepare it. And then, in chains, we would come to what has been said, why has someone given someone a task or made someone do something. For no reason did the inspection of this service seek to find out. More! It's very ironic... One of the questions that we had asked was for the Minister to explain whether the outcome of the meeting and the decisions were communicated to the Ministry of Health's administration, i.e. the Minister of Health, State Secretary. I quote the text from the official report: “No information has been obtained that the Ministry of Health’s management is aware of the meeting and the decisions taken there.” Here two interesting facts appear immediately. So why has this information not been obtained? Well, would it have been so difficult to ask and find out whether the Minister has been informed or not about this meeting, and ask the participants of the meeting, has anyone informed the Ministers about what is happening or not? You will agree, colleagues, that it is rather strange, quite strange, that the officials come to a meeting at their own hands. So the task force, which has not been formally set up and in which, as we have clarified, it was not quite clear what their powers are, comes to their hands and makes a decision, although, as I said, no one knows what powers are, and this decision is being implemented, without even giving its leadership notice. Colleagues, can you imagine a situation like that? It is very characteristic of the Latvian civil service that they would do so? They decide on their own hands, don’t tell them about it at all, and they don’t even know if they were entitled to do so? And that's what we... such a combination... we claim to have this service checked by the Ministry of Health and try to say that it is true! Well, at least it's very hard for me personally to believe in such a story. The question here is very simple. Why did the test of the ministry not want to ask these questions for clarification? We asked what the problems were: ask the Minister. He replied: “Well how will we ask the Minister now!” It's completely serious. This verification of service was not entitled to ascertain whether or not the Minister had been asked. In this way, these defendants tried, to say the same, to turn themselves out of a situation in which they were obviously positioned. It has been shown that what they say is very difficult to connect with reality. Another well-founded question that was asked. If it is already publicly known that Henhuzen, one of the officials who took part in the whole process, had correspondence with the health ministers, and if we know, even specifically, in detail, how this correspondence related to the Pfizer vaccines looked at, then why could it not be ascertained whether the Minister had had an analogue correspondence with regard to the Modern vaccines? Now where were the problems - ask? We also asked this question to the Minister for Health. It was a revelation to him, and it was almost outrageous, as something can be asked at all. You'll agree, it sounds very strange. The whole structure I mentioned was that there was some kind of working group that had not been formally... there has been no formal order to set up such a working group, there has been no formal delegation of powers... not just official... You can't even still... even after this service test... We asked what the mandate was for this mystical task force, but there was no answer. This group took a decision that they did not even notify at all to the political leadership: do you think that is credible for yourself? Most likely we're talking about it... and it is in a situation where the whole country knows very well that - with this government! - the only strategy, the only way out of this sub-crisis is by vaccination. So that's the number one-- the question of vaccines; it's the number one-- the government. And at the same time, the officials permit the government not to report and say anything about it at all. At least this is said in this report because... That's what it's said here... The same answer also applies to this order: no information has been obtained that the administration of the Ministry of Health would be informed about the preparation of this order form. So, neither for the same meeting, where something was decided, nor for the very fact of ordering. If that really is true, then, colleagues, this fact is, in principle, accusing this government of... which shows that this government has treated the same priority it has set itself as irresponsiblely as possible and without even trying to follow it. And that means that, in essence, a crime has been committed against the people of Latvia. And we can talk about many, many people's lives here, and the facts unfortunately show this. If we look at the co-morbidity and compare, say, Latvia and Estonia (I did it a few weeks ago), then... I remember, according to official statistics, there were 109 thousand in Latvia... More than 109,000 patients died, of whom more than 2 thousand died, while in Estonia, 116 were missing, a little more, and a little more than a thousand were dead. It's almost twice as small. And this difference shows... under conditions... If, as we know, in Lithuania and Estonia living conditions are similar (and we are hardly any more sick and unable than Estonians!) , then this difference shows that responsibility for this should lie with this government, with those political parties who have been responsible for the health system for all these years. This shows the weakness of our healthcare system. So under the same conditions, at the same level of infection (in Estonia it is even higher if we count in proportion to the population!) We have twice as high a mortality. These are facts. And why does that happen? These facts demonstrate - this purchase of vaccines, the purchase of modern vaccines, where... we see how irresponsible power has been - this political power itself has said that this was its priority, but has not taken care of it at all. Colleagues! I therefore believe that this would be justified: to support this request in order to withdraw the Minister for Health here and in order for him to provide answers to the questions he was unable to provide. So was or was there no political power informed? This is the most important question: to what extent the political power was informed, and with what mandate these officials took this decision. Because there are obvious discrepancies at the moment, there are obvious uncertainties which the Minister for Health was unable to dispel when there was a meeting of the Request Commission. Therefore, colleagues, I believe... If we believe that we have nothing to hide from the Latvian society about how this power works, and if we want to clarify the truth, to find out how our “responsible” and “smart” governments have actually acted, then I think we should not be afraid of the fact that the Minister is being called here and that we are clarifying the truth. First of all, I appeal to my colleagues from the New Conservative Party. You were the ones who came into politics with this story of responsibility, political responsibility, the fight against powerlessness, irresponsibility, corruption. Your votes in this vote will be decisive. That will be what will enable us to find out how it was actually - what has happened to this purchase; who is responsible for this, to what extent it is politicians who are responsible for what happened, for these unpurchased vaccines. This is very important for us to put an end to such situations in the future; to finally start working on the principle of political responsibility. Colleagues, I call for this request to be supported. And I call on all the public to follow this request, this vote and to demand. I call on the voters to ask their politicians for an explanation of why they choose to cover this area, why they do not want to find out the truth - the extent to which this power has been politically responsible for what has happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U802	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U803	For the Commission During the Commission meeting, Members assessed what they heard and came to the conclusion that this request was not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2241-U804	Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivara Zariņa, Ivana Ribakova, Valija Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Tutina, Boris Cileviča, Vital Orlova, Regina Ločmele, Ivana Klementyeva, Janis Krišāns, Minister of Health, Daniel Pavlutas, on the avoidance of the Minister of Health to reply to the Members’ question “On “Modern” vaccine dose order”! Please, let's vote! For - 30, for - 52, for - 3. The request is rejected. Colleagues, the agenda of the sitting has been examined. In addition, the questions and statements put by Members. Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Lubova Švecova, Edgars Tavars and Viktors Valainis have submitted the question “On restricting human rights and meeting the requirements of the law”. We hand it over to the Prime Minister for a reply. Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Lubova Švecova, Edgars Tavars and Viktors Valainis have submitted a question “Additional questions about hygienic tissue masks”. We hand it over to the Minister for Economic Affairs for a reply. Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Lubova Švecova, Edgars Tavars, Karina Sprūde and Viktors Valainis have submitted the question “On proceedings for breach of the epidemiological restrictions established in the country”. We hand it over to the Minister of Justice for a reply. Now, the messages. Dear colleagues, Today, the parliamentary committee of inquiry, set up by the Saeima decision, meets at its first (partially remote) meeting at 16.00 in the Saeima Red Hall. Consequently, access information will be sent to all members of the panel. Once again: this sitting will be partly remote and will take place in the Red House of the Saeima. Since there is also a parliamentary committee of inquiry, we will begin to review the agenda of the parliamentary sitting on 22 April this year at 5.15 p.m. Colleagues, that is to say, the agenda for the meeting on 22 April will be discussed at 5.15 p.m. So I closed the Saeima sitting. We will continue at 17.15 a.m. There's also a record of Members. Thank you. Registration is over. I'm closing the sitting.
