ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U1	Honourable Members! Let's start the third remote emergency sitting on 27 May this year. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U2	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! I remind you that the draft law delegates to the Cabinet of Ministers the procedure for requiring, preparing, issuing, verifying and using digital sub-certificates. The certificate will verify that the holder has vaccinated, tested (with negative test result!) if it has overloaded Covid-19 and acquired immunity. Certificates will be used both when travelling in the European Union and within Latvia. 19 proposals have been received for the second reading. 1. - the proposal of Members Stepanenko, Svekova and Srūde. It is planned to establish the procedure that the Cabinet of Ministers' decisions must receive the Saeima's approval - contrary to current procedure, when the Cabinet of Ministers has a full delegation. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U3	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U4	Colleagues! We saw the Saeima debate last Thursday and we saw the UK Members feel very keen to change the situation. We remember that the UK Members spoke very strongly last Thursday about amending the order set by the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the visit to the world hockey championship by a decision of the Saeima. Unfortunately, he didn't achieve his own. And then, of course, we heard Mr. Feldman say that the Cabinet is too... Really... that they "sitting on the hands" that nothing happens and that we need to change something. I understood from Mr Feldman's words that this displeasure was great. So we have very high hopes of offering this proposal once more fuel, but a little bit more of a modification to the fact that we have, I think, finally the time has come to deprive the government of the right to decide how many of us can gather together, how we can... where we can enter the shop, how long we can sit on the terrace and so forth. What is happening now - the Saeima is trying to change this strange order with both decisions and proposals of the Cabinet of Ministers. And in this law it will be, and we see that in this law too... Members of the coalition will also have put forward various proposals by which they will try to reach these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, in which again... people receive various restrictions. Therefore, our proposal is to establish a similar procedure to that in the emergency situation, but to establish the right of the Saeima to decide. And by decision of the Saeima, these restrictions imposed by the Cabinet of Ministers would have entered into force, not as it was during an emergency situation, when the Cabinet of Ministers had a proposal, for example, to prohibit the sale of certain goods again. The Cabinet comes to the Saeima and offers such a proposal, and in the form of decisions of the Saeima, as was the case in the Emergency Order, states that there is support or no support, for example, to ban the sale of cucumbers. The Saeima shall therefore assume full responsibility for such action. Members of the Saeima, who have been appointed by the people, are also, accordingly, accountable to their constituents, not, as they are now, simply trenching their shoulders and saying: we are not deciding anything in this country, we are not deciding anything, we are not... The Cabinet decides everything. And that, unfortunately, my dear colleagues, is going on for a year. This situation is not normal, and it is also very well understood by the coalition colleagues, but they still vote as they vote. I call on you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U5	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U6	The Commission did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U7	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the motion submitted by Members Stepanenko, Svekova and Srūde! Please, let's vote! For - 21, for - 50, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U8	The proposal, also tabled by Members Stepanenko, Schvecow and Sprūde, is related to proposal 1. It clarifies which Saeima should be evaluated when it decides to accept the decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U9	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U10	Colleagues! So far... Whereas it is now in force... We hope that sometime we may still be able to change this... At the moment, the Cabinet of Ministers, when deciding on these restrictions, specifically evaluates the proportionality of these restrictions, the necessity, then evaluates the impact of restrictions or prohibitions on compliance with the principle of legal equality, and then... The third point, on which we also had a very large number of debates at the time, is an assessment of the need to provide for support measures for groups of persons whose rights and legitimate interests would be restricted. So now the Cabinet of Ministers must only consider the need to support those who will be affected by another ban on the sale of cucumbers... But the Saeima... but our proposal for the Saeima's decision is much more specific: the Saeima must make sure of the first two cases, but the Saeima must be sure of the third case that such support measures are secured. So the Cabinet of Ministers should give the Saeima a vision of how cucumber dealers will be protected from bankruptcy if the Cabinet of Ministers has decided that cucumbers will be prohibited in Latvia. That's why we're calling... I do not know whether this proposal is to be voted on, but in any case I call for its support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U11	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U12	The Commission did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U13	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the motion submitted by Members Stepanenko, Svekova and Srūde! Please, let's vote! For - 18, for - 52, for - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U14	3. - the proposal of Members Stepanenko, Svekova and Srūde. This is related to the first two proposals that have not already been supported, which set out the procedure for the Saeima to adopt decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U15	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U16	Colleagues! Contrary to what is happening at the moment with regard to the restrictions imposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, we offer that these proposals of the Cabinet of Ministers, which should be approved by the Saeima and which would not be valid until approved by the Saeima - that these proposals would really be submitted together with the evaluation and that this evaluation should be... that there must be not just some kind of word self-confection - yes, we assessed everything, everything is all right - but it must be documentaryly proven... together with this third point that I have just told you about. So it is a necessity - a necessity! - also provide for support measures for those whose interests will be affected. I call for support if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U17	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U18	The Commission did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U19	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the motion of Members Stepanenko, Svekova and Srūde! Please, let's vote! For - 22, for - 52, for - 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U20	4. - the proposal of Members Stepanenko, Svekova and Srūde. Provision is made for the waiver of fines for the use of the oral and nasal cover. The proposal has been rejected by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U21	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U22	Colleagues! We are very sorry that the majority of the Commission wants to continue collecting penalties for non-carrier masks; it wants to continue to support people who have not worn these masks for various reasons. It is particularly regrettable, given the fact that our society is very dubious. And I'm not talking about society as a whole, but about it as the seemingly best part, which sees itself as the best part, which sees itself as a part of a society that urgently needs to play in order to ensure the continuity of the state's activities. We are talking about the situation that we could have seen both in the Saeima with regard to the various Members of the Saeima (I will mention Mrs Chaksha again, congratulations to her!) And also... We saw this situation, too, with regard to watching the hockey championship. There were pictures of people who had no facial masks. So people who receive a penalty - 50 euros! - the fact that they entered the shop without a mask because they had a doctor's mark that relieves them of carrying a mask, they have no idea why there are people who have such rights and who do not even need to explain why they do not carry that mask and who do not receive a penalty. Why are others to be punished? If we look at our neighbours... You have seen this comparison, it is really a shocking comparison, you have seen the fines imposed in Latvia compared to the fines in Estonia and Lithuania. You see that the obligation to wear facial masks was both in Estonia and in Lithuania. Some people ignored it, others noticed it, but these rates were not dependent on it. In my opinion, this harsh punishment mechanism, which is currently in force in Latvia and which you so much want to continue to support, is ineffective and very, very discriminatory to those people who do not have these opportunities to walk with a mask. There was one case at the moment of the appeal: for one Mrs who had no chance of wearing this mask, she had an excuse sign from the doctor. And the rules you support state that a person must have an obvious disorder in order to be allowed not to carry this mask. And by supporting these rules, you have supported the store's guard now watching... Well, he's forced to do it, otherwise he's gonna be laid off, because if the police catch up at least one person without a mask in the store, then, of course, the shop will have to close for seven days. The guard must observe how a person behaves in the store, or whether he can move his hands - he must then call the police and impose penalties. Just imagine where this situation has come from! And you're accomplice to it. At the same time, when you see Anda Chaksh without a mask and hear her colleagues speak in the office right there, you pretend as if nothing had happened. So there are the chosen ones who can do that. There is absolutely no reason to impose fines at the moment for failing to carry masks. I call on you, my fellow Members, to support this proposal and to really stop laughing at people.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U23	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U24	In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U25	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the motion submitted by Members Stepanenko, Svekova and Srūde! Please, let's vote! For - 23, for - 54, for - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U26	5. - a proposal by Members Dombrovskis and Papule, which provides for the creation by law of a new chapter, which could list the exceptions to be applied to persons who have been vaccinated or who have had a convoy. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U27	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U28	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Society! I think it certainly seems interesting to you: how can it be that, for a few days now, the senior officials of the country have been talking about the fact that those who have vaccinated or have been overloaded may have some reliefs and be allowed to return to normal, but Members of the ruling coalition do not support such a chapter in the law? under that name. Well, but, as we know, both the Saeima commissions and the Saeima have such a conveyor to reject any opposition proposals - without anything real... Neither for debate nor for substance... Nothing. Colleagues! These proposals, which are the first of these and come from me and from my colleague Evija Papules, are identical to those submitted seven days ago (I stress - submitted seven days ago!) Also Covid-19 infection management law, but... Well, so to say, the same but another law... We have several of these... this law, legislative versions, amendments that are open and “walk” through the Saeima, but... either, are, by nature, subject to a pick-up by the Commission. So for some reason, it moves very, very slowly. So... We are talking about what was presented seven days ago. Colleagues, these proposals were tabled because of the fact that we can see - well, at least for me, and I think many others can see - that the government is very confused at all about what is happening and that the confusion does not show the government its clear strategy at all, how it will turn out to people at the end of the tunnel, how we will begin to get out of this already seemingly eternal emergency, pandemic situation. Colleagues, I will remind you that only before (How long was it?) about two weeks we've got both government and here... Some colleagues, remember... that it was also a debate about opening terraces - or allowing the opening of terraces, external terraces... We were told here that the opening of these terraces led to a new outbreak of this pandemic. It seemed that many of those who spoke about it spoke of it with all seriousness, with full conviction that this would be the case. As we can see, nothing like that has happened, of course. We see that the opposite has happened, although external terraces are open and people can both sit there and eat there (there were noticed drinking tea even some Members). No apocalypse has occurred. The opposite is true: the rates of disease are falling. And that's not a surprise, colleagues! Because, as science says, the risk of infection in the outdoors - because of its nature, how this virus spreads - is 20 times lower. The probability of infection in outdoors is 20 times lower than in indoors. But the government, of course, is going to come now the fourth wave or someone there. And like the government, so to speak, completely lay down the second wave, this time the government completely lay down the decrease in morbidity. The government was in no way ready... We have seen this in the last two weeks - the government is not ready, it was not ready to reduce the incidence and it was not ready to identify reliefs for those people who have either stuck or fully vaccinated. So, colleagues, here we are offering this way, because people need to understand what they need to do to get back to normal... and under what conditions... and how its normal life could return. Once again, I stress that the government is not giving any clarification on these issues. The government can't even tell whether... just by saying if... children can go to summer camps. But the summer is here. Can't tell if the children will go to school on 1 September. I'll go on.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U29	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U30	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues! I would like to add: the reasons why there are proposals of this kind are actually linked to three such objectives, one can say. The first, of course, is to motivate people to choose... It's a free choice... choose for vaccination. And at this point in time, we can see how state aid or how it shows that such a responsible, self-accepted decision is supported if it is now declared by the government as one of the only exits from the sub-situation. The second is to send out a message that the government (and, at this point, Parliament actually) sees an opportunity... that, yes, the ban is over and it must begin to look at how we get out of the co-situation. That would be one aspect of why we would give people a message that, yes, we also see another solution that would allow us to return, if I may say so, to normal life. Second, so to speak, the group... The second group of reasons would be to open a debate on other groups as well; not only on those who have been vaccinated or have become ill, but also on other groups that would be given your innovation, your genius innovation, a "interoperable certificate". I hope that the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers (the project did not show anything about it) will, however, include, for example, two other groups. The first group would be those who have natural immunity. And you can prove it. Those who deny... or deny... Science... It can be proved that there is a natural immunity against this disease... or otherwise. The other group is people who cannot, cannot, at all, vaccinate or for whom doctors have not yet decided whether they can vaccinate the community or cannot, because of their medical condition or some certain diagnosis. And we know there's such a diagnosis. Doctors also have not yet decided in the case of winning cancer, as different can have side effects and complications, and consequences. It has not been decided whether this type of vaccine... how this type of vaccine will affect health when it comes to adverse reactions that are not also excluded from science when it comes to vaccination against the community. And the third reason would be actually a rhetorical question - or coalition now... without ‘interoperable certificates’... see the need... Will there be any new, third or other special law on how the state of Latvia intends to go out - not to prevent consequences, but to go out! - from co-situation (including, of course, a number of areas, not only facilitations or phasing out of bans, but also a number of areas... about how to organise normal life with perhaps smaller or other types of restrictions that we already know and know)? In fact, the three groups are the reason for these proposals. I call on the coalition not to entice and reject these proposals or at least to say in the debate that the Commission mentioned - not today, but yesterday - from government representatives that there are 11-page proposals (in the context of the Cabinet Regulations). Then please debate here and tell, not reject the proposals that... It seems that some of these 11 pages are already included on the pages that people may see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U31	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U32	Colleagues, I will continue. Since the government, as I said, has not defined any strategy, no vision, has not explained to people how they can return to normal, then, please, I can do this now, right now, so that the coalition Members... I hope that, so to say, you will properly now write down all that I will say so that you can pass it on as their ideas after a while. First. Go back to a normal life, that is, stop wearing masks (and so on), start visiting cinemas, gyms (and so on), can those people who have fully vaccinated - that is absolutely clear. The other group that can do it is the ones who have shrunk or... Well, I'm not so strong in these sciences... those who have either its antibodies, either, for some other reason, or natural immunity, or... Well, who's there... Third. I believe that it is necessary to provide for opportunities to return to normal life, at least to visit sports halls and theatres, and so on, for those people who have chosen not to vaccinate someone (no matter what!) for reasons, but provided they pass the cord test some 24 or 48 hours before they visit the gym and it will be valid for some time. Of course, the test would be for your own - for your own! - resources. And then it is necessary to make it clear when someone is vaccinated (fully vaccinated!) and the percentage of crowded people (probably at 60-70) would be able to return to normal life absolutely everyone. Even those not vaccinated. I hope you have signed up to it, dear members of the coalition, and you will soon notify it as your plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U33	Thank you. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U34	The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U35	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - the proposal tabled by Members Dombrovskis and Papules! Please, let's vote! For - 25, for - 54, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U36	6. - a proposal from Members Dombrovskis and Papule. The use of facial masks is not required for vaccinated or decongestant individuals. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U37	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U38	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I think that here everyone fully understands that such a proposal will appear and soon will be supported and introduced. Of course, it is quite uncomfortable for the coalition that they were with Evia Papuli, who a week ago - a week ago! - submitted such a proposal. About the same time, when the President of the United States of America, Baden, wrote on Twitter that it is not the obligation of those who have vaccinated or overloaded... There will be no obligation to wear masks in the United States. So what, colleagues, is your greater authority to make it clear that this will happen soon? Colleagues, also in essence... Colleagues, I will remind you of what science knows about the spread of this specific virus, Covid-19. It spreads in two ways. Above all, drops along the way. And that's why there's masks. When we talk or shout, or how, those drops could spread... to some distance. Well, if we remember physics, that distance isn't too big. That's why we have those two meters... Regulation (EU) No 231/2014 And that's why it's the confidence... It is believed that the use of masks could help because it is clear that these drops will not spread so far from the mouth of potentially infected people. The second type is - in the form of a spray. Of course, no mask will help against this. And in time... and at the distance... spray - it is particularly dangerous indoors, but not especially active in outdoors. As I said before, outdoors... in this spray form... The probability of infection is about 20 times lower than in the indoor environment. From this, colleagues, it is clear that people who have either completely vaccinated themselves or have shredded their covides do not make any sense to use facial masks. No point. Yeah, a week ago... I remember that some of you colleagues here tried to tell us that if... Now we're talking about a specific example: the hockey championship... that in that case, as was proposed by some colleagues - from the UKP -... that if a fully vaccinated person and the crowded people arrive inside the championship, then... Some of you tried to tell us here that, here they could become infected; that it could somehow contribute to the spread and expansion of the co-administration and that it would be against the medical... and so on. Colleagues, it's all a nightmare! Now that a letter from the Ministry of Health appears, which also... finally say that, no, nothing like that could be. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call on you not to hold this stupid situation for a long time, that those people who have shrivelled and those who have fully vaccinated - that they still have an obligation to use masks. They should not have such an obligation. The fact that they're using... continues to use masks, is completely unnecessary. And every day when they keep doing it... These people are not stupid, they ask themselves a question. So every day when they continue to comply with this apparently meaningless requirement... This can only have one effect - the fact that their trust, their faith in what comes from the government and the Saeima will decrease more and more. Colleagues! It is the legislator’s responsibility to create not only understandable laws but also reasonable laws, otherwise people will no longer follow them. Neither shall the law, nor the law, be respected. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U39	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U40	Dear President of the Saeima. In addition to what my colleague said, I will, of course, also call for support for this proposal. Once again, at least a few examples and reasons for why. The first reason would be to clearly define how we start out of the situation... not from the point of view of elimination, but quite the opposite... exit from the current situation and return to normal life, as other countries do now. Secondly, to avoid uncertainty as to why some people may not wear masks, different situations allow them not to do so. We know what's happening now, for example, with television... with the debate on television... Why is it that part is allowed not to wear masks, but that everyone else should wear them on a compulsory basis? Let me give you a third example. In fact, it would also enable us to return to work on the ground. Perhaps someone no longer wants it, and yet - come back on the spot and the Saeima to work on the spot. So all people who have vaccinated have to discuss without masks, not just eyes visible. I think it would also be more convenient for you, Madam President of the Saeima, or for your colleagues who are chairing the sittings. In any case, I am calling for support because it would make it clear why some of them wear masks and why others do not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U41	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U42	The Commission rejected the proposal 6.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U43	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - the proposal tabled by Members Dombrovskis and Papules! Please, let's vote! For - 19, for - 56, for - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U44	7. - a proposal from Members Dombrovskis and Papule. It is foreseen that vaccinated or apprehended persons can attend sports halls, sports training and sports events. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U45	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U46	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I look forward very much to whether any coalition could tell us here (Why not?) why the high officials of the country are calling people to vaccinate, saying that this will be possible to return to a normal life. Now hundreds of thousands of people have either completely vaccinated... either having received the first ankle or a complete vaccine, but you do not allow these people to return to normal. Why do you deny these people the opportunity to do sports, go to the gym? Why? Why do you stop sports medicine from working? We are also talking here about people who are sitting out of work. Perhaps sitting on the taxpayer, at the expense of the debt, receiving those cut-off benefits that make the country need to borrow money, which we will all have to pay back. Our children, our grandchildren will have to give it back. Instead of at least those, if I'm not mistaken, more than 200,000 people who have either shrunk or completely vaccinated could return to normal life, be able to attend sports classes, gyms, other sports events, you... Why do you deny them the opportunity to do so? Can at least one of the coalition Members today, please explain why? Why don't you deny people the opportunity to work if it doesn't have any... Is that so? I think only a complete idiot does not, for time, understand that it has no serious epidemiological risk; that everything you are doing - you are preventing people from working, you are denying people who have fully vaccinated to do sports. You really have to ask, why? Is it just because this proposal is now from the opposition? Are you planning to submit the same proposal? When? You're waiting for the government to finally agree on something there, are you? How much time does the government need to do? The government is already moving at some speed, colleagues. Couldn't it be faster, please? I call for support, colleagues. All of you! - to know very well that this is a matter of time - that such a proposal will be supported. Time question. Better earlier than later. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U47	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U48	Madam President, colleagues. In countless conversations, in various commissions and working groups, officials of the Ministry of Health point to insufficient funding for different needs, starting with the financial increase needed to compensate for medicines and finally perhaps unknown... Well, unknown things that lack money. It is clear that there is not enough money in the area of health. That is why it is this proposal that those people who have fulfilled certain national conditions voluntarily... chosen to vaccinate, could gradually restore sports activities in their free time... and would not be the people who might need some additional rehabilitation courses at one point, so the extra money again, and then again the Ministry of Health would agree and explain the reasons that there is no money or that there is insufficient money. At this point, I will not talk about the hockey championship and many other things that are not understandable and are not executed on the part of the Cabinet of Ministers. And probably also “interoperable certificates” will not help fans of the hockey championship in Latvia to get here and watch the games on the spot. It is clear, however, that sporting activities will enable people not to fall into depression, to gradually return to normal life and to find the joy of life, which will probably also allow them not to talk about another side effect in cositating... All this shows the state's inability to support its citizens - we are talking about suicide, about the severe depression of young people, about the choice of young people not to learn further. So life is losing... an activity or interest in life. At this point in time, this proposal, which will probably also be gradually supported by the famous 11-page Cabinet of Ministers regulations, would perhaps also give our art that yes, members of the Saeima care about the physical health of our people. I call for support. Or at least tell me how the government plans to return this part of life... give back to their citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U49	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U50	Hello, colleagues! The subject is very topical, but unfortunately when we looked at the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption... There is always a hurry. Both yesterday's hasty and today's hasty - there's never time to stick normally to those questions so that people can explain... to have this explanatory information from public authorities too, not the same... We have been hearing the same text for half a year - without any research, without any scientific evidence... Just ban it. Say, ban because I want it, and that's it. And you... opposition... silently... Let's vote, and that's it. And this is happening without any parliamentary debate. Today too. But if we take that matter so seriously... Over this year, more than a year, in Latvia, the community has already shrunk about 200 thousand, but if less, it is not so important either. Many more have already received a second dose of the vaccine. Since almost half a million people were able to control themselves from disease. And also, of course, those who shook the community... We know what doctors are not talking about yet in the open text, but the situation is quite tragic, because those people who are overloading need rehabilitation. And it lasts from a month... month time - at best, maybe up to three... up to half a year - depending on the strength of health. It is very important for those people, at least those who can move, who want to move, to be able to visit the gym, so that they can... Of course, they are not rehabilists who work in medical institutions, but they are lacking unfortunately because there is also a long row. We also need to worry about this in the Saeima - what happened in that sector? But there too (A sound defect.) ... and help people begin to move, so that its breathing is still... This is important. And now, too, we... In Latvia, we start talking about the fact that sport helps to keep the body stronger and not treat the community. It helps. Even if that man, a sportsman, gets sick with a community, he's going through a very... faster at least. ( Not to be heard.) ... they're fighting it. Let us now be wise! During the half-year we cannot receive from the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Education and Science, from the Ministry of Health... Let's start thinking! No, we don't think, just say, ban, and that's it! Forbid, that's it! Let's wait for those numbers until 200 people get sick every day, then maybe - yes. Well, then there will be others... We have been in that regime since September - nine months. We could do something in nine months, ladies and gentlemen. That means that our ministers do not have the right tactic, we need to change the tactic. If this tactic doesn't work, let's change that tactic. Let's look at our neighbours, let's look at the European Union that has happened there, as they are... Unfortunately, yes, it can be said that vaccination is very slow, but it is also your mistake because the prosecutor's office has initiated criminal proceedings for the fact that we will not investigate the procurement of Pfizer... So we gave up on our own, and we lost three months in fact... where people have already been able to hit half a million more. And with the first dose and the second, instead of waiting for 12 weeks of AstraZeneca. It's three months, a very long period. So we're limited... and these (not clear to be heard) ... I should have been from the government, from the Minister for Health... Well, admit your mistakes! So that I call on you to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U51	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U52	Hello, dear colleagues! Welcome, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Vjačeslav Dombrovskis, you asked a question about whether anyone could answer why - no. I cannot answer - I say right away because I find this very coherent proposal and also in time. I feel that this proposal does not hold back the criticism that it has been tabled from the opposition, let us accept it, and that is why it should not be supported. I think it's completely past. I am trying to say in my speech that I am calling for support for this proposal, the 7th and the next, the 8th, also for theatre performances. And not because I've worked in the theatre, but precisely because this is one of the stages in the chain. Let's go, proposal 7. Note: “A person who has fully vaccinated against Covid–19 or has overloaded it may attend sports halls, sports training and sports events without restrictions.” In order to take place some sports events or gyms, some entie square meters are prescribed as one person has to be, and so forth. Just like in a store called Rimi, you can't go in until you have a free basket. Something's going on here. Also with sports events... No, but for sports training. Of course, they are vitally necessary and do not have to tell Klementyev, let's assume how much sport is needed. Well, in the sense that it doesn't have to be repeated, but everyone understands it. The answer, Vjačeslav, I don't have your question, if honest, because the proposal is a matter. What Mr Klementyeva said is that these proposals are being discussed at such an end. Yes, I have been present, and that is what is happening, and that is the pace of what is enormous, because it is simply very, very much, and there is a lot of information that they want. I call for support, Members, for proposal 7, proposal 8. And let's take the theatres... Well, you've never been to theatres before. I hope anyone listens to this speech at all, because, in parallel, Americans with Latvia are playing hockey. But if you listen, the theatres already have these places separated by a distance of two metres and a wall of organic glass so that those viewers are not side by side. Just like Circle K in petrol tanks, well, there's this transparent wall in front. I call on you to support this. And not because it's an opposition or it's a position. We remember... Well, maybe one of you has been from the Saeima on a mission. No matter where... outside Latvia. Then there is a normal group of members of its mission, and there are members of the position and members of the opposition. They travel outside Latvia and represent the country, they represent Latvia, they are the face of Latvia. And then, believe me (I am, I don't know, maybe I've been on three missions in six years, I think it's like that, maybe in four, I don't know) - it's all like one. Everybody! There is no dispute anymore - which is in the position of the opposition - just as you cross the border of Latvia, i.e. on board you sit down, it's all for one, because we present one country. Here is a basically similar thing, here is offered a logical proposal, one of the stages of the chain, and not to support it simply because it is recommended by Vjačeslav or is an applicant - it's not, it's not that... What does it look like? It's not serious! And then, let's say, it's a week, and then it's going to be. Today there will be both terraces - that you may work until night. I think it should also be supported. It is also necessary to support hockey exercises for children, it is also necessary to support this proposal, it is necessary to support the 8th proposal on theatre performances, how theatre, concerts and so on can be visited. This is all, I think, just... where these negotiations have then taken place that they will not now support this. Because no, and that's it. And I do not believe that it cannot be supported. I do not believe that it must be the way it is today. I think it's different. I have such confidence, and that is my right to that confidence. I call on Members to support proposals 7 and 8. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U53	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U54	First of all, thank you very much, of course, to both Mr. Neighbours and other colleagues, to those who listen. You colleagues, read the news at 15.49, while we are having this debate here. In the public media there is a message that here, from... I'll read you a message. As of 15 June - the government reports to us today - from 15 June people who have vaccinated or had vaccinated the community will be able to participate in public events, visit cafes, cinema, theatre performances, concerts, clubs and other similar services. Caution: - without the use of facial masks and without a two-metre distance distance. Do you, my fellow Members, think it does not seem ridiculous - while you are rejecting these proposals here, members of the coalition, because they were tabled by Vjačeslav Dombrovskis and Evia Papulis, your government says: here's all that you are rejecting today, against which you are voting today, it will all be from 15 June. Doesn't it seem funny to you what you're doing today? I'm sorry... Unfortunately, the government works so slowly that instead... I will remind you: these proposals were put forward in another law seven days ago - seven days ago! So instead of giving people the opportunity to attend sports classes and so on, the gym work, you will have to keep all those people waiting for more than two weeks because the government can only do so from June 15th. Just because - no, if Dombrovskis has submitted, you can't. Let's wait two weeks while the government is moving. Well, what is that, colleagues? I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U55	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U56	The Commission did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U57	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - the proposal tabled by Members Dombrovskis and Papules! Please, let's vote! For - 31, for - 49, for - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U58	8 / 8 - a proposal from Members Dombrovskis and Papule. It provides that vaccinated or Covid-19 recipients can attend theatre performances, concerts, cinemas and cultural events. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U59	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U60	Dear colleagues, I would just remind you that what you are doing at the moment - you are voting against exactly the same proposals on which the government you have elected announced that exactly all this will come into effect from 15 June. Because the Latvian public media news says that the message comes from the government - from 15 June people who have vaccinated the community or have vaccinated it will be able to participate in public events, visit cafes, cinema, theatre performances, concerts, clubs and receive other... without face masks and without two-metre distance. That is why I do not know, colleagues who are going on here today. Either it is a full month or it is the end of this coalition today, when, however, all its coalition parties decide to definitely vote against what your government offers, because you are now voting against what your government offers. I understand in this way that you will vote equally consistently against those proposals - both your ministers in government sittings and... when the relevant amendments reach the Saeima. If it doesn't give God, it's because these are some additions from Vjačeslav Dombrovsky... and you can only do this when the government is going to end up doing it, then let us talk a little about what the government tells you about why it is not possible to do it immediately. You are told by the government how I understand that, here, there is no IT solution that makes it possible to find out today who has been vaccinated or crushed and who has not been vaccinated or crushed. I'm... Note that public television, for example, may already do so - it is enough to just sign the paperwork. But it's not possible to sign the paper in any other way. So you are told that there is no IT solution at the moment. Then, colleagues, ask yourself a question why... At least, members of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission remember - the beginning of February - the vaccination office comes with appropriations, either, together with the government, of course asking 1.4 million to manage the vaccination process on the basis of three paragraphs. Well, what... Of course, the coalition gives them this money. It is said that all of this will be developed within a month. So 1.4 million IT solutions have been allocated to the management of the vaccination process, but somehow it turns out that this IT solution can help nothing to determine if a person has overloaded... have been fully vaccinated or have not been vaccinated. How can that be? Did the government laugh at us, colleagues? Also about you, about coalition colleagues. How can it that a million spent on IT solutions and this IT solution is unable to identify who has been vaccinated, who has not been vaccinated? It's some kind of perfect fiction, colleagues! And then you are told that, here, this solution will only be from 1 June or 15 June. Why? That's why... Until the European Union does so, until the European Union demands safe green certificates, we are also unable to move anywhere. Lithuanians have already done this for domestic use. It already works in Lithuania - such a passport. They are able to determine who has received non-vaccinated vaccines. We're not able. Well, I don't know, colleagues, how can you really wonder about it... What, what happens to our government, colleagues! It really deserves this extraordinary sitting, which was convened today with the votes of the opposition, because it is inconceivable - what is happening today. I call for support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U61	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U62	Madam President, colleagues. I call for support for the proposal. Let me just mention a few points. First. In support of this proposal, you save your borrowing money and our children and grandchildren will have to pay back the lower debt that you are currently spending in support of industry by paying benefits. At this point, when the industry... the industry has expressed its willingness to gradually return, subject to all your restrictions, but to return to its work, thus restoring both the tradition and... the work of their industry. The cultural sector must be supported by allowing them to work for themselves. Second. It is clear that this proposal, unlike the previous speech on mental health, is no less important than physical health. Consequently, by rejecting this proposal, you say, as you said last time, that we do not care what happens to you, people, either physically or spiritually. And I will not mention the depression of young people, including, to some extent, the limitations of older people to attend several opportunities. As a result, they may not see the need for vaccination, because it does not bring any advantages and they cannot enjoy their traditional cultural institutions offered. You therefore say that you do not care, you have other reasons and other needs and other interests, including, perhaps, the cost of the financial loan. And the third. Well, to be honest, I would call on the President of Latvia to look at things, with similar mention of accidents that occur in the system of state administration, perhaps this could now be called a government accident, because a parliament that has been elected by the people, unlike the Prime Minister, says - no, we do not need to support sport, culture or any other measures in order to gradually return to normal life. No, Members say: “Sit in your cages, and that’s it! We want it!” At the same time, a government made up of both Prime Minister and Ministers, some who have not been elected, says: "No, no, no, we will be the good, and we are removing several restrictions, even until the masks are carried." I do not think that in this way you will be able to rehabilize the work of the government in terms of human assessment. At the moment, I invite you to think about yourself and support this proposal, because people are looking at you in parallel to the hockey game and are waiting for your decision in favour of their lives. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U63	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U64	Colleagues, well, I have understood that this meeting is now being followed by at least journalists from Latvian Television “Panoramas” because I opened the show and “Panoramas” journalists write... Five minutes ago. I do not really understand who is right now and what we are doing here in this sitting. The following text starts with the sign: “From 15 June, people who have vaccinated against Covid-19 or had it overloaded will be able to take part in public events, attend cafes, cinema and theatre performances, concerts, clubs and receive other services without the use of facial masks and without a two-metre distance.” This is a certified “Panorama” account on a Twitter. I'm reading it now. It's put in five minutes ago. I am opening up the 8th proposal, I am reading the proposal. Applicants - Dombrovskis, Papule. ‘ A person who has fully vaccinated against Covid-19 or has overloaded it may attend theatre performances, concerts, cinemas and other cultural events without restrictions.’ Well, to be honest, this is even more narrower than what the "Panorama" announced now. And then I have a question now... so, well, without any bends and so on. The rapporteur is Vita Anda Steel. You are the rapporteur. Tell me why it has been rejected because “Panorama” has been supported. That's one. So you supported... So 15 June is supported, and today we cannot support it because... Why? What? Where is the problem? I didn't understand now. Well, so you're, please, at least with that silence... Mr Dūris, as Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Health, please explain where it is... I don't understand those weights now, because why should I repeat that... It's clear to the dead bunny here, now! I call for support for proposal 8, and I am very sorry about the previous, 7th, but I understand that it is, or so, on 15 June... Now it's 27 May. Well, “Panorama” knows better. And I also agree with them, but then maybe we can come ahead with “Panorama”? Not “Panorama” produces news, but Saeima House produces news! What would be the other way around? Thank you. Please support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U65	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U66	This proposal, 8th, was also rejected, considering that these functions have already been delegated to the Cabinet of Ministers and two regulations are not necessary.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U67	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - the proposal tabled by Members Dombrovskis and Papules! Please, let's vote! For - 30, for - 50, for - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U68	9. - a proposal from Members Dombrovskis and Papule. Instructs the Cabinet to set requirements and procedures for summer camps for children and young people by 31 May. The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U69	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U70	Dear colleagues, The rapporteur for the committee. You know that our legislator is not doing anything that the Cabinet of Ministers would not have done. Therefore, if you think that, as a result, the Cabinet of Ministers has been delegated to do everything the legislator is doing, and if you now say publicly, Mrs. Steel, that if it is delegated to the Cabinet of Ministers, then all... anything that comes from the legislator, something that the legislator does not support... Any proposals, then the question logically: what are you doing here? What are you doing personally, what are your entire group doing? What are we doing here anyway? Well, will there be only one government? Maybe a dictator or something? Then no legislator is needed. Then rewrite the Constitutions, then you need to change the Constitution according to your words. If specifically on this proposal. For us, fellow Members, here, I think there is nothing more of a surprise. We have a situation where summer is here, the school year is over. I think those with children know there's a thing like summer camps. I think they know very well that those summer camps are organised, people have applied for months... and are planning months before it happens... from March, April, perhaps earlier. For those who organise summer camps - also for those entrepreneurs, municipalities or who are there - it would also be quite good to know whether their summer camps will work at all. If he works, what are the conditions? Why are they going to? I already said here today that the legislator's work is... I have already said that there is clear legislation, that there is reasonable legislation, but that is also about time. Colleagues, the work of the legislator (and if the government cannot do so, the work of the government) - so that people have clear rules of play in time. Not so much there... not a few days before summer accession, but at least a month in advance, please could! What was so complicated, respectable government and the Saeima... What was so complicated a month before the summer, at least at the beginning of May or at the end of April, to clarify whether or not the summer camps would work for children? It was so difficult to do it that it just now... once again - these proposals were tabled a week ago - a week ago! And only when those proposals were tabled a week ago, we again - a surprise, a surprise! - reads that the government has finally announced to us - finally the government has announced to us! - that yes, summer camps could work. Well, I don't know, thank you then to yourself, to the opposition, I don't know if it's a coincidence or how, but the opposition proposal is put forward, the government finally... finally realized that summer is there, so to say, and finally comes with some statements that summer camps will be there. This now does not matter - I think colleagues, will you support or support that proposal. Here, too, it seems that the government has moved. But you colleagues... I don't know if you have children, maybe you'll understand that if you have children for whom you are planning or have applied for that summer camp... Only now, only now is some clarity emerging. Do you really think it is acceptable to do so with people? That's acceptable: how does the government work? I don't know what's wrong here. Ministry of Education and Science... or the Ministry of Education and Science does not allow the Ministry of Health to reach any agreement. I don't know what... I don't care, colleagues. Clearly, the fault is the government, because only a few days before the beginning of the summer, come with clarity as to whether or not there will be - well, that is not acceptable, colleagues! Do what you want.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U71	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U72	Madam President, colleagues. To be honest, I have to agree with Mr. Neighbours. I'm reading the news right now and I can see that as of June 1, the hockey championship will be on the scene. Coalition, why are we looking at this bill at all right now? There may not have been five minutes there, there could have been at all a few minutes for tabling proposals. Why are you fooling people who hope for a consistent course of action on the part of the Saeima? Let's read the news, and there will be all the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U73	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U74	In the Commission, proposal 9 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U75	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - the proposal tabled by Members Dombrovskis and Papules! Please, let's vote! About - 28, against - 49, abstaining - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U76	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from Members Dombrovskis and Papule. Provision is made for parents to compensate for the cost of the summer camp for children and young people - EUR 200 per child. The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U77	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U78	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Honorable society! Well, this is a proposal, on which neither the ruling coalition nor the government, as I understood, have any idea, at least there are no plans or ideas to do anything like that. But, colleagues, again... especially if you have children. Your children, our children have been at home for more than a year. It's all insulation. Isolation from your friends, from other children, sitting at the screen or not sitting down as if learning... I think that what will be the effect of these so-called teachings will probably only be understood in years' time, but we are already seeing that several thousands of children are likely to stay for the second year, because it is clear that all of its remote teachings are, indeed, hardly any effective ones. What happens to the children psychologically? Very good question. I think we... about what we think, even if we think it's bad, we even... It's probably just the tip of the iceberg -- what we see is bad. I think that sitting it at home for the whole year may have had a very serious psychological impact on children. In this situation, especially in view of the fact that, if the government really does, to say that, not only is it talking about the importance of its scientific and evidence-based approach, but it also understands something about how it spreads the virus... Well, the government should definitely have understood that the possibilities of the outdoor space are very wide, that everything that was risky to do indoors, outdoors during the summer, could be done. And why... I think it is absolutely clear why the government has not thought about how to work, how to help parents to employ children, how to try to compensate for everything that was done with children in schools or not, how to at least try to compensate them during the summer. How to do this, how to try to restore the psychological state of children in those children's camps, balance so that they communicate with their teenagers again, with their... or at all with friends. How can you use this time to help them learn what they have not learned during the course of this year? I understand in this way that the government has absolutely not thought about this. Absolutely! So today we are in a position where, unfortunately, we can only rely on what the private sector is capable of delivering... or municipalities, the private sector and municipalities in this summer camp area. Our proposal is at least to do what is possible. Of course, it's kids at least... Well, thank you, we have some clarity now that its summer camps could be. I very much hope that the Ministry of Health in its best traditions will not damage its own, so to say, epidemiological requirements in the outdoors so that it would not be... its summer camps. So what can be done - since its summer camps are quite expensive, its costs per child for 10 days, for two weeks could be around 200-300 euros, our proposal is to encourage, motivate, help parents send their children to summer camps. I think it's not just children... not only your parents but also your children will thank you very much for this. I call for support, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U79	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U80	Madam President, colleagues. Well, it must be admitted that the government has indeed, as far as it can be understood, given certain funding - not nearly 2.2 million, or something like that - for organising summer camps for municipalities. And the estimates of how many children can participate in them are - almost 30,000. We know that the number of pupils is much higher, even without grades 9 and 12 - almost 200,000. This means that those children who will have the opportunity to participate in such camps, regardless of their parents' socio-economic situation or their interests, as the camps will choose from the range they offer... Well, this number of children is unforgivable, it is a very small part, given that pupils have not been studying in the usual environment for more than a year, have not been studying in person, and to some extent have not had peer-to-peer communication. Our proposal would allow all parents who consider it necessary to be able to send their children to at least one day's or day's camp. Indeed, the calculations are also based on those used by government representatives, so that their costs for daily or daily camps would indeed be adequate or similar and that would be a single camp. At this point, if the camp offer in the municipality was partially covered for the state budget, then we know that summer camps and classes, well, in that respect, also day lessons, are offered by many certified camp operators. And that gives you an opportunity, repeat it again, for all those children whose parents consider it necessary to participate to some extent in the camps. It would not even be important whether it is sport, culture or a camp where children acquire more competences in one of the fields or subjects where there may have been fewer learning outcomes. It must be possible to compensate for this. First of all, compensation for peer-to-peer communication. Compensating it during the summer is likely also in outdoors, thus building up some strength for health. We would call for this proposal to be supported, despite the fact that the coalition - not in today's debate but in yesterday's debate - has criticised the fact that EUR 500 has already been given to parents and can be used for this. But let me remind you that in official rhetoric, representatives of the government and, as the case may be, representatives of the coalition Members indicated to whom to use this money, including no camps. Thus, the parents could not, first of all, know that there would be summer camps at all, because the government did not report it as a possible activity, which it is planning to do. Secondly, if this funding may have already been spent. Thirdly, it may be designed for other purposes. And fourthly, it does not seem to be ethical to indicate who really would then use a certain benefit. Consequently, such funding is easy to calculate as it is generally necessary. If sports and cultural activities were allowed, then smaller benefits would have to be paid to entrepreneurs and employees who are absent. The use of this money would then probably even be adequate and would not increase either the loan or any previous calculation. I'd ask you to think... if you do not think about adults, think about children, including adolescents. As I have already mentioned, depression, unwillingness to learn (there is also a lack of desire to go out of the house), unwillingness to do something other than to use information and communication technologies. Consequently, mental health - and I would once again stress teenagers and perhaps younger children - is very important, but the country does not have a plan to work with mental health and to improve it, especially in the context of the community, or to prevent its consequences. This would therefore be a small step, including governments, possibly a plus in supporting parents, allowing children to stay in at least one day in summer with state support if their parents have chosen it, in the day camp or in the day camp. Perhaps, though, look not only at yourself in the mirror, but look at your citizens, at the citizens of the country, especially children, and take care of your support this summer. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U81	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U82	Colleagues! I thank my colleagues, Mr Dombrovskis and Mrs Papules, for their proposal. It is a pity that we are unable to join this initiative, because, in fact, already at the end of last spring, several parental organisations had raised this issue about paid camps for children in the light of a debate with government representatives and talking about the issue because, well, then... then there were a few months of this so-called pandemic crisis, and the parents were not yet aware that there would be another long and terrible year ahead with all the distance training. Even then, in 2020, parents asked for an opportunity, since such a reward, relief for their contribution to remote learning, as a bonus... help them, including their children, to participate in such camps in the form of a bonus. But now that a whole year has passed, when children are almost a year... Well, we can say that, it's really almost a whole school year was. At the very beginning, there was a little time when the children were together. Indeed, this socialisation is necessary for children - that is what I am thinking of. I hope no one disputes. But even more so, parents need help. And parents need both financial support and moral support. Parents need to see their children happy, happy, rested, and slightly ventilated. What we heard from Mr Sever on the Commission was really funny. Obviously, this 500 euro, which the government, together with the opposition, had decided to give to parents for every child in the opinion, perhaps also in Mr Sever's opinion, is like a whirlpool from the Slave fairy tale, which returns every time it is spent back, not in the pocket, but in the parents' account. For those 500 euros, according to the government, parents had to buy everything, pay bills that they could not pay because they could not work, buy a mandatory computer for the child, because not every child had the opportunity to get this computer from the municipality, and of course they had to pay camps. That was the answer from Mr Severa when Mrs Papules also argued that private operators would therefore... However, parents will need money to pay for their private lives. This is about municipalities. But, as colleagues have pointed out, there are very few such places. And the answer is really devastating. I call on my colleagues from the government and the ruling coalition to stop mentioning once this 500 euro as a universal patch for all the spending that is now on families, large families, especially with regard to both remote training and the whole terrible year that we have had. Therefore, I would really call on you to support this proposal, because such a proposal is also very much asked to support a number of parental organisations which have requested an open letter and a request for such funding for each child in relation to camps. Please support me very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U83	Colleagues, we will continue the debate after a break. Registration of Members. Registration is over. Interruption until 5.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U84	Dear Members, Honourable Members! This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Consequently, a debate on 10 has been launched. - a proposal from Members Vjačeslav Dombrovskis and Evija Papule. The floor in the debate is for Mr Rainis Znotiņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U85	Hello, dear colleagues! Although it must be said, on the part of the opposition, this problem has been properly identified, it is worth mentioning the various things the government has done and the Ministry of Education and Science has been moving to address this problem in order to allow children to meet in the summer to allow this contact and to regain the joy of life, that is to say. And I'll just mention a few. First of all, this one, which colleagues mentioned in their discussions... The government has given... and today, the Cabinet of Ministers has approved regulations on the development of camps, which means that epidemiologically safe camps have been run. The government has allocated an additional €2.2 million here. It has to be recognised and said that these 2.2 million are not the only funds available, a large part of the funding, most likely even most, is in the municipal budgets, and municipalities from their budgets, as usual, organise these camps. This aid of 2,2 million is in addition to what the municipalities have already planned and planned and is in addition granted by the State as an aid mechanism. Nor should we forget this psycho-emotional support... Thus, over a million, too, and this support is directed more specifically at disadvantaged, say, groups of the population and groups of young people. Here too, it is intended to work in the form of camps with young people, with a direct focus on perhaps, yes, socially disadvantaged groups. So it's coming. He also mentioned this 500 euros... allowance already granted by the government for each child’s parent. So it's coming. So, let's say, this package of support mechanisms that I am mentioning here is quite an important support and will be able to offer a variety of camps and different opportunities not only for these 30 000 children, but well, much more for young people, because we need to take into account both local government support and this psycho-emotional... emotional... separate funding, where it will therefore be organised throughout the summer through youth organisations. So thank you to colleagues for the current problem, but there is really good work done here and serious support mechanisms have been found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U86	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis in the debate for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U87	Good afternoon, colleagues! I think I do not want to talk today about the extent to which what the Ministry of Education and Science is already doing in this area is, or is not, sufficient. I think it is far from enough, but now, at least, it is good that something is being done. The main thing I can say, colleagues, is that... I would like to point out that Reinis Znotiņš is the rare parliamentary secretary, who is not afraid here, in the debate in the Saeima, to openly argue and defend the position of his ministry. I do not remember in any way from other ministries a lot of them. If such cases have occurred, much, much less. So here, I think Mr. Znotiņš is a good example for your coalition, colleagues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U88	The name of the Member Evia Papulei in the debate for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U89	Thank you, Madam President. And my colleagues too... I just want to add one thing: the measures mentioned by the Parliamentary Secretary in the field of education are probably related to other measures, but... and will not allow all children to enjoy the advantages that can only be brought by the summer camp, the possibility to really be outside, not always in the premises to do so. Our proposal makes it possible for virtually all children whose parents have decided to do so. I very much hope that the actions undertaken will also be a continuation. And this proposal, in fact, is saying that it must not stop, it cannot be said that it has been done enough and that, but there are still ways and there are three months to come for the summer, where this type of support will be needed. It is possible that this type of support can really last as long as Latvian circumstances allow it, because the camps can not only be outside, but also inside. It may also be that, from the start of the next school year, the organisation of such camps after the school time (i.e. in the second half of the day or on Saturdays on Sundays) may be very, very necessary, whether it is related to psychological support or to support in increasing learning attainment, since, as is well known, this year will not have given very many children what they themselves could learn by learning under the guidance of teachers. So it can already be that... If it is recognised as a good proposal, then modifications can be, but nevertheless, it could be, as a support for parents, because parents would decide what kind of assistance is needed not only in summer but also in September and October, so that, perhaps, no further learning difficulties arise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U90	I closed the debate. For the Commission, Mrs. Steel... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U91	The Commission did not support the 10th proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U92	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - the proposal tabled by Members Vjačeslav Dombrovskis and Evija Papule! Please vote mode! On - 28, against - 56, abstaining - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U93	11. - the proposal from Members Eglišs and Feldman. Provision is made to allow medical persons to provide services elsewhere than in medical institutions as they currently do. The proposal did not support the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U94	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U95	Good afternoon, fellow Members, this sunny day! This proposal came up at a commission meeting with four votes against. Consequently, the proposal was technically rejected, including by a double vote. But - why was this contentious situation then, and why do I refer this proposal, as I say, to all Members at the sitting? This is due to the fact that this proposal was also presented from the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. It is also from me, but then from the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy unanimously in bill No. 1066 Lp13. This is the second draft law that is co-directed through the Saeima. And why was there unanimous support for this proposal in the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy? It seems a little strange that we are talking that all medical professionals are allowed to provide services regardless of the address of the workplace, which... It seems like... Well, why wouldn't you do it? Well, how it happened, how it didn't, but there's such a problem... There really is. It's what I'd call it... one such, either, will review problems to a large extent, which may have arisen for officials. That is why the Competition Council, which also addressed the Ombudsman, drew attention to this problem at the time, to be more accurate, on 31 March. And the Ombudsman, on 8 April this year, actually turned to... wherever possible, starting from the head of government, ending with... Thus, in response to the Competition Council... and also addressed the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption and the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. And he says, as he says, ladies and gentlemen: there are professions in the relevant MK rules that create unequal and anti-competitive practices and a discriminatory situation depending on where the specific services are provided. This is the case in particular for medical persons, services provided by medical persons. I would remind you that medical persons and support persons are registered in the special health inspection register in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Cabinet of Ministers. It is not so that everyone can imagine that he is a medical person, and so to be called. In this case, there is therefore a special health inspection register, where these persons are present. And there are those professions where, for some reason, if you work in one type of institution, you can provide services if you cannot provide services in another type of institution. And for this, of course, the Ombudsman, who was recently elected to the Saeima with a very strong number of votes, expressed his great indignation. What is good news? The good news is that the Ministry of Health is also very... has already begun work on this issue and has already noticed the problem itself. Today's first decisions have followed that, as of 1 June, representatives of the profession concerned can therefore also start work - all medical professionals - but outside medical institutions - only if they have been vaccinated. But if you work at medical institutions, you may not have been vaccinated. Well, I... I appreciate this step. And we know at all, the work of the Cabinet of Ministers has significantly improved since the examination of food terraces in the Saeima. Therefore, I believe that the Ombudsman would again have reason to address a letter to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption and to the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs that there is ongoing discrimination once again. In this respect, I tabled in this draft law the same proposal that the Commission had put forward in it... in the second, and I put it to a simple vote, colleagues, to your vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U96	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U97	Thank you, honourable President. Thank you, Mr Feldman, for your open reference to the fact that today the Cabinet of Ministers has already adopted a decision that Members will have rejected today after the sitting because of masking... Members do not support the wearing of masks under any circumstances - either vaccinated or sick or anyone else - but the government has been very nice and has allowed one group of people to take part in some movement and in some of the activities that we are discussing very long ago. Thank you also for pointing out that, in this case, there is a little contradiction between what we really support. You've offered... which is also in the context of our various proposals, which have already been carefully rejected, despite the fact that similar government actions have already been supported. But you, as a representative of the coalition, see an opportunity at all to eliminate this to some extent contradiction in the same proposals that you are currently presenting as representatives of the coalition and what the government is deciding at the moment? And do you think that the question of terraces will give you an opportunity to balance these activities not only in the context of government... how they run counter... but now also in your context, working in the Saeima. I also call for this proposal to be supported, but it does, however, create such a discourse and discomfort between your own decisions, because you are discussing it in a particular forum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U98	The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U99	Dear President, I really want to assure you that Member Krišjānis Feldman very precisely referred to what was being said in the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. This proposal, with identical content, was indeed unanimously supported. During the Commission's meeting, a large number of different opinions were heard, including the opinion of the Ministry of Health. And we also tabled such a proposal in the parallel bill, which the Member has already spoken about. For its part, the law did not really support such a proposal because, in my opinion, it did not provide precise information to the members of the commission. If we look at the Medical Law, we know that all these practices are registered at the Health Inspectorate. They shall be checked before being registered. The persons registered in the medical record are certified, trained and thus have sufficient competence directly in health matters to provide these services. I must say honestly that what is happening in parallel today on Twitter, in various news channels, in the government sitting and here in the Saeima creates some discomfort for a number of Members. I can hear that from my colleagues, because we are dealing with parallel issues. In the past, many Members have both put forward their proposals and talked about this subject in various forms of cooperation, and what we did not really do is happen here suddenly... What we didn't really expect. So I'd like to say that this time I'd ask... I call for this proposal to be supported. It is logical, rational and also previously supported by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy and, for entirely logical reasons, it is also feasible. I have to say, colleagues, that we are working very well, because all the proposals that have been put forward earlier or later and are logical and do not affect the epidemiological risks and therefore the spread of the disease - I do not see why they cannot be supported. This is one of the proposals that the Commission has supported and that the sector is committed to. And the Ministry of Health did not object. The only one who objected was the state's main official, who quite, let us say, tried to point out something to Members in such an elevated tone. I think it's not the person who's the only one who can decide here on these issues. Because, however, when we listen to experts, when we listen to the industry, when we listen to each other, when we debate matters, we take competent decisions. That is why this is one of the very good proposals that have been tabled. I call on you, colleagues, to support this too. Whether this happens in parallel with other sittings or not - it is not essential - we need to strengthen this issue. I therefore call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U100	I closed the debate. Vita Anda Steel, on behalf of the... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U101	On behalf of the Commission, the proposal did not support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U102	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - the proposal tabled by Members Gata Eglišs and Krišjānis Feldman! Please vote mode! For - 44, for - 37, for - 3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U103	12. - the proposal of Members Stepanenko, Svekova and Srūde. Provision is made for the authorisation of indoor hockey and figure skating classes for children and young people. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U104	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U105	Dear colleagues, First of all, I congratulate Mr Feldman and Mr Eglitis for their victory. We are also pleased and supported. Our proposal also coincides with your proposal. And I am very sorry that this was not supported by the Commission and that in the Commission some Members chose to vote better in favour of the next proposal. This needs to be discussed in general, because our proposal differs from the next proposal with the fact that we do not require hockey coaches to be vaccinated. You yourself must also know perfectly that we cannot impose such a requirement on those who are vaccinated, even if we are playing under your new rules, where the sorting of people begins: those who are vaccinated, unvaccinated; the first group will always belong to those who have been overloaded - well, according to your logic. Unfortunately, however, we do not find this in this proposal, and I would ask very much for an opportunity to vote in favour of our proposal. The second question, why should we support our proposal, is technically the possibility that this proposal should enter into force and operate, because it states specifically that it is permissible, by law, but unfortunately your proposal... And I don't want to try to argue with you in any way right now, or to criticise you, but in practice your proposal means that we will have to wait for special requirements from the Cabinet. I don’t want to repeat the situation, as it were. — Sound Break. ... that the Saeima decided that then the government seemed to think, wolves and long waiting for something else. This proposal is quite specific and I will therefore also ask you to support and vote in favour of it. Fifty square meters on the child, without dressing rooms... Align with parents... The hockey parents, who are among the most active in our Latvia, who are writing letters to Members and asking to join in about children's sports, who have asked to allow children's hockey for several months, and everything agreed with the Latvian Hokey Federation, are absolutely clear rules of the game... and understand the rules of the game, how it should happen... and manageable with it. Of course, you also know that athletes are one of the most disciplined people, and in this case some strange texts from the Ministry of Health in the Commission on hockey games, I think are offensive for both children who play hockey and their parents, for whom it is the other job, as well as hockey coaches. So I call on you to support this proposal and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U106	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U107	You understand that absurdity that the Ministry of Health - the Ministry of Health! - bans children from exercising. It's just sick. It is not the Ministry of Health; it is the Ministry of Health. Nothing else can be said here. I'm sure you should let me go! What another 50 feet [50 m] and what a training! Just have to let people do sports, children do sports. The more people sports, the healthier they are. Somehow I have not noticed that those who are playing sports would suffer terribly all the time, constantly with viruses and everything else. Who's sick? Those who sit at home; those who are overweight. Do you see those athletes who are there all the time playing hockey hall? They're sick all the time? The Gagarina Cup was recently. Bob Hartley won. Gagarina's full of triples, thousands of people. Did you see the sick there? Right beyond the border, St. Petersburg is not very far from Riga, by the way, with the car can go, quite quickly to it still. Everybody's okay like a routine. But no! Children should sit at home or knock around, drink. That's what you're offering. It is offered by the Ministry of Health and approved by this coalition. Slim! It's just sick, it's inconceivable! If it's quite honest, it's quiet... half of Latvia is training quietly. Is that not the case? That's it. Thank God for allowing people, at least by silence, to do so. Do it, people, do it! Get out of here! Wear them all the restrictions because they are ill. They are not focused on improving health care, they are aimed at making you healthier, so that you have worse health, so that you get more sick, so that you have lower immunity and everything else. Squeeze! Every stupid and dreadful decision you make is to be hurled on! Do it! Just like the ruling coalition, you and your lives are being warned, your children's lives, your children's education, your working life, your right to rejoice, meet. You can't go to the watch tonight. You're gonna sit in the sunny night until midnight. You can't, you can't. Because we have a globalist government. The only goal is to please, maybe someone will get a craft in Brussels, I don't know, Kariņš or Rinkēvičs, or Kols, or who after his career in Latvia. Like Dombrovskis. The position in Brussels is, but what benefit does Latvia derive from it? We're richer than Dombrovskis serving those foreigners there? No, no! We are one of the poorest countries in Europe and are becoming increasingly poor. Leids and Estonians are getting more and more away from us, and during our lives they can no longer be achieved thanks to such dombrovskis, martial law and all this coalition, all these sick decisions. The biggest achievement is to talk about whether to show on the snout bottles how much there calories are there. Well, then they're gonna drink and count calories. That is the biggest thing this coalition can do. Then it's nice to steal something... The criminal proceedings were even initiated somewhere. The Viņķelis had to resign from some other position. Turn around, people! Dear people, ignore simply! The more you ignore, the sooner this will end. Don't be afraid to ignore! I'm quiet. I also trained quietly. Here, where I also have a sports outfit, I'll go quietly to train right after the Saeima sitting. Do it all! Squeeze! I want to live healthy lives. You also want to live healthy lives, you want your children to live healthy lives, just do it! I really call on you to do so, because sick decisions that make public health worse do not have to be followed. And they too... It is a crime to follow them. What is better for people who are improving their quality of life should be taken into account. Sport improves people's quality of life, hockey improves quality of life, figure skating improves quality of life, art exercise improves quality of life. Everything related to joy improves the quality of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U108	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U109	Yes, also on hockey and, more rightly, on events taking place in ice halls, and on various training events, including children. Well, here's got to be so smart, because the hockey hall is still standing without ice... It is quite expensive to freeze it again, for example. And it would be very, very silly if some mistakes were made and then it would turn out that it should be melted off again and then frozen again. This particular proposal cannot be supported because it simply says that everything is allowed, only to respect 50 square metres. And specific lessons - so hockey and figure skating. For me now, the question is why... What do you have against the shortcut? What do you have against it? Well, I'm calling for you not to oppose this, especially the new ones, and that's why I mean... Our proposal, by the way, is not resolved - proposal 13. And I mean, how can we make progress? That is why I contacted representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science who are in contact with representatives of the Ministry of Health. As I said, the Ministry of Health has indeed activated the work, and we can see that the process is going in such a good direction. As we know, from 1 June we will be able to... will be available for those who have fully vaccinated to watch for hockey. I won't be among them. But... the idea is that already on Monday is going to direct an adequate regulation to the operational management group, just like... Either, perhaps just like the hockey championship, a pilot project for all indoor events that could then be applied to cultural activities. Like Eurovision was in the Netherlands as part of a special national programme, this hockey hall training issue could be a pilot event in Latvia. And then it could be applied to all other exercises. As I can see, well, at least talking to people... and responsible officials that they are determined to move within the framework of regulation so that they once freeze their ice halves, where youth training could take place, and then stay frozen. Do not show any ice sports somehow superior... For example, there is only a hockey or figure skating... more than others. Given that there is this reasonable... Well, I see it as a step forward in the executive, first of all, I withdrew my signature from proposal 13. I call for this proposal to be rejected and for one reservation to be observed. If maybe the executive fails so well this... implementation of such better regulation, for example, at the Cabinet of Ministers' Tuesday sitting, then we will return to this issue again at the Saeima. But I believe I believe! - really good. I believe that everyone knows very well how the epidemiological situation in Latvia has improved since the opening of the terraces. And I am not saying that there is a causal link, but well, simply the fact that we do not have India here and that we have an increasing vaccination coverage. Thank you, by the way, for the Ministry of Health, which then... when vaccines are available, that's the case, too. In this respect, I call for this proposal to be rejected. As I said, I withdrew my signature from proposal 13. And so far, Tuesday sitting of the Cabinet of Ministers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U110	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U111	Dear colleagues, Well, we all get a lot of letters with you from many sports schools, from parents whose children are engaged in hockey. There was even a video where children themselves demand: “Let us play sports!” And they're right. During the Commission's time, the Minister for Health said today that it was really from Daugavpils's hockey school that an epidemic began in the autumn. Well, I don't agree with that. I don't know how sick it was in the autumn of Daugavpils, but Latgale was a very high indicator during this wave of the pandemic... than in the first. Why? Because again the pandemic started at a very high level both in Belarus and Lithuania, we had an open border and people, our Latvians, actively traveled both to one country and to another country and brought their virus. That was also our mistake: that our authorities did not set a border when we had to react very quickly. I asked the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption already in September, what happened to us at our borders, how do we check? The Interior Minister's answer was that we do nothing; the borders are open. Then appeared October... We know that... What did Mr Feldman say about the 12th proposal now? That one proposal does not interfere with the other. If we supported proposal 12, also proposal 13 simply complements proposal 12. They are identical, only 13. - I guess it's wider. But the hockey too... You don't think the hockey can only be played in such a way that one team against the other team. Hockeys are also just driving through the ice, they need to train as well... various cubes, pyrutetes... and also to work with a tire. And individually they can work, not necessarily so that in one hour will come immediately 20 or 30 children, can come every hour of 10 people, and it can also be calmly regulated by the trainer, whether he is vaccinated or not. But in every hall there are also medical staff who can check the temperature - have a temperature or not. And parents also need to... They are wise and watch their child feel, and do not bring their child if he is sick or ill. We also need to think about it, not think that, well, everyone is not smart. People are very wise and careful as well. You said, though, that children could be a health hazard. Well, let's see if our children in primary school didn't go to school, but the preschool institutions all worked, they worked all winter if there were no cases of disease... So you can. You can do it here, too. Many children currently have psychological problems, and school psychologists cannot help them because they have a big line. Well, let's at least let those people who want to play sports want to move so that they're moving. Let's see what happened to sports grounds outside schools in just microdistricts. There are 20-30 people in every square who climb, attract, do something else. And the problem is there, that no one is disinfecting them... all simulators. Then it is our lack, our lack of local authorities. Most importantly, and most sadly, unfortunately, decisions are made by people who do not understand anything from sport themselves and do not do sport themselves. And those people make decisions - which is the worst. I call, however, if you don't understand anything, listen, talk to other specialists and make the right decision. I call for support for both proposals 12 and 13. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U112	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U113	Dear President, Colleagues! I call for this proposal to be supported. Listening to the speakers of the coalition, comes to mind the song “Everything you will have”. And I wouldn’t even ask, “When?” , but I would say, “Where?” Will it be in another country or government in 3050? Wait, and you'll have everything once. I don't know if people believe this song. But, on this proposal, I would like to remind you that indeed the government has not yet complied with our whole joint decision at the end of January: to revitalise the sport area, or resuscitation, and to enable sport to live not only under the conditions of the community, but also to gradually leave the community, so to say, to live a new life at a time of reduction of restrictions. Answers are not from the responsible ministry, where the head of the parliamentary sub-commission, who is willing to debate alcohol today, but (at least, I do not see that he has applied for) does not want to say anything about his responsibility... at least the area managed by the Commission. In any case, if you really opened your e-mails and read letters from your parents, then what I would like to add to what Members of the Coalition say is: if you let the hockeys, the young hockeys, also during the summer, you will not need so much money for summer camps, because here the parents do not require any support, but ask their children to be allowed to do their favourite sports, including summer. These children would be able not to use the 2.2 million (in less than 300 000 children's public funding), not to use, perhaps also, local government support, but, as usual, to have parental funding in sports activities without using any other psychological or other support that we are talking about, which children need, but these children would solve it in a way that is acceptable and with a proven effect. I invite you to support it, and to be honest, I do not hear this song “All you will have” and I do not believe that everything we will have once again because I asked... I do not ask: ‘When?’ , but I think the question “Where?” you can't answer yourself, because the 3050s is hardly an adventure for you. Please support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U114	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U115	Colleagues! Then, when the Saeima voted last Thursday in favour of the task of the government to allow some groups to watch the hockey, and when it became clear that the government Saeima has shown who is here the most important thing, then... And the next day you saw that the hockey is still watching the chosen ones, including the Minister of New Unity... After all these events... Can you really say, Mr Feldman, that you believe in the good? I wonder if it's naive or if it really is lying. If we talk about the call to support hockey and figure skating trainings, then we also talk about individual trainings that maybe you find difficult to imagine. Those hockey exercises take place to a child with all the equipment he has a helmet. I really don't know how, if you don't use the wardrobe, that's your community that could stick to that kid. I really find it hard to imagine why we should get out of the ice if, the only thing, your dear Karin will have figured out that we're making everything hard again. But with all the other conditions, we should allow both hockey, figure skating and a shortcut. You can safely complement this sport... You have all the opportunities, you are always in all groups and you work or you are not working, but you can do that. What we can do is we can listen to the appeal of the parents and support the parents, the stronger hockey parents, who have written very many letters to us. And you too, Mr. Feldman. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U116	The name to Member Roman Money.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U117	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Indeed, this is a very topical issue now in the hockey... Latvian hockey family, Latvian hockey parents, children who have been in the regions and also in Riga for half a year! - can't play and train. Figure skaters too. Well, sometimes the video rollers I see on Facebook, where figure skaters set out how they do their pyrutes on asphalt... I can imagine how they feel when their neighbors, in Estonia and Lithuania, children and young people of their age fly, are fully trained, but they do their pyrutes not on ice, but on asphalt. That's why, colleagues... A few months ago, if I am not mistaken, we voted in favour of this issue. We voted in favour of indoor sports so that the Cabinet allows. Nothing has happened so far, unfortunately. And for this, we rejected a similar proposal several months ago. So that, my fellow Members, I would call for this proposal to be supported. The Cabinet of Ministers will have nothing new and better, and more innovative, in terms of epidemiological safety rules, because the most important thing where its morbidity was promoted (this was mentioned here in Daugavpils) is the dressrooms. At that time, the use of dressing rooms was permitted. In this proposal, we specifically say that the wardrobes cannot be used and must come to training in full equipment. As a result, the risks of the disease are practically excluded. Hockey Halls have a very good ventilation to mitigate these risks. At the moment, the situation is that, yes, in a week's time, our children travel to neighbouring countries to play in competitions, as well as to participate in training camps and various other master classes. Several hundred children come from Latvia to neighbouring countries on the weekend. In Scandinavian countries too, hockey life has never stopped anywhere. All training shall be conducted with due regard for all safety measures. We've got a lot of... Many times we look at Estonia, Lithuania. Well, how about they're in economic front of us?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, How is it that they have a much better gross domestic product than Latvia... the same Estonians and Lithuanians. I looked at the data for 2019. For Estonia, gross domestic product per capita... not domestic product, but export of goods and services per capita is 15.3 thousand, for Latvia - 9.5. Hardly less. I think a few years more, and Estonia will be ahead of us twice. Lithuania also has much better indicators. Well, these are all kind of small nuances in various sectors of the economy, which pour into one dish and make up a set of goods and services exports. Also, the money that we... parents, hockey parents, currently leave the country and give it back to Lithuania, Estonia - the money could stay here in Latvia, which could be used in the Latvian economy subject to security rules. We and our parents are not demanding anything more than in Scandinavian countries and in the same Lithuania. Just let your children train carefully! This proposal is very correct and good. In full equipment, the children arrive and go immediately to the ground for skating. Trainers in sports schools can also carry out tests every week. Just as teachers and kindergarten teachers carry out tests, teachers can carry out tests every week, thus reducing risks. Colleagues! However, I would have asked for support. I understand that today the government has taken a decision on camps for children up to 20 people. There could be day camps, and this could possibly also apply to a hockey where children could live in a bubble and train in a hockey camp for a week, but ice halls cannot exist when one or two camps take place. The ice hall must be heavily loaded to return. If we organise such a camp in the regions - Rezekne or Daugavpils -... one or two, the hall cannot exist. It doesn't pay off. It is therefore necessary to renew full hockey training and figure skating classes so that the hallers are heavily burdened. Only this can help to open ice halles and pour ice on. Colleagues! I would ask for support for this proposal. As I said, the government will have nothing younger, and (A sound break.) ... Move forward (Sound rupture.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U118	The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U119	Dear colleagues, Member Roman Money has just outlined... very broad arguments. I'm not going to repeat it. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that a large part of the restrictions have to be reconciled with the Baltic neighbours, especially in the case of sport competitions, because these are possible in our neighbouring countries. I can also touch... on motocross competitions. Our country's citizens are travelling to neighbouring countries, they are visiting these competitions, but we cannot visit them here. The same applies to ice-halls, which were talked about by all Members on this proposal. It would therefore be logical to align these issues, because in fact we are talking about visiting epidemiologically safe hockeys, and this proposal provides for this. I, like my previous colleagues, also call for this proposal to be supported for reasons which have already been mentioned quite precisely by the previous speakers, especially by Member Romanus Naudins. Therefore, colleagues, I call for support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U120	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U121	While we are talking here, our hockey team, Latvia, is losing for the US team. I'm sure that if there were at least a thousand spectators in the booths, our strong fan group, they could help our team to win the US team as the sixth player. But this is not just about hockey. If the Prime Minister realized that, well, there may be some risk, as the Ministry of Health tells us... So let's open up and allow us to hold a competition, an individual competition that's outside, not inside, where there's nothing going on, where people don't act with each other, but - no, we have a position that - no! Forbid because I decided so, I don't want to, and that's it! No, no, no, no, no, no, So I invite you to think again wisely, with a cool head and make a decision that our Latvian athletes do not go to organize Latvian championships in Estonia or Lithuania, where federations already drive and organize, because it is prohibited in Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U122	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U123	The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U124	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - the proposal submitted by Members Julia Stepanenko, Lubova Svekova and Karina Sprūde! Please vote mode! For - 35, for - 41, for - 10. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U125	13. - the proposal from Members Eglišs and Feldman. Provision shall be made for the authorisation of indoor hoces for children and young people with certain requirements which should be complied with. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U126	Member Krišjānis Feldmans withdrew his signature for proposal 13, in the debate on proposal 12. The debate started on 13. - the proposal tabled by Member Gata Eglitis. Name to Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U127	Thank you. I also wanted to withdraw my signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U128	Thank you. The two applicants have therefore withdrawn their signatures. I closed the debate but requested a vote. Therefore, once again, on behalf of the Commission, Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U129	In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U130	Please call me! So, Mr. Eglys has also referred... Mr President, the vote you requested cannot take place because the two rapporteurs have withdrawn this proposal. Mr Eglišs did so just now in the debate. Therefore, proposal 13 cannot be put to the vote, as it has been withdrawn by both applicants. This would have been a debate, but the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U131	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of Members Stepanenko, Svekova and Srūde. It is planned to instruct the Cabinet to develop, within five days, a plan for the summer sports training process for children and young people, organisation of competitions and camps indoors and outdoors. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U132	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U133	Colleagues, I understand that, in part, something is moving in this direction and the Cabinet of Ministers decides something, but when we spoke yesterday at the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption on the same subject, I stressed that it is also very important to talk about competitions that no one is talking about at the moment. The health ministry's answer was like a really awakening from sleep - well, you know, we haven't even thought about it at all, there's no idea about the race at all, and it may be that only the vaccinated could take part in the competition. These were the considerations of the Ministry of Health when talking about planning children and young people's competitions. And we did not expect an answer from the Ministry of Health on how, in principle, officials have imagined vaccinating children with vaccines which, if we are talking about children of 12 years of age, have not yet really been approved. We are not talking about the right of parents to oppose such vaccines and the right of children to continue sports. I think that this case is an excellent illustration of the intelligence and interest of all our wise decision-makers - all our good, to whom Mr Feldman believes - in the whole process that they are entrusted with. With such insights and with such awareness, I think we will be waiting very long for some meaningful decisions from our officials, our ministries and our Cabinet of Ministers. And here we are talking about competitions, we are talking about different races. There is a design that is prohibited at this time, there is no race with horses, there is no motosacens. Any kind of race is currently prohibited, regardless of how big a threat is, for example, when a man is in a horse... back of the horse. I don't know how... the Ministry of Health has imagined this. Just like with motocers. Well, here I think there's just a very narrow view of things, no practical experience, only figures, paper, nothing more. I therefore call on you to support this proposal and, nevertheless, to change the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U134	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U135	The Commission did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U136	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - the proposal submitted by Members Julia Stepanenko, Lubova Svekova and Karina Sprūde! Please vote mode! About - 28, against - 54, abstaining - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U137	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Tatar's proposal. It is planned to instruct the Cabinet of Ministers to determine by 1 June the procedure for international sports competitions to take place in indoor sports with the participation of viewers. The proposal was rejected by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U138	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U139	Dear President, Dear colleagues, The specific proposal, as Mrs Steel has already mentioned, provides for a delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to draw up rules by 1 June, setting out safe requirements and procedures. I would like to highlight these two words how to organise the events of the sports competitions in the calendar of the international sports federations, including the events for sportsmen in the indoors and outdoors with the participation of viewers before the competitions. We are placing an interest on security and on the organisation of all these processes. At the moment we are reading the news that, in fact, on 1 June, in line with the request of the Latvian Hockey Federation, the government has already decided to allow this issue to follow the following principles... to do in a hockey. This proposal provides for other international competitions based on similar principles developed with the relevant international sports federations, with local sports federations... delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to ensure the safe presence of viewers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U140	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U141	Dear colleagues, Today, in defence of proposals 7 and 8, Mr. Kaimiņš had said that he had ever worked in a theatre. I think we all continue to work in the theatre, and that's an absurd theatre. Absurda theatre, in which for a long time goes the same plays called “Big Break, Little Wool”. The proposal under discussion today, which we are talking about now, has already actually been rejected by the Commission, not because... probably not because it is not feasible, but because it has already been implemented, because what the information agencies and the media say about the decisions made means that all the discussion that is going on today on the draft law has been delayed. In principle, in order to allow what is provided for in the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers from 1 June or 15 June, this means that the document in question must be ready and the software in question must be developed and tested. Therefore, we should look not at questions about the task of the Cabinet of Ministers to draw up a certificate of this kind or something else, but about the task of... not even on the task, but on the status of the document, which is its legal and legal status, what it may do, what it cannot do, where it is to be used, where it has been developed and where it is to be issued, and so on, and so on. We have delayed, and so it is a really absurd theatre in which we all play a rather shameful role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U142	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U143	I have to make some adjustments to the previous speaker's text on what is absurd theatre and what is "Big Break, little wool". So I'll start from the oldest. So the oldest is “Big greasy, little wool”. The author is William Shakespeare. It's comedy. And William Shakespeare has lived if I don't lie, 1600... Forty years, something like that. It's the theater. Mr Dolgopolov, well, you are one of the most experienced, also in terms of body, physical, Members of this Parliament, if we look at the passport. Then you should understand that an absurd theatre... It arose, well, maybe when you were aged 15, maybe. Maybe seven. Well, in that time. This theatre, in turn, tried to update and show just as Maļevičs “Black Square”, which he himself made, and it was already a symbol of the way forward. Daniel Harms. Daniel Harms was put in a razonam for his absurd theater. It happened before Stalin came to power, because no one understood what Harms really wanted to say, how that art goes across all borders. And that's how he stayed in that trench. I think he didn't live for more than 45 years. Gennie he was. It was Daniel Harms. Well, here I hate that adult people mix concepts, mix everything in the same racial, I don't know, and this way they build their own arguments. Mr Dolgopolov! I understand that, at the moment, the chair of the sitting has full rights and should intervene long ago in my speech on the fact that I am not talking about the proposal, because I am only talking about your argument, which must be corrected. I am truly sorry that we lost the American hockey today, but we cannot build our future in this way, without knowing our past, if we confuse an absurd theatre with William Shakespeare's comedy "Big Brewery, Little Wool". So thank you, and please vote after your conscience. Mr Tawar, will we be on the theatre or on the proposal? Please, you have a name.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U144	The name of the Member, Edgars Tavars, in the debate for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U145	Please support proposal 15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U146	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U147	(Sound rupture) ... for a brief lesson in love, about what is absurd theatre, and about everything else. I know he went wrong at school, but well, I didn't know it was so crazy. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U148	I closed the debate. Member Vita Anda Steel on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U149	The Commission did not support the proposal 15.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U150	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 15. - Member Edgara Tatar's proposal! Please vote mode! There's no one for - 30, against - 56, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U151	16. - the proposal of Members Stepanenko, Svekova and Srūde. Provision is made for the provision of wider trading services than is currently provided. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U152	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U153	Dear colleagues, We call for the correction of the error that was made for incomprehensible reasons and which, we understand, will now also try to correct the Constitutional Court. We are talking about the abolition of 25 square meters; instead of setting at least those 15 square meters per visitor, so that we can help restore at least some movement in trade. We are in cooperation with trade... We have submitted such a proposal to the Latvian Traders Association, and the Traders Association also supports this proposal together with the Latvian Employers' Confederation, which I understand was not given today because of a lack of time. However, we call on you to respect these taxpayers, who have been fighting for their rights for months, for incomprehensible reasons in their actions, in their actions. The fact that both terraces and a little light trade opportunities were discovered at the moment, making people search for entry to their favorite store by means of escape exits, does not in any way reflect epidemiological indicators. This proves once again that the government's decision to ban the provision of this type of trade services was a mistake, which we very much hope will have to pay the government's representatives. Thank you. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U154	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U155	The Commission did not support the proposal 16.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U156	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - the proposal submitted by Members Julia Stepanenko, Lubova Svekova and Karina Sprūde! Please vote mode! For - 27, for - 39, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U157	17. - the proposal of Members Stepanenko, Svekova and Srūde. Provision is made for the provision of catering services in outdoors from 6.00 to 24.00. The proposal did not support the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U158	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U159	Colleagues! I motivated my proposal partly by the fact that people are currently meeting on the terraces, watching hockey, following all the epidemiological requirements. When, for example, a hockey game takes place in the evening, then at 21.00 it is already necessary to turn everything out and go away. It is quite inhumane in relation to hockey fans. And the fact that this working time for terraces is really so short... keeping these now summer evenings... where the long summer evenings will soon come, where the light will remain very long. People are thirsty for walking and for safe, distance communication. What we heard from the Ministry of Health... I think I'm gonna have to call Mr. Kaimiņš here so that maybe he can find a suitable performance name for what we heard on the commission. In this case, the Ministry of Health said that long stay on the terraces after 21.00 means alcohol consumption and therefore the commission of some other violations. I really have to be upset by those who think that people in the terraces just drunk up - mostly drunk after 21.00 - or watch the hockey. We know that there is a different way of life, a normal way of life, operated by most of our people who sit on the terraces and speak peacefully - beautiful, peaceful, honest, well behave. I do not know where the Ministry of Health has such data, but the Ministry of Health was unable to respond to our proposal. We must, I think, support this proposal. I also very much call on the coalition to support this proposal, help our catering providers recover from this terrible year and also provide services to people who work late evenings, help them a little, a little joy this spring and summer. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U160	Name to Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U161	Thank you. Colleagues, a few weeks ago we decided to open out the terraces, and I think that was a very good decision. That is something we all see. And it has not in any way affected the prevalence of Covid-19. I think this proposal is very logical and sensible, and I will call for support, because I really do not see the reasons why we should maintain this limit for economic operators at 21.00. ( Pause) I'm sorry, I had something in the Saeima's office here... So this restriction is illogical, why we should limit working time by 21.00 now, because it is clear that there are no correlations - now it will work by 22.00 or 22.30 - that this will somehow affect these risks of infection. So I'm calling for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U162	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U163	Colleagues! Julia, I wasn't present at those sittings, I didn't see it... I also did not hear their arguments from the Ministry of Health. But your question. It's all really simple if you understand their scheme. So the father of drama in the world is William Shakespeare, and he has written 38 plays. I think 38 or 36? In my opinion, 38. And 38 plays never repeat, they are 38 different dramatic situations. Either there is handing over, or there is politics, or there is lies, or there is love, or there is indignant, or there is jealousy. And in this way, the respected William Shakespeare has come up with absolutely all the dramatic situations that the world may have. And that's just incredible! But there is no 39th situation, there are only 38 dramatic situations. What you just described... I have to say that in all these 38 plays of William Shakespeare, which are more or less well-known in the world, whether it be “Hallet”, whether it be “Romeo and Juliet”, “Macbet” or “King Lier”, or the same mention of “Big Brick, Little Wool”, or yet 30. In this case, all these dramatic plays, comedys... There's alcohol everywhere. Well, beat me off, everywhere they drink wine. There's alcohol everywhere. And it's strange for me to hear that there's going to be worse in the evening than in the day. In the course of the day, can you order alcohol on those tracks? You can! But why can't you order tonight? That, Julia, does not pass criticism from the Ministry of Health, I agree. This should be explained by some other arguments. I fully support this proposal, 17. As I mentioned, William Shakespeare, 1600, early 17th century C.E. Imagine, then, what about the century? Nothing has changed! It's just to know that it's high art now -- William Shakespeare's plays -- before that, it was plunders. Plebei, or ordinary people, so to say, they're already performing like... Or then I need to remind you so much that theatre was not an exclusive art. Men were like women, and here you can go, or not, of all this... In any case, on the proposal... I think I also answered Julia Stepanenko. I call for support for this proposal, 17, that terraces can work and provide their services also up to the relevant time frame included in this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U164	Colleagues, of course, that everything is linked to life and the proposal, but I am also calling for a little more information to be given about the text of the proposal itself and for it to be discussed. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U165	Recently, on 19 May, the terraces were opened in France, and as a kind of gesture - the President of Latvia went to the terraces to accrave cup of coffee, thus symbolically supporting entrepreneurs. So the first thing I would like to say right now is that I also call on our President to go to the terraces and support entrepreneurs. They are looking forward to this. The other thing. I remember those arguments why working time restrictions were necessary. I have to say, there was a certain logic. This was due to the difficulty in carrying out control measures during the dark hours of the day. I have good news for you. We live. So the earth is a little ruined, and when we are approaching the date called John, who is the solstice, when it's the shortest night, then it's... In fact, the sun during the day shines for a very long time. And you won't believe that today the sun is going no longer at 21.00, but at 21.5. In this respect, I in the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption after... Well, if even the sun goes at 21:58 and then there are hours of such a chair, and you can, as you say, distinguish between certain parts of the objects and people's silhouettes - shouldn't there be a compromise version? Well, for example, by 23.00 to allow. Unfortunately, the Commission failed to make such a proposal. The vote divided - four against four. Consequently, there are no such proposals in this voting table today - by 23.00, this proposal alone - for 24.00. Given that I can't explain right now... His day has extended. When the sun was probably thinking about these issues, it was going at 21.00. I can't explain why the time until 8 p.m. should be considered as the dark time of the day, yet knowing that at least an hour is bright even after... adequate visibility. Then I have to say that I have to support this proposal, because the President of Latvia also has a very long working day and maybe he can't come right after 17.00, maybe he has to come... he would like to go at 21.00, but the terraces are already closed. Now come at 23.00! If we support this proposal, he will have the opportunity to do so. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U166	I closed the debate. Vita Anda Steel on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U167	The Commission did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U168	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - the proposal submitted by Members Julia Stepanenko, Lubova Svekova and Karina Sprūde! Please vote mode! For - 48, for - 26, for - 12. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U169	18. - the proposal of Members Stepanenko, Svekova and Srūde. Provision is made to allow up to 50 people to participate in organized events outside the premises. The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U170	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U171	Colleagues! Thank you very much for your support in the previous proposal. This proposal is about organised activities. The parents of the kindergarten publishing groups, the people who are expected to be married this year, and the people who, unfortunately, have... have approached us. who, unfortunately, are faced with sad events in their lives. This is about funerals. If we are talking about funerals, unfortunately, the situation is that only two households are still allowed, as has been clarified. And that certainly needs to be changed. If this proposal is not supported, then I very much hope that at least one of the governments will hear this debate and at least one of the governments today has also put the ear behind the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. It is imperative that this situation be changed. At the moment, we can define these measures out in the outdoors, taking into account everything you say - the masks, the distance - but it is definitely necessary to clarify both this issue and that of... in the case of kindergarten discharges. Mothers, whose children have special needs, are currently confronted with the fact that children have a release in a kindergarten, while mothers and fathers have to stand behind the fence. And that's a big worry... and all this measure, either... We've robbed... You've robbed the honorable government, the children of this festival, and they're not guilty that they... That there's a community. Allowing to be outside in the same yard, let us say, at least one elder in the kindergarten - I think there is no problem there at all if we determine that we have to pull both a mask and follow two metres. Let my mom just look at the kids -- that's not much. Because now the government rules are... we see that parents are not allowed to participate in this edition, well, not allowed. Therefore, dear colleagues, perhaps one of the governments will also be able to listen to this situation if we are talking about the fact that, unfortunately, all these decisions are probably not weighed on the practical side. So I ask you to think about it. I call for support for the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U172	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U173	In the Commission, the 18th proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U174	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. - the proposal submitted by Members Julia Stepanenko, Lubova Svekova and Karina Sprūde! Please vote mode! On - 32, against - 52, refraining from - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U175	19. - the proposal of Members Stepanenko, Svekova and Srūde. Designed to allow viewers to attend the world championship hockey games. The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U176	So Members have not applied for a debate... Members have applied for a debate, but it is time for a break. The debate will continue after the break. Only registration of participants. It's been a success. Interruption until 7.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U177	Dear colleagues, We continue the third extraordinary remote sitting of the Saeima. And we shall continue with the debate on the 19th proposal. Ms Jūlija Stepanenko would like to speak in the debate. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U178	Thank you, colleagues. Thank you for your patience. Indeed, this is our last proposal, and we are responding to last Thursday's debate and... Now, of course, we see that it has already been decided that the hockey will only be viewed by a certain group of people who have undergone therapeutic manipulation or who are suffering from the disease. However, we offer people without distinction. We continue to offer it, and we will never support the sorting of people. Therefore, our proposal regarding the hockey championship is very simple - just as at present people are visiting shopping centres, just as we would offer to allow people to visit the hockey game. There are defined square meters, there are set requirements, distance requirements, square meters per person. There is also a mask, and all this is possible. Without any Covidpass or green certificates, or interoperable certificates at the entrance - simply humanely. The man is coming - he does not differ from other people, he does not have to grade people after disease, after vaccination, after tests. We therefore propose such a concept. We call for support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U179	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, will you add something, Mrs. Steel?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U180	The Commission did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U181	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - the proposal of the Members Julia Stepanenko, Lubova Svekova and Karina Sprūde! Please, let's vote! For -6, for -49, for -12. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U182	We have therefore examined all the proposals. I call for support to be given to the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U183	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” in the second, final, reading! Please, let's vote! For - 76, for - 5, for - 1. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, The next item on the agenda is "Harness of own proposals". Draft decision on the illegal landing of an FR4978 aircraft in Minsk, the capital of Belarus. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U184	Madam President, I have a very respectful sitting. Highly respected, honourable Members! We are currently viewing the draft decision of the Saeima on the illegal landing of the FR4978 aircraft in Minsk, Belarus, which was prepared by the Foreign Affairs Commission and supported yesterday by the Foreign Affairs Commission at the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Commission. When entering the European Union and NATO member states of Ireland on an aircraft operated by Ryanair in Athens - NATO and the EU member state of Greece - when travelling to Vilnius - another NATO member state and the EU member state of Lithuania - it would certainly have been difficult to imagine that only 10 kilometres from the Lithuanian border will suddenly turn 180 degrees to forced landing in Minsk. The Belarusian authorities claim that this was necessary in response to the possible threat of bombing on board. And that was all the evildoer of the HAMAS of the terrorist organization. But some evidence, or even some logical evidence, has failed to support this fairy tale. But there are things that have evidence and that we all know. We know that the Belarusian destroyer, accompanied by Mig, was forced to land the FR4978 plane in Minsk. In Minsk, the Belarusian authorities used this accident landing as an opportunity to arrest one of the founders of independent media Nexta and former main editors, Raman Protasevičs. If, until Sunday's incident, the fight against its opponents, democratic civil society and independent media by the non-legitimate Lukashenko regime of Belarus was actually only an internal matter, then the forced landing of the European Union air liner on Sunday and the actual abduction of passengers, the European Union and also Latvian citizens, is a serious escalation. Following Lukashenko's piracy, it is clear that Lukashenko's regime is a threat not only to its people, but also to international security and the citizens of other countries. In this context, the Foreign Affairs Commission has drafted a draft communication from the Saeima. We stress in the proposed draft statement that the Saeima strongly condemns the Belarusian authorities, which, with the threat of violence and the involvement of the military, have reached the landing of the aircraft, thus threatening aviation safety, the life of more than 123 passengers and crew members of the aircraft, and indicates that such action has violated international law. We call on the International Civil Aviation Organisation and the European Aviation Safety Agency to investigate this incident without delay and to ban all overflights in Belarusian airspace, including flights to and from Belarus, until the results of the investigation have been known or the safety situation has improved. With this statement, the Saeima aligns itself with the decision of the European Council on the further imposition of targeted economic sanctions against Belarus, a step that has long been called on by the democratic opposition in Belarus and calls on the entire international community to strongly condemn the illegal landing of Ryanair aircraft and the violent treatment of peaceful citizens and media representatives. Of course, we also protest against the detention of journalist Raman Protasevich and Sofia Sapega, in violation of their fundamental rights, and demand the immediate and unconditional release of Raman Protasevich and Sofia Sapaga as well as other political prisoners. In general, it is interesting to consider why Russian and Belarusian authoritarian leaders do not like bloggers so much. Let us remember that Navaly is still known as the Kremlin's loyal media. Well, they don't like it so much that they're ready to send destroyers and chemical weapons to them. Freedom of expression. Their willingness to be peacefully persuasive and convincing to express what they regard as true. Both leaders seem to be offended by freedom. Colleagues, the international community has a common priority and the need to ensure that civil aviation... may conduct their flights safely and without restriction. For some European Member States, the grabbing of an Ryanair aircraft and the abduction of journalists were needed as cold water to shake them out of excessive complacency and “it does not affect us” illusions. The fact that the European Union is sufficiently united at the moment in its attitude and understanding of Belarus is reflected in the decision taken by the European Council to go to the maximum position on the table - to extend sanctions... the suspension of air traffic in Belarus and the prohibition of entry into the airspace of the European Union. The time for unclear and worrying statements concerning Belarus has come to an end. We should support Belarusian citizens and perhaps also ours. Sanctions are never accurate, they are rather guns to shoot through sparrows. In the case of Belarus, sanctions can be decisive. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I call for support for the draft communication from the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U185	Thank you for your report. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U186	Good evening, honourable colleagues! Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Please combine my speaking time. Indeed, in our commission, we have examined the factor that we have now expressed our position with the Commission's majority position, Mr Cole. But, for example, I did not vote in favour of this project. Why? Because I think it's too late. Latvian diplomacy has already performed and re-enforced the offers that Rihards Kols played here. Namely, the member of the government, the Minister of Foreign Affairs Edgars Rinkēvičs, together with the Mayor of Riga Mārtiņš Staķis, took the flag of the state of Belarus from the mast adjacent to the Cabinet of Ministers and next to the hotel where the hockey championship participants live. This symbolic gesture was perceived in Belarus as an envy against the Belarusian people, and Belarus withdrew its diplomats from Latvia, expelled Latvian diplomats from Belarus. Latvia gave “a mirror response” - sent out Belarusian diplomats. We do not, in fact, currently have diplomatic relations. Of course, every politician has a desire to make a gesture. All emotions hit a high wave. The elections of local governments are approaching. But I think the head of a foreign restaurant doesn't actually have the options such as a picket or some flutemob... and other gestures. Mr. Rinkēvičs still has to control his... high position. Why? Because diplomacy always... is not talking between friends, but sometimes also between countries... who are enemies. I would like to touch on relations between the US and China. When Mao Zedun was in power in China and the cultural revolution was there, and 100,000 people died, and in fact the country stood on the brink of destruction, the Americans sent to the final table tennis team, and the so - called pingpong diplomacy began. A year later, Nixon made a visit to China and then normalized relations between China and America, which played a very important role in the Cold War. That's why the U.S. and West... won... USSR... at that time, because they were sazobious with the People's Republic of China. But in our case, everything ended with sports, hockey. First we “printed” this championship from the Belarusians, then we were not enough. We wanted to show our solidarity with the Belarusian opposition and we replaced this Belarusian flag on the flag brought by the Belarusian opposition. I think the result is very sad. In fact, Latvia has no opportunity to follow developments in Belarus anymore. Before that, we had a pretty strong ambassador - Einar Semanis. In fact, in my opinion, he is a veteran of Latvian diplomacy - working at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs since the beginning of the 1990s, he was an ambassador both in Finland and in China – a very large and “hard” country. With his experience he could serve in Belarus, get information about events there, communicate with a wide range of “games” participants from both government and opposition, and with gentle power techniques (the Sound Break.) ... national interests. Mr Kola mentioned international solidarity and the common position of the European Union here, but I would like to point out that Latvia has the interests of a neighbouring country - we are neighbours with Belarus, and we should not forget that Belarus is a country that organises us... 20 percent of transit through Latvia. What's going to happen now? After this diplomatic scandal, hardly will the Belarusian authorities be willing to continue economic cooperation between companies that... Owned by the state of Belarus. It is no secret that Belarus has a highly centralised economy. In fact, it is a very large part of the timber industry that belongs to the state, but our country, Latvia, imports from Belarus, are in fact a matter of survival. Currently, prices for wood are rising worldwide and there will be no place to pick up this raw material. Belarus also sends minerals through Latvian ports. It is also quite critical of our transit and infrastructure. There is “Latvian Railways” representation in Minsk; it is located in the Pobediteļej prospectus – the main Lukashenko track. I have great doubts as to whether the LDz representation will continue its work after all this scandal. In fact, there are now all the programmes that began between cities, between higher education institutions and, in fact, all human contacts have been frozen. Citizens of Latvia and Belarusian citizens can no longer receive entry visas to neighbouring countries. Only consulates - i.e. Daugavpils and Vitebsk - continue to work. They will only serve remote drivers and train teams, but all sports exchanges after the championship will be closed. There will also be a closed normal trading practice. We all know that Belarusian goods are represented in Latvian shops and vice versa - Latvian goods are highly demanded in Belarus. In fact, we are threatened by the new, let's say that, insane. We had one friend before. All of our defence doctrines are written in a scenario of conflict with Russia. Belarus did not previously make any information war against Latvia, nor was it a hybrid war. And in general, there was quite a normal cooperation. This is evidenced by the fact that already after the protests in Minsk, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs mentioned in its document on development cooperation cooperation cooperation programmes between border guards from Belarus, Latvia and Estonia. In 2022 and 2023, joint seminars and even children's camps were planned, which they wanted to organise in Daugavpils. I stressed, I draw your attention: all this was done, planned after the events in August and in September last year. This document is available on the Cabinet's website, and its examination took place two weeks ago. It seems to me that some of our politicians want to be Belarusians, such opponents. I have one question for you, Mr Kola, and for the rest of you who are fighting for Belarus' democracy: do you not think that the Belarusian people have had a very great opportunity to show their true position - go to the streets, go to demonstrations, strikes? Of course, you will say that it was -- there were dozens and hundreds... thousands of people. But about 10 million people live in Belarus. And the proportion of people who are not satisfied with the current regime is between 10 and 20 percent. Of course, they are very active. These people turn to us, turn to the West and demand that we do democracy in Belarus, that we go further, that we freeze all Lukashenko's accounts and so on. Therefore, I have a question: why is the position of Belarusian defenders so cowardly? Why do you not want to declare a boycott right now, for example, on Belarusian bank accounts in Latvian banks? Why do you not want to close all forms of transport movement with Belarus (I mean land transport) and then perhaps confiscate properties from Belarusian officials in Latvia? No, you don't want to do that! You are easier to remove the flag and then play (A sound break.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U187	Mr. Cabanov, we can't hear you. Mr. Cabanov, we can't hear you! ( Pause) Mr. Cabanov, your time is not over, we can't hear you. Please! We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Krista Bauman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U188	Good evening, honourable chair of the sitting! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Our neighbouring non-legitarian leader, Lukashenko, is no longer a threat to the health and life of citizens of our country, but to everyone entering Belarus's airspace. His fear of free press has gone so far that journalists who tell the world about the crimes of the regime are being persecuted not only on the ground but also in the air. On Sunday, he forced a plane on a flight to Minsk... which was on the way between NATO and the capital of the European Union and thus he threatened 123 passengers, including two Latvian citizens. It is, in fact, to be regarded as a hijacking of an airplane by taking passengers as hostages. Lukashenko acts as a terrorist, trying to justify his actions by all sorts of excuses that are reinvented daily when it becomes clear that the past are lies. On Sunday in Minsk, journalist Roman Protasevičs and his companion Sofia Sapega were arrested. They couldn't continue on their way to Vilnius because they were arrested. Yesterday there was a funeral activist, Vitold Ashurak, who was imprisoned by the Lukashenko regime. Yesterday too... The 17-year-old Dmitry Stahovskis committed suicide in Minsk by jumping through a multi-storey building window - accusation of participation in protests. Lukashenko's regime kills. Public organisations estimate that 421 political prisoners are currently in prison in Belarus. Dear colleagues, Latvia should continue to support the Belarusian people in all possible ways in a spirit of solidarity, helping them to fulfil their desire for freedom. We, together with the rest of the civilised world, must have a clear and unambiguous position on Lukashenko's crimes and use all the levers at our disposal to influence him. There are many things that we can do, all of which are important: tougher, more targeted economic sanctions; restrictions on Belarusian airlines to use European airspace; financial and other assistance to Belarusian civil society and certain people who have suffered violence; asylum offer to those who are fleeing the Lukashenko regime; statements by state officials and the Saeima expressing our attitude strictly, as well as symbolic actions such as raising the white-white free flag of Belarus at the heart of the world hockey championship, as proudly done on Monday by the Mayor of Riga Mārtiņš Staķis along with Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs; a global campaign of solidarity on Saturday, 29 May, to which free Belarus leader Svytlan Cihanouska calls; practical assistance, for example, donating money or domestic affairs to Belarusian refugees in Latvia. Today, at lunch break, I myself took a number of belongings to a public organization, which will deliver them to Belarusian journalists who have just arrived in Latvia and will continue to do their work here without fear of their lives. Colleagues, this is not the first announcement by the Saeima on the situation in Belarus. And unfortunately, it will probably not be the last. In this way, we, as a democratic, civilised European country, express our attitude towards the criminal regime in our neighbours. I believe that it is our duty to do this. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U189	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U190	Good evening, honourable Saeima! From August 2020, all my sympathy has been on the side of Belarusian protestors. I support their demands for fair, transparent, convincingly unfalsified presidential elections. I support their rights to protest, as well as the rights that have been strengthened and guaranteed in Belarus legislation. The repression of the existing Belarusian security authorities, the detention of protest activists and the acts of violence against them shall be condemned. I condemn the detention of journalist Roman Protasevich and Sofia Sapega. However, I believe that no superficial, non-critical, general accusations are permitted in the decisions of the Latvian Saeima. In fact, they weaken the criticisms of those who violate democracy that they deserve. They give the impression that the Members of the Saeima are criticising events unilaterally, and condemn the practice of the state authority of Belarus on the basis of their displeasure and biased assumptions, not on the basis of violations of rights and the repression of protestors in Minsk. Nor is the draft decision to be considered. It is based on (quot) ‘illegal landing’. ( End quoted) However, there is already evidence that its crew has moved the plane itself to Minsk, when they received a notice from the air dispatcher at Minsk International Airport that an explosion could occur on the plane in Vilnius. And only when it was flying to Minsk had a war plane appeared. The draft decision indicates that the landing of the aeroplane is in breach of international law. But is it really illegal for foreign aircraft to land in their own airspace? The practice is different and shows that the campaign around the FR4978 is politically targeted. On 5 January 2004, at the request of the Public Prosecutor of the District of Northern California, in Palmbec, the United States of America was forced to land an aircraft flying by a member of the Federal Meeting of the Russian Federation, Andrejs Vavilov, who was subsequently interrogated in the case of the former Prime Minister of Ukraine, Pavlo Lazarenko. That message lingered in the media for no more than one day. On 23 February 2010, over the Gulf, Iran's air troops caught and landed in the city of Bandaraba, the Kyrgyzstann airline, Kyrgyz Airways, which was flying from Dubai to Biškek. A Sunnet opposition leader, Abdolmaleks Rigi, was arrested on board. The plane continued to fly to Bishkek, and Abdolmaleks Rigi was hanged in Tehran prison on June 20, the same year. No protests against the landing of the plane and the hanging of the opposition. On 21 October 2016, the Belavia aircraft of the Belarusian airline Boeing 737, which was flying from Kiev to Minsk, was forced back to Kiev 50 kilometres from Belarus. There were 136 passengers on board. The commander received a dispatcher’s order, which was not accompanied by any explanation, but announced that war aviation would be raised in the air if the order was not executed. After the plane landed at the airport of Žulani in Kiev, the Ukrainian Security Service took the journalist and anti-imamidan movement activist Armenu Martyrosjana from the plane. The plane went to Minsk. Belarus protested against the forced return of the plane to Ukraine. No country, including Latvia, held the protest. And the last example. Perhaps you remember that on 29 July last year, 33 Russian citizens who were attributed to the private war company Vagner were detained at the sanatorium near Minsk. At that time, the former Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine officially announced that the plane in which they were intending to fly from Minsk to Istanbul one day later was planned to land in Kiev or Odessa for further passenger detention. I don't give their assessment of a possible mission. The story is that if forced landing of an aeroplane in national airspace were not in compliance with international law and practice, it would hardly be planned and announced by the Ukrainian state institution. And the fact that the press commented on such a statement quite dryly only proves it. The draft decision ignores all of these broad contexts and is therefore to be assessed as superficially prepared and not acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U191	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U192	Dear colleagues, I really don't like hypocrisy. In this draft decision, the only thing, perhaps one of the things I could agree with, is that at last we should not remind our colleagues that we must respond to the risks to the health and safety of our citizens. But what follows in the whole story is unfortunately hypocrisy. This is hypocrisy, because none of the developers of this draft decision, and also our biggest hockey fan, who drew the flag (I am talking about Mr Rinkēvičs), has even moved his finger to ensure that the error committed by Mr Rinkēvičs himself, with the exception of Mr Oleksin from the list of sanctions, is corrected. If this draft decision were to give our Foreign Minister a clear and clear task, however, to put him back on the sanctions list, who, according to informal information, which often also proves to be true, is a financier of the regime, it would be a clear signal that Latvia responds adequately and consistently to such events. However, with one hand you will continue to support such measures, so indirectly by supporting the fact that Mr Rinkēvičs removes this person from the list of sanctions for allegedly business interests, but with the other hand... Now all these beautiful measures are taking place - flag changes, statements... Much more can be imagined, of course, at the same time as glowing before the elections. That's one moment. The second moment, when we talk about duality, is that of colleagues from "Development/About!" Really miraculous - miraculous! - behaviour. I understand that colleagues from Development/Par! I love money so much. Money follows them everywhere on their feet, sticks to them, and indeed they are in a very good relationship with money, they always succeed. But the one who doesn't love them is fate. The situation does not really love colleagues from Development/About! , because each time colleagues from “Development/About!” prepare a medicine for the public, either it is “a speech of hatred” or someone... Another hypocritical statement, fate is played. And that's what Mr. Bikše is doing right now. Mr Bikše is not included in this draft decision. This draft decision does not state that the Saeima is strictly and unequivocally separated from the rhetoric of Mr Bikše and does not in any way support such an idea as one of the members of the Saeima - Aigars Bikše - who has called for... Well, then, of course, afraid of having a criminal responsibility... called for hostages to be taken. As we read in the Criminal Law, taking hostages is terrorism, but calling for hostages to be seized is a call for terrorism, and this is subject to criminal liability - without any other options. I understand that Mrs Baumanes too... has probably written an application to the police against Mr. Bikše... Or - isn't it? For if she has not written an application against such a move, then all we have just heard is simply empty speeches. So this incident, Mr Bikše, is not included in the Saeima statement. Thanks to all the media that follow our information space, now the whole world knows what our Saeima Member, a Member of Parliament, has offered, the whole world knows these ideas. And nothing! - a condemnation from the Saeima Bureau, from the Foreign Affairs Commission or from a political group. Nothing has followed, he is not even excluded from the composition of the Saeima. And now we hear all these speeches about how concerned we are and how we will handle things in another country. It's hypocrisy. And for “development / for!” has received another meadow from fate. Now sit down and eat your own halls, and try to deal with this situation that you pretend not to see! And put Mr. Bikše in this decision! I would very much like to see it. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U193	The name's Nikolai Cabanov. You have eight minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U194	Dear colleagues, Dear President, For technical reasons, I was forced to interrupt my presentation. I would like to touch on another aspect. This Communication deals with air traffic restrictions with Belarus. This has already been done. Today the last flight from Minsk to Tallinn crossed the Latvian border, and from today the Latvian Civil Aviation Agency adopted a ban on any Belarusian civil aircraft crossing the Latvian airspace; only in the event of an emergency can they settle in Latvia. But I want to remind you, my fellow Members, of the period immediately after the pandemic. Last spring and summer, all airlines in Europe closed their carriages, cancelled their flights, and Belavia was the only one that kept the air traffic and helped several people in Latvia to get home. It seems to me that this gesture against an airline, which is in no way related to this dramatic Ryanair incident, is going to have a reduced state against innocent people who will now be on leave. And in the end, maybe Belavia will also get into some Russian oligarch pocket. What are you, honourable rapporteurs, turning to? You are addressing Belarus's incorporation in the Russian Federation, but in reality you will promote it by your decision. Another point. I sometimes sympathise with representatives of the Belarusian opposition because I myself am in opposition, and I understand what it means to be a minority. Of course, we have democracy in Latvia. We have a democratically elected President. We have a democratic truth, and there is a general harmony between the state and man. But we... Do we want to teach the Belarusians? Now we will no longer have this opportunity, because there will be no embassy, there will not be reception in Latvia, all kinds of training... applications... and so on. We are losing our soft power in Belarus. And we actually hit the middle class of Belarus, because it was the middle class of Belarus, those city dwellers who often travel by plane, who were passengers on Belavia flights and other companies flying from Minsk. From yesterday, they will no longer have the opportunity to visit Europe, to breathe our freedom air, to talk to like-minded people from the Development/About Group. . And this generally complicates the already difficult life of the Belarusian opposition. If Latvia wants to see a democratic Belarus next to it, we need to be patient, we need to wait, because no politician's life is 100 years... Of course, Alexander Lukashenko is in good physical form, he plays a hockey, sometimes even plays his political opponents, but of course we know that life is very cruel, and the time of the former President will come to an end. But everything in this world will end. Let us not be so naive as to think that with our excess activism we will achieve something better than the current international scandal. Yesterday I listened with interest to Alexander Lukashenko's speech at the National Assembly. There he sometimes mentioned Latvian politicians with very bad words. I will not mention everything he has said here, but, believe me, within 25 years of Alexander Lukashenko, there was never such rhetoric against Latvia and against Latvian politicians. I would like to remind you that only in January of last year the Prime Minister, Mr. Kariņš, visited Minsk and gave Alexander Lukashenko a Latvian national team shirt with his name and number 1. Much has changed since then, some people are leaving, some are dead and killed. The situation in Belarus is very dramatic, but it is not a unique exception. There were several authoritarian countries in Europe in the 20th century. There was a dictatorship in Spain, there was a state of war in Poland, there was a dictatorship in Greece, a military coup. The diplomats of democratic countries continued to work there everywhere. They collected information, they accepted demands for political asylum, they contacted the opposition, and all the time they tried to do their job honestly. But they obviously had better foreign ministers than the existing Foreign Minister of the Republic of Latvia Edgars Rinkēvičs. Therefore, I ask you, my fellow Members, to think once again whether it is worth us adopting such a resolution, which I think is not prepared and which is wrong. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U195	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U196	Thank you, colleagues. Indeed, the question is very serious, but unfortunately we have a very short memory. As far as the situation of the opposition in Belarus is concerned, then, naturally, it is really dramatic. But it is not a phenomenon of this year or last year. I would like to remind you that, after the previous elections in Minsk, there were protests that had been stopped in a much more severe way. There were also opponents in prison. There were sanctions announced by the European Union, where we also played a very active role. I remember very well Mr Rinkēvičs's report on the Belarusian companies listed in the sanction, many of which had really good and long-term relations with Latvia. He had really taken on that and had some companies removed from the list. That means that everything is repeated. Perhaps someone remembers that in his time and very recently, Mr Lukashenko was called the last dictator of Europe. Then time changed, and he became a civilised last dictator. More... Not only Mr. Karin had given him a shirt, but... I would like to remind you that he had been invited to an official visit to Latvia, and that visit was missing, not because the Latvian authorities had considered organising this visit, but only because of the pandemic. Now we are preparing the next statement, we are going to take part in the current sanctions. With what goal? We are going to see democracy flourishing in Belarus? Do we, however, try to make this relationship... Take it to the clown? What will result from all this? By the way, the text of the communication proposed for discussion today contains one very interesting sentence that it is necessary to instruct ICAO to investigate this incident. I think it would be appropriate to draw conclusions from this investigation. After the aircraft captain's talks with dispatchers in Athens, Vilnius and Minsk have been published. When this whole thing is known, put on the table... instead of having political emotions on the table, it would be possible to talk about an incident and whether it really is a threat to air traffic in the European airspace. Only then can we do this, but we try to put everything in one bag: we condemn the Belarusian regime, we support the Belarusian opposition, we restrict air traffic, we appreciate the incident and so on, and so on. I think that there must be some consistency across our internal policies and, in particular, in foreign policy, which is very important in order to preserve self-respect and respect from other countries as well, including from the European Union. Not always if we want to become first in a matter, it is a good step. Well, if we take sensible steps, we will also be very aware of the consequences of these steps. Let us say, the fact that the Belarusian flag has been removed, you forgive me, is that greatness, the boy can do this, not the Minister of Foreign Affairs. To be honest, what are the symbols of the state? Anthem, a flag, a coat of arms. Neither the President of the State nor the Minister of Foreign Affairs, whose chairs can be taken by anyone. But these are the symbols of the country. And in this case, it really was, well... I think it was... unconscious... No, conscious but irresponsible folly. I would urge you not to support the text of this kind of communication and to think about serious cooperation with the opposition forces, first and foremost with the Belarusian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U197	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U198	Thank you. Colleagues! I will, in fact, allow myself to disagree with Mr Dolgopolov on the fact that what the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Mayor of Riga did is unwise action. I would say more about what is happening and how exactly the Foreign Minister is reacting, that everything is being done to actually do (and here I will agree with Mr Cabanova)... in order to ensure that Belarus will have no other option and will definitely join the largest neighbour - the Russian geopolitical space and also the sphere of influence. All the actions done by both the Mayor of Riga and our Foreign Minister directly motivate this direction and accelerate the development of such events. It should also be mentioned here that, if you well remember, thanks to the involvement of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which was publicly expressed by the leader of the opposition from Belarus Hazin, who lives in Great Britain, one of Belarus's largest oligarchs was not included in the sanctions list and practically one of the people called Lukashenko's purses. And there is the duality, the double game and, in my opinion, the mezzanine agreement on the part of the Foreign Minister, because there must also be consistency in the adoption of statements, the action must be consistent. But if we remember even more events before last August's elections in Belarus, it should also be remembered that, precisely thanks to the Latvian specic service materials sent by the Financial Intelligence Service to Belarus, several representatives of the opposition were "detained" from taking part in the elections. And this was done directly by the experts of the Latvian special services. Then from that whole context, if we follow the chronology and developments, starting with the Prime Minister's visit to Belarus and even an attempt to co-excite Russian in conversation with Lukashenko... Later, assistance with sensitive information on the cash flow and financial transactions of the opposition followed by the respective exclusion of oligarchs from the sanctions list. Now, suddenly, the most definitive and humiliating gesture and action - you have removed the flag of the country. The only conclusion that comes to me from the analysis of this whole situation and chronology is that perhaps our Foreign Minister actually works not in Latvia's interest, but on the contrary - in the interests of another country. And everything that happens will lead to it. Then take part in the show, which... in fact, other objectives have been hidden... I'm sorry, colleagues, but I don't plan. I therefore take a very critical view of both this communication and, more generally, the whole course of events in Belarus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U199	Name to Member Rihard Cole. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U200	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, A short replica. Just what has been heard so far... Well, the analysis gives each Member a vision of the situation that has taken place in Belarus and what the interests of Latvia and everything else are... See, especially from... I'll say that, from... At least it sounds like it really sounds like the Kremlin's peacock walks, speaks, plays each other's conversation show in Russia such main narratives, messages, as well as this Sunday event. You see, various arguments, facts, try to put it in such a logical outfit. In the Commission, on the other hand, Members who represent... and the party, who here is very aware of the whole case of how and how it should not be done, was sitting as water in the mouth. Well, he could offer what we need to clarify what is wrong, what is wrong, to put these facts on the table and all other things, but there was nothing like that. You see, it's just a position in the Saeima sitting right now, so that there's argument in the public space, reservations, just not to vote, because we'll see... When the Saeima votes in favour of this statement by the Foreign Affairs Commission, I am convinced that these active speakers will not take part in the vote at all, because it is more convenient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U201	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U202	Reflecting on this debate is such a very, very strange debate for us today. In view of the political passion that has taken place on our political stage in relation to Belarus, I expected that today, too, Members will continue to compete in eloquence here in the same performance as both the flag and the Belarusian hockeys. We heard just one speech here, where we tried to call people who expressed their opinion the Kremlin's Gegus. I think, in turn, Mr. Cole, that if someone is here, then most of all in this case you are drawing to this status. And I'll explain it quite rightly. So, colleagues, if there has indeed been a terrorist attack by the state, as it is claimed, then it is really an act that violates international law and is a threat to both human and national security. And such a fact must be addressed by appropriate action, not only by notices or flag-scaring. It is understood that such action requires appropriate justification. However, if we read this decision and take it only (I quote) "due to concerns" (and this is the only reason for it), then we get the same as those that we want to condemn, only painted in a different colour. If we are not just shudder drills of a thin table or if we want to be at least some kind of respectable water glass in any other game, then it would be worth considering at least a few steps further, the result of which we will be adopting such a well-founded statement. This will certainly be used against us by the opponents of this decision, pointing to such a'reason' (in the paragraphs), so that we can rightly discredit both our decision and ourselves by taking the same actions as we now wish to include in this communication, but, unlike our statement, they will be able to prove, in a reasonable way, that the sovereign rights of a country are being misjudged. How will this be used further? What will be our real contribution? It will work as an instrument to mobilise the support of Belarusian society for the existing power. Let us not be naive - much of the support of Belarusian society for the existing powers. There is a part that oscillates. If we adopt such a "reasonable" statement, which we cannot justify, based only on our concerns and facts that have not yet been demonstrated, then we are giving the opportunity to use this decision to unify the public around the existing power, because it is clear that this power will rightly be able to present our decision as an unwarranted appeal against Belarus, against the Belarusian people. And it will be particularly convenient for Latvia to do so by linking this statement with the flag of a country that has just happened around Belarus, which many people consider to be blasphemy of their own country - and unfortunately rightly so. I think that, in this regard, our Foreign Minister should give an explanation to the Saeima on the grounds of his actions - why? Why did he do that? I could still find an explanation, no justification, for the action of the Mayor of Riga - he was still a little boy in the 1990s, probably flying in the kitchen under the table and knew nothing about Belarus or about what was happening in it. But our Foreign Minister should have known that this flag... It is not a flag chosen by another official of the state; it is a flag chosen by the people of Belarus as a symbol, voting almost 90 percent of the Belarusians in a popular referendum in 1995. Addressing the official symbol of another country, chosen by the people in their referendum - with what aim did the Foreign Minister do? What is to be done next, since it was not hard to predict what will be done to it and how it will be used? What we are seeing now is just the beginning of all this. If I hadn't been in Latvia's politics for a long time and didn't know what it is, I would rather believe that what happened with the flag of Belarus was such a deepfak, such a profound fake that it was not Staķis and Rinkēvičs, but that it was done by any other, say, they were once again the most famous FSB agents - Boscirov and Petrov. In any case, launching this flag will be the most expensive in the history of Latvia. I think that hardly any other country will have brought us more losses and tensions with our eastern neighbour than with such a cheap celebrity... action by our officials. I understand that they are not the only ones who, before the elections, must rush to cover up this wave of their glory, which, unfortunately, may have to cost others very much, perhaps even with life, namely if we continue to analyse the possible consequences of this announcement by the Saeima, which we so prepared... What do you think: if we simply condemn and demand the existing power of Belarus to release Protasevich, but are unable to justify this claim in any way - how will it be used again? What motivation? — Sound Break. ... Knowing what this regime is doing? What is the response to such requirements? This is exactly the opposite of what is required, because accepting the demands would mean showing your weakness, but this power cannot afford to do so. Well, then there is an elementary expectation that, in this case too, we are provocating exactly the opposite action, that is to say, to make a settlement with this man as soon as possible. That is what you wanted to achieve, Mr. Cole? Is that what you want to achieve with this report? Well, don't say that you didn't have the sense to be able to understand what a possible response to such your setting can be. Or maybe you think of yourself as real carriers of democracy that are unable to protect democracy in their homes and at their first chance, and you have decided that you inspire the opposition to continue to fight against the existing power, that is to say, giving it such a sacral victim, namely that the existing power to handle these detained people is as severe as possible, perhaps fully counting on them. Is that what you want to achieve at the moment with this parliamentary statement? Is it the main thing for you to earn your glory, stand up, whatever suffering it can cause to people, no matter what damage it can cause to Latvian society? They are likely to be measured in many million. We are already receiving notifications about the suspension of Belarusian transit cargoes, about the embargo on trade in our goods not only in Belarus, but also in Russian markets. And this is just the beginning of the war of sanctions that you are offering to begin. Yes, the Foreign Affairs Commission will offer this statement to initiate the escalation of sanctions. I quote: ‘... further targeted against Belarus,’ rather than the Belarusian regime, ‘encouraged the imposition of economic sanctions’. I assume that you have not created this proposal simply as a hotheads, longing for quick fame and recognition, or simply slapping somewhere, that you also have estimates of your proposal on the possible impact of these sanctions, either, at least, any sense of what we can give the impression and the impression of what the escalation of these sanctions can give us. Unfortunately, I do not find this anywhere in the Saeima's materials before this announcement. I hope that in the debate in the Saeima, you who are ready to support the drafting of the proposals so prepared, will apply and give your estimates of this... Well, at least you will demonstrate your understanding so that all of this can be appreciated. Otherwise, the sanctions can come to us as we do. Ironically, but even on such an elementary issue as raw materials for aviation fuel, which we are now spending extra time making our air services more expensive to cover the territory of Belarus... So no one has been able to tell me where the raw materials come from for this aviation fuel... who supplies it. These sanctions can have interesting consequences. But in order to save the rhetoric for the demagogians, and for the drills of the thin table in particular, I once again explained: yes, of course, there are things that cannot be measured in material terms. And there are moments when it is in principle necessary to stand up for the values that are important to us, and this can be one of these moments. We must be prepared to pay such a fee. I would just like to know what it is and whether the leaders of this communication themselves have any meaning for that. What I would like to point out is that we are doing exactly the opposite with a statement in this way, which is a cheap halture and a brother; we are not just defending these values; we are destroying them and demolishing them. What should we do if we really have an important principle of justice, democracy and justice, and we would like to stand up for them and help those who are fighting for less suffering so that less blood is used to do so? First. Require a competent and objective investigation involving international organisations so that no one is in doubt about the conclusions reached and cannot challenge them. At the moment there are a variety of versions and facts about what happened. Clearly, there can be only one truth, and it is important to clarify it before making any important decisions so that these decisions cannot be discredited as being based on lies or falsehood, and that is essential. Secondly. Request a justification for the detention of the persons concerned, if necessary, including the circumstances under which they were detained. There again, as we see, various interpretations are taking place. This is essential if we really want to achieve justice and justice in this matter, and not, on the contrary, to rush everything so that it is not possible to find a rational solution to all of this. If we try to achieve this only on the basis of assumptions, self-conceived statements, without being based on evidence, then this will inevitably lead to exactly the opposite, only giving the existing Belarusian power short-lived and helping it to implement its truth and order of things for itself. I believe that this Communication needs to be redrafted in order to be able to support it. Personally, I cannot support such a statement. I call for it to be redrafted, otherwise we only look like such an empty embarrassment and cheap celebrity, simply painted in a different colour from the one we are now addressing. That's all from me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U203	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U204	Colleagues! It's very easy to pull off the flags. It is very easy to write such endlessly many parliamentary statements, which, incidentally, the rest of the House have no opportunity to adjust at all, Mr Cole! But none of you, beloved heroes, will be responsible for these consequences, no one. None of you will have to go on unpaid leave because business is over, none of you will have to think about how you can meet your father or mother living in Belarus, for example, and who has not been seen for more than a year. None of you will have to pay for it. You will collect stickers in your party rating, try to attract voters' voices in some way with various beautiful pictures where you are playing this white-white flag, and so on. All this is really cheap, cheap, cheap popularity that you are trying to get at this moment to the background of other people's tragedy. Finally, I would just like to say to Mr Kola, who has been trying to play big politics for some time now - and I think, while you, Mr Kola, as Head of the Foreign Affairs Commission, who has quite unlimited resources and opportunities to follow all the security protocols, will not be able to ensure that you do not look silly when talking to the false Russian opponents (I am talking about the Volkov case), while you can not continue this game and, in the meantime, you can not try big politicians, because your failure was visible to everyone and understandable. So, at the beginning, please, Mr Kola, ensure that the security services check the persons with whom you are making zests and other meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U205	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the illegal landing of the FR4978 aircraft in Minsk, the capital of Belarus! Please, let's vote! -59, against -5, refrains - not. Decision adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined the agenda for the third remote emergency sitting of 27 May. I would like to present to you the request received by the Saeima Bureau, made by Members Ainars Latkovskis, Iveta Benhena-Beeken, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Arvils Asheraden and Anda Čakša, to declare a break at the Saeima's first remote emergency session of 27 May 2021 until 9 a.m. on 3 June this year. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the request made by Members Latkovsky, Benhen-Beken, Kalniņa, Asheraden and Čakša for a break before 9 a.m. on 3 June this year! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Member's application... so the sitting was suspended until 9 a.m. on 3 June this year. I would also like to present to you the questions that have been tabled by Members. That's one tonight. Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Lubova Švecova, Aldis Gobzems and Edgars Tavars have submitted a question to the Minister of Health Danielas Pavļutas “On the order of the rector of Riga Stradins University on the obligation of students to vaccinate”. The word for motivation - Member Julija Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U206	Dear colleagues, Mr. Peterson, rector of Riga Stradins University, who is also a member of the New Unity... A member of the new Unity has issued a very strange order stating that, with the coming year, all students will have the opportunity to attend studies only if they have, first, vaccinated, passed a full vaccination course against Covid-19; second, they will have been overloaded and can accordingly be documented within a given period; thirdly, they will therefore have the corresponding response from the first pot, which will be documented; or fourthly, they will be able to pass a 72-hour test. In addition, these tests should be performed in the last two cases, even if you have a reaction from your ankle. These tests must be carried out at their own expense. That is why we need to find out what Mr Pavļuta thought about all this, which stated that students could never have such a restriction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-27-PT13-2260-U207	Your question will be referred to the Minister for Health. Tonight, there is only a record of the presence of Members. This has happened. Everyone's having a peaceful evening!
