ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2204-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Let us begin the first remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 4 March 2021. Colleagues, we need a technical break. So it's a break until 9: 10 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2204-U2	Dear colleagues, We will begin to examine the agenda of the first remote emergency session on 4 March this year. On the agenda - consideration of the draft decision. Draft decision on the order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 24 February 2021 No. Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 February 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Orders 115 and 26 February 2021 This Decision is addressed to the Member States. 655 ‘Proclaiming an emergency’. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2204-U3	Good morning, dear colleagues! The technical problems have been successfully overcome and I will report on what has been decided by the Commission. At the meeting of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, on 3 March, we considered three orders of the Cabinet of Ministers regarding amendments to the order on declaring an emergency situation. And, as usual, I would call only the most important things, without referring to absolutely every word and all this long report. As you know, the provision of hairdressing, manicure, pedicure and podologist services is allowed from 1 March this year. Detailed arrangements for the provision of services are laid down in the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations on Epidemiological Security Measures to limit the spread of Covid-19 infection. It is also stipulated that, in the case of funerals and in urgent cases, baptisms will be possible in the future not only in the outdoors but also in the indoors (of course within the limits of the assembly, i.e. not more than 10 people from two households, apart from persons directly involved in the process of the ceremony concerned, and subject to the epidemiological safety requirements). The amendments also clarify the point on the availability of education opportunities in the field, namely that in certain cases - depending on the epidemiological situation and the possibilities to reduce the risk of infection spread - the training process in the field for Classes 1-4 is permitted to be provided subject to epidemiological safety requirements, provided that the cumulative number of Covid-19 cases per 100 000 inhabitants exceeds 200 cases, but does not exceed 220 cases. It is also planned that the Disease Prevention and Control Centre will publish a list of municipalities in the official edition “Latvijas Vēstnesis” where class 1-4 training will be allowed on the spot. The amendments also provide for... and extended pre-set limit for travel for non-essential reasons... maintaining all pre-defined conditions and exceptions. The amendments also provide for the possibility of providing individual consultations to those students of art schools who are expected to undergo final tests during this half-year. The amendments provide for the right of learners not to use mouth and nose lids for blowing games, singing and dancing in individual consultations, if they have passed a Covid-19 test in the last 72 hours before consulting them and it is negative. It is also stipulated that training in the railway, road, maritime and aviation sub-sector, as well as in passenger transport, freight and dangerous goods transportation can be implemented on 1 March. and the practical part of the first aid training course and the completion of the final tests. A number of simultaneously enforceable conditions are laid down for both the justification of the exceptional need and the epidemiological safety criteria. In particular, the measure must be carried out this half-year, cannot be carried out remotely, training necessary for appointment or for obtaining, maintaining, extending or renewing certificates, certificates, certificates and other similar documents, as well as for the recognition of professional qualifications and for demonstrating the conformity of competence. The measure must also be implemented on a case-by-case basis, using personal protective equipment as far as possible. A similar exception is provided for from 15 March this year for the practical training and completion of the final tests of the practical part of driving training and first aid training in cases where training was started before 20 December last year. In the Commission, having heard representatives of the ministries, institutions, Infectologists, legal experts, the amendments introduced by the government to the ‘Advertising the Emergency’ Ordinance were deemed necessary, justified, proportionate to the situation. I therefore call for support for the draft decision drawn up by the Commission. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2204-U4	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2204-U5	Dear colleagues, This is the next one, the next one! - set of various decisions that, on the one hand, allegedly bring relief to a particular sector... we are talking about hairdressers, manicurers and podologists who had to give up their last savings or take loans for the construction of their premises according to epidemiological requirements and wait for them to be closed again... without any hope for cosmetologists and other workers in the beauty industry. This package of draft decisions also contains quite strange things inside. One of them Mr. Ranzan has already applied for, but... I would very much like to see the person who has offered this regulation. And I would simply like to understand what is happening in the head of the person who proposes to treat children like this, in particular, there are amendments to point 5.44. This is the last sentence, and it reads: “In educational institutions, mouth and nose covers are not used for educational blowing games, singing and dancing in individual consultations” – in individual consultations, not in group! - “if they have undergone a Covid-19 test within the last 72 hours before consulting them and are negative.” As you have imagined, honourable colleagues, honourable officials or just drawing up these amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers' orders, so terrible... just drive those children to tests every 72 hours just because the child wants to continue dancing, play blowing instruments and sing, and do it individually - one against one - together with the teacher?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. What's going on in your head?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I am sorry, I simply lack words about what you are offering at the moment. No, no... Yes, of course, it's good that you've even relieved this load a little bit, these rakes, but what you're doing right now is just... It is a humiliation. You were laughing at our children. You just laughed! I would like to see with my own eyes the person who, while sitting in his office, has come up with such a “excellent” phrase. I believe that all these draft decisions - that is one humiliation: you just give a little bit, a little breath and then your head under the water again! I will not support this draft decision, these orders, even though they bring some benefit somewhere, a little bit, by little. It is simply a ridicule for a nation, a ridicule for a society, for children, for entrepreneurs. You're just gonna keep laughing -- you're taking a little shit and then... Next week... You're threatening everybody to sit home again. It is a shame for what is happening both in our government and in the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2204-U6	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added or explained on behalf of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2204-U7	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues! On behalf of the Commission, I would just add that this negative test 72 hours before training is intended, not simply because the child wants to learn, it does not prevent him from doing so, it is about limiting the disease... and to make sure that, in a changing situation, the child who goes to these classes is not, however, the carrier of this infection. And I will add that it is a great pleasure for me to say that Estonia does not sound like a positive example today, because we see what is happening there. The circumstances in which the Cabinet of Ministers decides were not mentioned today either. Thank you. Colleagues, nothing more is to be added. I call for support to be given to the specific draft Commission decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2204-U8	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On Cabinet of Ministers Order of 24 February 2021 No. Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 February 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Orders 115 and 26 February 2021 This Decision is addressed to the Member States. 655 “Advertising the Emergency”! Please, let's vote! For -57, for -1, for -26. Decision adopted. On the agenda - referral and first reading of the draft law to the commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Criminal Procedure Law” submitted by the Legal Commission be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission and let us start examining it at first reading. So on the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Criminal Procedure Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juris Jurash.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2204-U9	Good morning, colleagues! The Subcommittee on Criminal Law Policy of the Legal Commission submitted to the Legal Commission the draft law drafted by it “Amendment to the Criminal Procedure Law”. The draft law provides for the addition of Article 357 of the Criminal Procedure Law with a new part, which would regulate the case and which would be an exception to the general regulation, that the estate of an heir who has been recognised as a criminally acquired property and to which, after a criminal offence has been committed, the right of property is preserved in the land register of the beneficiary of the crime, while for the benefit of the state, the value of this property is recovered from the person who committed the criminal offence. The existing legal remedies intended to protect a person who has acquired property in good faith but for whom its property is subsequently recognised as criminally acquired are less effective. Therefore, amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law are necessary in order to provide a legal framework for the protection of the rights of good faith acquirers. At its meeting on 2 March this year, the Legal Commission examined the said draft law and decided to direct it to the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima as a draft law drafted by the Legal Commission. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I request that the draft law on the amendment to the Criminal Procedure Law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2204-U10	Thank you. The Commission is therefore asking for the draft law to be declared urgent. Mr. Judine, are you going to talk about identifying the urgency? No, no. Obviously Mr Judine has applied to speak in the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Criminal Procedure Law” as urgent! Please, let's vote! About - 83, against - no, abstaining - 5. The draft law has been declared urgent. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2204-U11	Good morning, colleagues! I would like to say a few words about both the draft law and the need to adopt it quickly. In recent times, we have been talking very, very much about the benefit of good faith. The draft law has been drafted very quickly and is being asked to be dealt with as a matter of urgency today. So, who is a good faith beneficiary? Unfortunately, in cases where property - real estate - has been defrauded, there may be a situation where there is both the owner, the person to whom the property belongs, and the person who later bought it without knowing anything about the crime committed... In particular, there is a situation where there is one property and two persons applying for it. Under the law - and this is absolutely right - the interests of the victim are preferred: if this is the case, we give the property back to the owner, but the good-believer, in turn, can claim damages in civil order. That is good, it is right, but it must be understood that the good-believer has paid for the money. The good - faithed one has believed that the earth’s book can be believed and that the information is in harmony with the truth that his interests will be protected. But what do we see? Unfortunately, we see that the interests of the good-believer are not sufficiently protected. The case of Wilson, which we have been talking about lately and because of which we started to work actively and propose these amendments, clearly showed that the good faith beneficiary is not protected, unfortunately his interests are seriously threatened, because if we say that a person can deal with the problem in civil order, in practice it means that, after a person loses his property, he can write... in court, submit his application and wait for the trial, and if, for example, the fraudster has money from which he can recover his losses, then he can get it if he does not, then there will be no result. That's not fair. This is not fair, and in the near future we are planning to tackle the problem packages. We have developed, and today we are leading, a project that will deal with only part of the problem; this is not just the case of Wilipson; there are several other people who are in this situation, but it is only part of the problem. We are talking about the so-called immanent property, that is, the case of a person who dies: there is no property, there are no heirs, and under Civil law its property agrees with the state, but fraudsters acquire it in their possession, then chart it, sell it on several occasions and, as a result, the country does not acquire what is due to it. This means, of course, that the State must act, that compensation should be claimed, but it should be borne in mind that in this case the State was not the owner of real estate. It had the right to become such, but failed. We therefore offer an exception to the general order in these cases, namely that the property acquired by the good-believer will remain with him (we are talking, of course, only about real estate) - will remain with him! - in turn, the State will be able to recover losses from the perpetrator. The experience of Wilipson showed that we have very serious problems. The criminal law aspect is very important, but it is just one aspect, and with a broader view... in a comprehensive solution, we understand that there is a need to provide for a procedure in which the bona fide beneficiary will be able to obtain compensation. That is what the Ministry of Justice is proposing, we all support it, but it takes time to discuss it all in order to take a decision to answer the question that has been asked, so in fact we decided to move on two-speed trains, if I may say so, to quickly adopt amendments to the immanent's property and to the bona fide beneficiary, with this exception, and, at the same time, to start working on amendments that will deal with complex problems. Proposals have already been received, proposals have been made. On behalf of the Subcommittee on Criminal Law Policy, I ask the institutions to send their views, information on their vision, to provide data and to point out the problems that need to be addressed by 15 March. But I would like to draw your attention right away: the work will not only have to be done by the Criminal Procedure Act, because if the Civil Law does not provide for an opportunity for two people to sign a private will... if there were no such possibility in the past, such fraud would not be possible. That's what we solved, it can't be there anymore... Two people... sign something in a yard. It's good, but we have no matter what... The private will... and now, if someone writes it manually, then... Well, it makes it possible to falsify because the notary is not involved. There is a big question about the Earthbook. We understand that if a criminal offence has been committed, people are suffering, this can happen, but we need to look at the issue more widely and think about how to change the order, because I think the Landbook is not just a database where information can be entered without an analysis. So here will also be the job that needs to be done, because otherwise we do not need a landbook as such. This can be a database. Consider the role of a notary in business. It is also a big, big problem, and I want to draw your attention to this issue. I would like to tell you that five years ago, notaries offered a change of order, namely that they would not only confirm the authenticity of the signature, but work on each transaction. There were presentations in the Legal Commission, but the question had not been resolved. And I understand why. Because it can make the procedure expensive. Some think it's better - cheaper. But if cheap, it's unfortunately not safe. So we will have to think about what to do, because we realize that this is not the only case of Wilipson. If it were the only one, then the Saeima would make a decision and give it an apartment. There are criminal schemes. In criminal proceedings... I understand what we can do, but I also ask the Ministry of Justice to be actively involved and to think about complex solutions relating to other regulatory acts. Today, however, I would like to say thank you to all Members, we had many disputes, but I am pleased that Members understand that amendments are necessary and that this is not a story of one person. In this process, which was, by the way, launched in 2014, there are several people, several good-believers, and they can all lose their property. It must be understood that the state cannot simply say from the beginning... We cannot say that the state has suffered, then say that according to law the state has its possession, and dispose of it from the person who paid for it, who was sure he could become the owner. So we're making this exception. I ask you to adopt this draft law today... these amendments also at final reading. Why is that? Because next week, for example, Mr. Wilipson... There may already be a regional court sitting, which will put an end to this case, namely next week the country may become richer, because we will have another apartment. I think we should not allow that. The country is accomplice in this situation. There are criminals who committed a crime, but the state did not do everything it had to do to... what could have been done to prevent such a crime. So - let's protect one person, let's protect other people in similar situations, and let's work to be better, more effective protection for good-believers in criminal proceedings! Please support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2204-U12	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2204-U13	Good morning, dear colleagues! I join, of course, Mr Judine, in all his words, but I would first like to apologise to the Saeima instead of Mr Vilipson's family as well as to the other families who have suffered. The family has not been able or willing to arrange legislation for all these years, and thanks only to such a louder word... Like Mr. Wilipson... and for the mass media, we have finally managed to get to grips with this issue, and I hope that legislation will also work in the near future. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2204-U14	Is there anything else to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2204-U15	On behalf of the Commission, I ask the Saeima to examine and support the draft law ‘Amendment to the Criminal Procedure Law’ at first reading without re-examination by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2204-U16	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Criminal Procedure Law” at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, 94, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has therefore been approved. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2204-U17	On behalf of the Commission, please provide that the deadline for the second reading is 30 minutes and that the Parliament's extraordinary meeting of the second reading of the draft law will be held today.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-04-PT13-2204-U18	So the deadline for proposals - 30 minutes, by... well, by 10.10 a.m., consideration at the Saeima sitting - on 4 March this year. Dear colleagues, So the agenda for the first remote emergency sitting is under consideration today. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. Let's start the second remote emergency sitting on March 4, then at 9.55 a.m.
