ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U1	Honourable Members! Let's start the second remote emergency sitting on October 25th this year. On the agenda, consideration of the draft decision. Draft decision on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Annual Accounts and Consolidated Annual Accounts” (No. (1187/Lp13) exclusion from the State Budget Package 2022.’ Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U2	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission examined the legislative package, which comes together with the 2022 budget and the multiannual budget, and found one draft law in this package – “Amendments to the Annual Accounts and Consolidated Annual Accounts” – which should be excluded from this package because it does not directly affect the 2022 budget or the 2023 budget or the 2024 budget, but, of course, it is necessary to adopt this law in such a way that it can enter into force by 1 January of next year or 2022. We will see this bill at the next Saeima sitting on the Saeima... following the order adopted by the Saeima, but it will not be in this budget package. Therefore, the request – just like the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission - supported the withdrawal of this draft law from the package and its inclusion in the Saeima sitting in the near future, as well as the determination of urgency for this draft law... Please also support the exclusion of this draft law from the 2022 national budget package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U3	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the exclusion of the draft decision “On Amendments to the Law on Annual Accounts and Consolidated Annual Accounts” from the national budget package of 2022! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Consequently, the draft law ‘Amendments to the Annual Accounts and Consolidated Annual Accounts Act’ is excluded from the next year’s national budget package. Dear colleagues, So let us start work on the draft state budget for next year and related draft laws. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments... That's... Colleagues, I will inform you of the procedure for examining the annual state budget and related draft laws. I would like to remind you that when we look at the annual state budget and related draft laws at first reading, we will first call on the Chairman of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission to report on draft laws submitted to the Saeima and then, on the basis of the request made by the committee responsible, to establish urgency for these draft laws, we will vote in favour of determining urgency for each draft law. After the vote on urgency, we will begin the debate and, in line with the parliamentary order, Members will be able to debate the whole package of draft budgetary laws. And now I give the floor to Martin Bondar, Chairman of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U4	As the Speaker of the Saeima has already mentioned, let us first look at every draft law, and on behalf of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) I will ask for urgent support, because we have defined all these draft laws as... To be precise, we have voted in favour of urgency within the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. I will therefore read about each draft law separately and ask you to vote for urgency. On recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Management of Public Shares and Capital Companies” as urgent. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U5	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Equity Shares and Corporate Governance” as urgent! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 60, it's 24, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U6	The next draft law that I will ask for urgent recognition is the draft law on Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U7	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” as urgent! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 60, it's 22, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U8	The next item is the bill "Amendment to the Film Act". Please support urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U9	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to Film Law” as urgent! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 60, it's 23, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U10	The next item is the draft law on Social Services and Social Assistance. Please support urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U11	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on social services and social assistance. Please, let's vote! It's not about - 60, it's 23, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U12	The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission also recognised the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” as urgent. Please also support your urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U13	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” as urgent! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U14	The next item is the bill "Amendments to the Law on International Assistance". Please also support your urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U15	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on International Assistance". Please, let's vote! No, 58, no, 22, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U16	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Next is the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance”. Please also support your urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U17	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance” as urgent! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 60, it's 23, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U18	The next is the draft law on “Amendments to the Competition Law”. The Commission has been identified as a matter of urgency. Please also support your urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U19	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Competition”. Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U20	Colleagues! Next is the draft law “Amendments to the law on maternity and sickness insurance”. The Commission has been identified as a matter of urgency. Please also support your urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U21	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” as urgent! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 59, it's against - 22, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U22	Colleagues and colleagues! The next item is the bill ‘Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child’. The Commission has been identified as a matter of urgency. The request is also for you to be declared urgent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U23	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Children” as urgent! Please, let's vote! - 61, against - 23, refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U24	The next is the draft law on amendments to the Land Books Act. The Commission has been identified as a matter of urgency. The request is also for you to be declared urgent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U25	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on amendments to the Land Books Act! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 60, it's 24, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U26	The next draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” is pending for urgent recognition. The Commission has been identified as a matter of urgency. The request is also for you to be declared urgent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U27	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” as urgent! Please, let's vote! No, 58, no, 22, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U28	The next is the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2022, 2023 and 2024. It was declared urgent by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. You are also asked to acknowledge this as a matter of urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U29	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent adoption of the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2022, 2023 and 2024! Please, let's vote! No, 53, against - 28, refrains. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U30	Finally, the draft law “On the state budget for 2022”. In the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, the draft law was declared urgent. You are also asked to acknowledge this as a matter of urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U31	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “On the State Budget 2022” as urgent! Please, let's vote! - 51, against - 32, refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent. Dear colleagues, therefore, the draft law on the state budget for 2022, as well as the accompanying package of draft laws, have been declared urgent. Member Mārtiņš Bondars on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U32	So, once again... Continuing with the report on the draft budget and the budget package, I would like to say that, on 19 October this year, we heard the Prime Minister of State and the Minister of Finance, who reported on... its vision of the 2022 budget. Of course, they had to conclude that there are now three crises. One is the Covid-19 crisis, the other is the border crisis, and the third is the energy crisis. Nevertheless, they have a vision of how to build the 2022 budget so that, let us say, the country can function properly. The 2022 budget, according to the Prime Minister, is a question of... One of the issues is the question of competitiveness. Thus, the unlimited minimum will be 350 euros from 1 January, and 500 euros from 1 July. Science will be increased... 32 percent. Loans from exporting companies. Plus, of course, support for regional development. Second. Without competitiveness, there will be an increase in public service funding. So the medical wages will rise. Support for oncology will increase in this budget. A third of all... from the new money so, or fiscal space, what it's called... the new money will be for healthcare. Over the last five years, we have doubled - we have doubled! - financing of health care. In addition to healthcare funding, there will of course be (not heard.) ... and educational staff. Without competitiveness and the state, let's say... Increase in service financing... Resources will also be allocated to strengthen national identity. So reduced VAT on books and periods. Money is given for the Song Celebration, and the cinema is supported in addition. So that we can be proud of the fact that there are three very important things in this budget, yes, and the Prime Minister has spoken about it. The Minister of Finance, in addition to what the Prime Minister said, mentioned that the issue of training of residents had been arranged. The Minister of Finance also mentioned that the negotiations with the Municipal Union were constructive and productive. If next year 20-25 issues remained uncoordinated, then this year only six, which is progress. The average increase per municipality is 3.1 per cent and will help those municipalities with lower incomes. So that's it... It should be borne in mind that in 2022 - also mentioned by the Minister for Finance - the European Union's resources will increase rapidly. Without the Minister of Finance and Prime Minister, Inna Steinbuka, President of the Board of Fiscal Discipline, attended the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) on 19 October, which said that he was in principle in favour of the government-led project. Why, of course, the way the budget is going is quite complicated. What Mrs Steinbuck has drawn attention to is that risk assessment is a very, very important issue. The next year there will be an increase in inflation. If we look... Of course, there is concern about the borrowing of adults. Latvia is one of the countries of the European Union with the lowest borrowing rates compared to gross domestic product. Well, about this way, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Chairman of the Fiscal Discipline Council reported throughout the whole square. In addition, we listened to ministers and ministerial representatives who spoke about... which is then earmarked for the ministries in that budget and how it could look... That's a vision... in the ministerial section... I hope that ministers will also apply to the debate and perhaps tell them more in detail about their vision. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission supported both the package and the draft Law “On the State Budget for 2022” in general. Please support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U33	Thank you to the committee rapporteur. Dear colleagues, I must inform you of the order of the debate. So: first, Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš will speak; then - Minister of Finance Jānis Reirs, who is nominated as representative of the Cabinet of Ministers; then - Minister of Defence Artis Pabriks; then - Member Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis; then - Member Ivars Zariņš, then - Minister of the Interior Marija Golubeva. These speakers have taken part in the debate in writing. The following order of speakers is followed: Members Valery Agešins, Krišjānis Feldmans, Tālis Linkaitis, Arturs Toms Plēšs, Lubova Švecova, Inga Goldberga, Reinis Znotiņš, Ramona Petraviča. And now we are starting a debate. Name to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U34	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Dear Members and honourable Members, Ladies and gentlemen! The annual national budget is the way the government shows how it hopes to implement its policies. So the basis is politics, and the budget is the way we offer the Saeima... how to allocate funds to implement this determined policy. However, in order to better understand the draft state budget for 2022, the government plans, I suggest that we look at a little in the recent past first to see where we have been and where we are going (including through the 2022 budget). I suggest that our country... For the last 30 years, we can divide into these four stages. The first stage was the restoration of independence. The second stage was privatisation. The third stage was the reintegration phase. And fourthly, what we are at the moment; I have called it reindustrialisation or smart industrialisation. That is where we are at the moment. So what was at the stage of the restoration of independence? There actually three things, of course, the most important. We regained our independence, restored our independent state, and we established a democratic state administration. But at the same time... Remember that we still had to get... and it was also done before 1994... I had to get all the Russian armed... armed forces from the territory of Latvia. It's all so closed in the first stage that... In fact, with the withdrawal of Russian troops in 1994, this stage ended. And the next stage - the privatisation phase. Of course, it was important to denationalise property and create private capital. Of course, everything at this stage did not happen as it could have been the best... build up. And the result was that in our country, too, the so-called oligarchs were born or... Those who have successfully not only achieved successful privatisation decisions, but also... Several of them have been involved in the political life of our country for years. The next, third, stage for us was the reintegration phase. It was a stage where we joined as a country... more and more... various types of organisations, setting themselves up in a European, Western European political environment. The first task for us was to join the World Trade Organisation; we joined it in 1999. Then followed by an ambitious year - 2004: that year we joined both the European Union and NATO - the security alliance. Then, in 2007, we joined the Schengen area. Then we joined the euro area - it was in 2014. And the last such great step was that in 2016, we joined the so-called rich club of the countries, or OECD. Since then... Where are we going now? To what is called reindustrialisation. If we have already joined all Western organizations and clubs, now we have to use it to build our... total prosperity. This is much less visible than the previous steps. This stage is less marked by major events, as it is mainly related to environmental management. But of course... If we think that development, including economic development, is taking place in the country in stages, then we can see that we are now doing our utmost to move up and reach the next stage of prosperity. Of course, all this is directed at our country's exports, so that we can raise funds from abroad precisely to improve our own system and prosperity. Of course, in the middle while the country is going on these stages of development, let us say, come - and in the future too, unfortunately, will come! - various crises. I will mention a number of what has happened in this period. We had the so-called Russian crisis in 1998, in 1999. We had a huge global economic crisis in 2008, 2009... approximately ten years apart. At the moment, as Mr Bondara said, we actually have three crises that coincide at the same time (this is probably not the case in the past!) , - we have the Covid-19 pandemic, which began in 2020 and is still going on; we have the Belarus border crisis, which started this year; and now, all this summer and autumn, we also find ourselves in a certain energy crisis. This is also linked to conditions outside our borders, but it also, of course, has a negative impact on our economies. But it should be remembered that every such crisis is an opportunity for the country to change, learn and improve. So what happened as a result of the Russian crisis? If you look at our export performance, as it was until 1998, 1999 - our country's external trade... Three... The fourth was still linked to Russia and other CIS countries. The result of this crisis was that out of 75 percent... You could say that our dependence on Russian exports passed away... 75 per cent, what... was related to the European Union... So our country and our businessmen were able to use this crisis to completely reorient their activities towards Europe. When the world economic crisis erupted, then Prime Minister Dombrovskis set the goal of joining the euro area, and that was achieved. As we remember, in the past in the event of any crisis, also money... In the event of a financial crisis or economic crisis, there was always a question of currency stability and cost, but now we have this currency risk... This has also completely disappeared for all our operators, exporting companies. Now... We have three crises now - Covid-19, Belarus borders and energy. And, of course, to overcome these crises... For example, in order to overcome the Covid-19 crisis that is currently taking place, we continue to invest very significantly in our healthcare system. Of course, this money alone will not correct the system, but it is easier to provide better services to our citizens. So we need to use this pandemic not only to increase funding for health care, but, of course, also to put this system in order much better, because in many respects it has not yet been done in the end, it is still in the process. The Belarus border crisis shows us, in fact, how... You can say that you show us the challenges we face in a rich environment. Our Southern Neighbourhood - Belarus... Its current head in such a totally aggressive position against the European Union, the Baltic States, and therefore against Latvia, including... The result of this crisis will be that we will move this issue and build our external border - the border with our southern neighbours and our eastern neighbours. Of course, it also encourages the entire European Union to look again at its own... the overall security situation and how we can improve it in Europe as a whole, not only in Latvia or in the Baltic States. And the energy crisis... It is very clear that the European Union as a whole has a huge dependence on natural gas - mainly those imported. And the largest individual supplier is Russia: more than 40 percent - 41 percent! - gas... for the whole of the European Union, gas comes from Russia. This enormous addiction is what must be removed. We have long understood this in Latvia; we are developing renewable energy resources more and more. We need to use this crisis to promote new investments in electricity production even more quickly and quickly. We have a transnational project... between Latvia and Estonia, it is for the development of the offshore wind park; it is moving forward. And we have to overcome the resistance that has been so far in several municipalities... at municipal level... Against new land-based wind farms, we need to develop domestic energy production in order to reduce our country's dependence on imported sources and on the major possible global shocks that may be linked to energy prices. But I am convinced of one thing: like our country in the past, has overcome any and every crisis that has come to it, we will now, together, overcome the co-crisis and the Belarus border crisis and, of course, also this challenge in the energy market. The key thing for us in the country is to keep our mind cool and not to be tempted to split, not to be tempted to point the finger to each other and say, how wise I am, and the other not. This trend, which is beginning to be marked in our country, is very negative. I call on you not to do this, because the forces that are outside of our country, who have worked for a long time on telling us that Latvia is not dealing with itself in some way - they are also creating this misunderstanding, trying to create hostile camps in our society - one against the other. Colleagues! We're not in the Saeima, we're not in the country... We're not opponents of each other. We have one opponent in the pandemic, and that is this terrible virus that can be saved by vaccination. The Belarus border crisis - where our country has reacted decisively and quickly; we have closed our border and will continue to keep it at the external borders of the European Union and Schengen area. And more. Due to the rise in energy prices, the government has already taken decisions to increase the available money resources for poor families and households who have difficulty paying their bills. We will also be able to revise and supplement these programmes as necessary. Together we will overcome... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Now I'm still salting about that whole... the stage at which, as I have argued, we are - the so-called smart reindustrialisation. What does that really mean, and what should we do as politicians? The key is to continue and improve the reforms undertaken in a number of areas. We imagine that we are like a farmer who is preparing his field - there is a very large amount of preparatory work to be done before spring and summer harvests appear. And what we are doing right now - we are sorting out the environment, we are sorting out the countryside so that our economy can get even better off and grow. What are these various reforms? I'll give you five. The field of education. There we actually have two in one, it could say - we have a school network and a content reform going on. And, of course, we also have a reform of the higher education administration, which has already been voted on at the Saeima, and which will help make our universities more competitive. By changing the governance structure, we are more part of the other traditions of the Western world, and this will benefit both our students and, of course, our country's economy. It's going to be good! Health care. Mr Bondar has already mentioned this. Since 2016, in five years' time, our contribution to healthcare, our health budget, has doubled. We have doubled the health budget over the last five years. And we will also continue with ambitious investments in the 2022 budget, an increase in funds for healthcare. And we still have important work ahead of us - the so-called hospital level reform, which can be said to be an analogue to the school network reform - to concentrate on fewer hospital numbers, but to make them stronger. We are increasingly going to it - to transfer patients to a powerful hospital, not... Maybe each patient has a hospital ten miles [over km] away. We are going to a model that is everywhere in Europe - that hospitals, doctors, specialists and equipment are concentrated in one place and that patients from the edges are brought to specialists who are able to provide them with quality health care. This is still in the process. The next area. The rule of law and the rule of law. Many may have forgotten the so-called capital repairs of the financial system - financial supervision or financial... Either, changes in the supervision of the financial system. It has been ambitious and very successful. Setting up this government after the last... For the previous parliamentary elections, the external image of our country was very bad, almost destroyed. We're... By reforming the banking system, as well as by entering new people into positions, so-called key positions, and now moving towards the reuniting of the financial supervisor and the central bank in a single system, we have succeeded - we have regained our international reputation. And that is also, of course, reflected in our... the increasing investments that I am going to be talking about. State security. That is the fourth area. For our protection, we continue and will continue to devote now more than two percent of our country's gross domestic product. And, like the health budget, the defence budget has doubled over the last five years. So we have effectively doubled investment over five years in healthcare and public defence, and we will continue in this direction as well. And also in home affairs, which may not have been given the necessary attention for a long time, we already have... Reforms have already started, for example, in the work of the DGT and the police, but... education will also be strengthened with the 2022 budget... Our minister will be able to talk about this too... There is, of course, a great deal of money to enable us to raise wages and reduce these emerging gaps between defence forces and national internal security forces. Finally, regional development (but perhaps it is most important). For us, administrative territorial reform is not only legally adopted, but already... new - bigger and thus stronger - municipalities have now been elected. In the 2022 budget, too, we intend to continue to invest in our municipalities so that these new regional centres become stronger and also continue to grow economically. All these reforms are under way. The question may arise: when will the result be? What does all this mean? I can tell you that the result is already visible, in particular, in our economic growth. Our economy, Latvia, continues to grow today, although there is a pandemic. In the second quarter... adjusted data... We grew up by 11 percent. A very important indicator to see whether its growth is sustainable and how the investments that create jobs, of course, new export opportunities come. In terms of investment, 2020, which was a very gloomy year - the Covide year - we had the best year out of the previous seven (if measured by investment attraction). In particular, 250 million were mobilised in 2020. In turn, in 2021, this year's semester, which also... is still in the community sign, more than 300 million have already been attached. So we are already over the full result of the previous year in the semester of this year. I have spoken to a number of these entrepreneurs who have decided to invest in our country... or invest even more, and they all have one answer: the environment that we have created in Latvia is good. And it will become even better! We will continue to sort out the environment. We will attract more and more investments which... will still require a better skilled workforce, but will therefore also be able to pay - and be able to pay! - better wages for our workers. The key thing for us in drawing up next year's budget is to continue with this very good economic development, which has begun. We cannot afford to stop this in any way. Now, returning to the very budget of 2022... I will talk about three sections of the draft state budget proposed by the government: improving the competitiveness of the state, improving the availability and quality of public services, and strengthening our national identity. So what exactly are we offering? There's a lot, I'll highlight just a few things. Improving the competitiveness of our country. Firstly, we will continue the work that has already begun: reducing labour taxes. Colleagues, you remember that all of us together... We decided already this year, 2021, to reduce social tax by one percentage point. Next year we offer to continue this activity, but this time to focus on lower wages, i.e. to raise the non-deemable minimum from 1 January to 350 euros, and from 1 July to 500 euros. Secondly, investment in science. We all know that this is an ancient truth that can be seen, for example, in Scandinavia... In the Nordic countries, Germany and elsewhere, that by investing in science... it is a much needed contribution to the long-term development of the country. This year's budget proposal... and our Minister for Education and Science will talk about this too... We offer to raise the basic funding for science by 32 percent - by a third. This is an ambitious contribution. In general, the question could be asked: could any sector benefit effectively from more than one third of the increase over one year? This is what we are now offering, in this way, investment where... We say all the time that science is important; in the 2022 budget, it will be possible to see it in concrete terms. Then, too... We understand that the economy is driven... of which - large companies, the result of which... There are many small companies around them... could be said in that development of the value chain. We're going on... We plan to continue the so-called large increase in the investment fund by about 40 million. As I said, in regional development we plan... EUR 100 million for our municipalities: 70 million in terms of loans and 30 million in the form of investments or grants. And it's all kinds of infrastructure that will contribute to our economic development... of course, that's also the way. Title Two: On access to and quality of public services. From all of our base... increase in the budget base... We are offering an increase of around EUR 300 million in the budgetary base. More than one third - more than one hundred million - of this will go directly to healthcare. The Minister for Health will be able to tell you more about the planned distribution, but there are both ambitious amounts for raising medical fees and increasing the necessary functions or services, such as oncology, other rare diseases... and much more. Then in education. ( I already mentioned science.) There we invest for a third more in the budget base, but in education, the teachers themselves are provided with a full wage supplement according to the timetable that has been developed. This is already fully available in this budget. In the home affairs, as I said, salaries are allocated more than EUR 20 million, and in the special transport sector, which would be the case for the GD and the police, almost EUR 12 million is available. There is, of course, much else, but ministers will, of course, also be able to explain in more detail about this. The third block in the budget is strengthening national identity. It is unnecessary to remind colleagues that only Latvia - Latvia! - can strengthen our Latvian national identity. Here are several purely practical things. So we have the support of the media, for the printed press and books, VAT will be reduced to five percent in order to promote the development of these industries, let us say, in the language of our country. The Media Support Fund almost... more than two and a half million euro will be invested in total. This is also very important for strengthening democracy. What is very important is that, as we know very well, the long-term economic development of any country, democracy, democratic traditions and institutions must be very strong, and the control and criticism of the media, and comments on all of this... independent media control and criticism... This is a very important cornerstone and we will continue to invest to ensure this. Finally, we have a very strong tradition in this area, such as the Song Celebration, and we intend to invest EUR 4 million in order to only strengthen this tradition; this is a tradition that has experienced very great challenges in a understandable sense, particularly during the pandemic. The entire budget and all three sections are focused on making it possible for us to implement the so-called smart reindustrialisation policy so that we can continue to go up the development ladder and build the well-being of our citizens. I assume that we will continue with all the fundamental reforms, we will invest in science, health, education and the home system, and, of course, labour taxes will be reduced to make our businesses more competitive. Colleagues! This budget is the fourth budget of this government and the last budget for this parliamentary term until the parliamentary elections next October. I would like to thank each of the parliamentary colleagues for their tireless work, especially our coalition Members for their work and contributions throughout this time, of course, also in the country's budget for this year or next year in these particularly difficult pandemic circumstances, where we are looking at the budget in such a remote way (for example, for the second year in a row). Of course, I would also like to thank all government ministers and ministries for their self-deserving work, not only in the context of a pandemic, but also in shaping this country's budget. Special thanks to the Minister of Finance, Janis Reiers, and the whole Ministry of Finance for the huge work they have invested in shaping this budget. I think that this work was perhaps the most difficult one this year, and I would like to thank the Finance Minister for his huge contribution to making this budget. Colleagues, I call on all of you to support the preparation of the national budget for 2022. I call upon all of you to make your contribution towards the further development of our country's economies, our prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U35	Thank you Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš. The name is the Minister of Finance Janis Reirs.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U36	Highly honored Chairman of the Saeima. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Dear colleagues, Despite the conditions of high uncertainty, the pandemic that lasts for the second year, and the hybrid war at the eastern border and information space of Latvia, the Latvian government has worked mobilized and united at the 2022 budget. Today, the Saeima is examining the most important public finance documents - the draft state budget for 2022 and the draft law that will shape our budgetary framework in the next three years. The prepared draft budget ensures financial stability both for the performance of public functions and for the provision of services. We managed to balance the budget at all levels of government. This will enable us to safeguard the stability of public finances, the security of citizens and, if necessary, to withstand future crises. This budget is development-oriented, responsible and balanced across sectors. It allocates resources to care for the health and well-being of citizens, as well as money for national development and investment. This budget focuses on three areas of growth: strengthening access to public services, increasing national competitiveness and strengthening national identity. In order to cover all the needs of Latvian society, we met representatives of local governments, social partners of government, cooperation partners, non-governmental organisations and politicians in productive budget negotiations. We have taken into account the needs of the population of both the immediate and the outermost regions, as well as the need for government policy to promote entrepreneurship, which provides jobs and tax revenues in the state budget. We have taken care of the salaries and working conditions of medical, teachers, pre-school teachers, social workers, culture, home affairs and other sectors. The budget addresses many other acute and chronic needs in fields such as education, health, home affairs and other areas, such as accommodation for residents. In these budget negotiations, we have achieved that many of the important issues raised by our partners are being addressed. In this budget framework and in the next three years, we will really solve many of the many problems. I would like to thank the coalition partners, to thank the ministers for their constructive and collegial cooperation in the budget negotiations, for their solidarity, their ability to agree on government priorities and common objectives. Honourable Members! Now, a little bit about the fiscal framework. Given the uncertainty caused by the pandemic, the EU's fiscal discipline rules were relaxed. Instead of the provisions of the Fiscal Discipline Act and the Stability and Growth Pact, the European Union's fiscal recommendations provide that national-funded current expenditure does not grow faster than potential GDP growth of 10 years; public investment is supported, on the basis of the next: 2022. - the year; and support for the Covid-19 crisis management measures. In this budget planning, we have taken on board both the requirements of the European Commission and we have taken advantage of the opportunities offered by our investment projects. Working on the next year's budget, it was important for us to distinguish between current expenditure and one-off expenditure in the crisis. Latvia has financed the Covid-19 crisis management measures at the expense of debt and will continue to do so if necessary. As gross domestic product grows, debt-to-GDP will decline, ensuring the sustainability of debt. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that excessive and unjustified spending in the long term may have a negative impact on the financial situation and well-being of our country, so that the regular financing of public expenditure at the expense of debt is under no circumstances allowed. As the preferential fiscal rules have led most countries in the European Union to a higher level of debt, the European Commission has launched a discussion on the revision of the rules on fiscal discipline. Latvia has also expressed its support for stricter fiscal discipline in the post-pandemic context. It is likely that the fiscal discipline rules will already apply to budgeting next year. Colleagues, a little bit about the stability and reputation of our public finances, because this is one of the very important indicators that has helped us overcome this crisis. Despite the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and its challenges, Latvia has maintained a stable position in the credit rating group A, demonstrating high investor confidence in the state’s creditworthiness. The high credit rating provides an opportunity for Latvia to receive loans at a low, close to zero interest rate. This ensures that no additional expenditure on state debt service is incurred in the state budget. In addition, S&P Global Ratings granted Latvia an A+ rating in February 2020. This is the highest credit rating that Latvia has had since 1997, when Latvia was first rated in this credit rating. Dear colleagues, On the main indicators of the budget. As usual, next year's budget is larger in both revenue and expenditure. National consolidated budget revenue is estimated at EUR 10.6 billion in 2022. The expenditure is estimated at € 12.4 billion. The planned revenue in the national general budget amounts to 7.5 billion euros, while expenditure amounts to 9.3 billion euros. The special budget, on the other hand, is balanced: both the revenue and expenditure headings account for EUR 3.4 billion. The general government deficit for 2022 is estimated at €1.62 billion, or 4.8 percent of gross domestic product, with permanent expenditure of 3.8 percent and one percent directed towards investment. Colleagues! A little bit about the macro-economics and risks. In 2022, the Latvian economy continued to recover after the crisis, GDP... According to the Ministry of Finance, which is consistent with our domestic GDP macro-economics as well as with the European Commission and other international institutions, we plan five per cent. At the same time as faster economic growth, consumer prices will also accelerate, and the wage growth that we are planning to make up for six percent will remain. The unemployment rate will continue to decline, and we believe that this will not exceed the seven percentage points mark. In its forecasts, the Ministry of Finance has based on conservative assumptions as well as an assessment of internal and external risks. The measures taken by the government to boost economic support and growth play a key role in overcoming the Covid-19 crisis. It should be noted here that Latvia implemented one of the most generous EU support programmes for entrepreneurs and workers. It provided substantial support both for economic growth (which we saw and the Prime Minister also mentioned the growth rates of the second quarter) and also helped to maintain more than 60,000 jobs at the beginning of the year when we had closed business. It should be noted, however, that support measures will not be able to fully re-establish the worst affected sectors of the crisis, such as transport, accommodation, catering, art, entertainment, recreation and professional services. In the medium term, the development of these sectors remains uncertain and depends to a large extent on the success of the Covid-19 limitation. Like all forecasts since the start of the Covid-19 crisis, the budgetary forecasts for 2022 have been developed under conditions of high uncertainty. The major risks of the projections are related to the spread of the disease and the course of vaccination. Covid-19 the third wave in the autumn and new restrictions on sector activity may lead to lower economic growth rates. Negative risks are also related to possible overheating and lack of capacity in the construction sector, which can lead to a rapid price increase. There are also risks associated with the increase in the shadow economy and the rapid increase in energy prices, which can hamper economic growth. Among the positive risks, it can be noted that faster economic growth is in Latvia's external markets, trading partners... our most important export countries. In the medium term, Latvia will have access to a large part of the European Union structural funds, the Recovery Fund, as well as investments for the implementation of Rail Baltica project. A key role in overcoming the effects of the Covid-19 crisis will be played by the new investment programming period of the European Union funds from 2021 to 2027, where we have access to more than four billion euros. A very important part of the budget (from the first budget onwards; let me remind you that this is the fourth budget of this government) is the revision of expenditure. This year, too, this work has been carried out. Here I would like to thank all those involved, starting with Mr Zakatistova, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, as well as representatives of other sectors and ministries, who have managed to find more than EUR 170 million in funding new political initiatives, replacing those programmes that may not be working very well. Dear Members, Now on government priorities. As has already been mentioned, one of the most important priorities is the reduction of labour taxation. If we remember, then consistently, both in 2020, this year and next year, we are proposing a reduction in labour taxation. In 2020, this activity was increased to a non-equitable minimum of EUR 300. If last year we reduced social contributions by one percent - half a percent on the employer's side and half a percent on the employee's side - which left more than 80 million in company accounts and stock, then this year... offering this budget, we're going further and cutting the waste... I am sorry that from 1 January we are increasing the uncircumcised minimum to EUR 350, and from 1 July to EUR 500, which will leave more than EUR 90 million in the minority population (and here it should be noted that it is in the less prosperous population). Continuing on the priorities of the government. The health sector is experiencing the fastest increase in funding. This will amount to more than one and a half billion euros next year. Specifically, EUR 1.531 billion. The area of health is among the priorities of our government. Such a rapid increase in funding has not been seen in any sector and, as has already been mentioned, health sector funding has almost doubled over the last six years (which has also happened with defence funding). Compared to other sectors, the health budget has grown at the fastest rate in recent years, reaching almost six per cent of GDP in 2021 together with Covid-19 expenditure. Nevertheless, in the coming years, both the increase in funding and the improvement of the healthcare system will be necessary. The increase in the health budget for next year is mainly due to the increase in medical fees, but healthcare must be accessible to the public and services must be aimed at the person, and access to the doctor in good time. On the budgetary priorities, I can say that the government has agreed to provide an additional EUR 700 million to finance measures important for health, education, home affairs, culture and other sectors. EUR 385 million is earmarked for government and sectoral priorities based on a long-term impact, EUR 270 million - for major investments requiring one-off investment, EUR 41 million - to mitigate the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic, which will be allocated as necessary in the budgetary execution process for 2022, with targeted support where this is most needed. The government has supported additional funding to increase remuneration in the preparation of the budget and these sectors are very wide. I will mention some of them: doctors, educators, police officers, social workers, culture workers. There has been much discussion about the scale of wage increases, often hearing that this is not enough. There are also calls for a much faster increase in pay, but, colleagues, we are following the recommendations of the European Commission in fiscal discipline. Colleagues! More specifically than these priorities now. In the health, education, home affairs and cultural sectors, there are almost €80 million in salaries. The increase in remuneration is also intended for social workers, carers, pre-school teachers and cultural workers. And here is EUR 15 million. The security of Latvia's citizens in these conditions of high uncertainty is particularly important, therefore the funding has been increased in several areas related to the country's external and internal security. The Latvian defence budget next year is 2.23 percent of GDP or 757 million euros. It will increase the capabilities of the National Armed Forces and the Land Guard, contribute to the Latvian defence industry and regional development, contribute to the patriotic education of young people and implementation of comprehensive national protection. EUR 5.3 million have been earmarked for priority measures related to national security. The funding is intended to build the eastern border of the country. The remuneration of employees of the State Probation Service has been increased. There will be an increase in salaries in the Financial Police. As I said earlier, the salaries of workers in the home sector will also increase. The system of education of state police officers, including the establishment of a training centre for investigators, will be improved. Civilly active, involved and democratic societies are safe and require a strong non-governmental sector, so the funds are also programmed for the priorities of the Society Integration Fund. Dear colleagues, continuing on the figures. Significant funding is earmarked for health services. If, in previous years, funds, large amounts of money, were earmarked for wage increases only, then this budget also covers health services, which is EUR 55 million. Oncology - purchase of countervailable medicines, equipment and equipment; provision of palliative care; devices for the self-administration of insulin in children and many other priority cases. Apart from the teachers' salaries mentioned above, more than €11 million is earmarked for education and science development: for funding basic science, for basic and applied research €10 million. Resources for the development and development of a quality long-term framework for youth work and for the promotion of young people's participation are foreseen. Additional measures are foreseen to ensure the continued performance of public functions in the sport sector. Colleagues! About municipal finances. Local governments are a very important partner in government cooperation, and these were the first budgeting negotiations after the administrative territorial reform. It is obvious that the reform has a significant positive impact on budgetary planning and the public will feel the benefits already in 2022 and in the long term. I would like to thank the President of the Latvian Municipal Union, Mr Kaminska, and the Board for their constructive cooperation. After the administrative territorial reform, the interests of municipalities have clearly become more united and a more structured approach. Thanks to its collegial work and understanding, significant agreements have been reached in the budget for next year on issues relevant to state and local government. On the forecasts and stability of municipal budget revenue, I can say that reducing the tax burden on labour (as I have already mentioned, and Mr Bondara and the Prime Minister mentioned the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission) are important and, by reducing this burden, the increase in municipal budgets will be 3.1 percent. Without this increase, we have also created a solution to support those municipalities with an increase of less than three per cent and a per capita income of less than EUR 800, as well as a target of EUR 100 million for municipal investment funds, of which 30 million are grants and 70 million are borrowing. An additional €57 million is also foreseen for road repair and construction, continuing the infrastructure necessary for territorial reform. We will also guarantee the expected revenue of 100 per cent for municipalities. Dear colleagues, A little more about investment and emergency measures. So, as I said, we have planned more than 250... concretely, EUR 270 million. Capital investment and investment in capital companies of the Ministry of Health - Riga Eastern Clinical University Hospital, Riga Psychiatry and Drugology Centre, Pauls Stradiņš Clinical University Hospital. We will also invest in the infrastructure of the national social care centres. Investments will be directed towards development projects of the Latvian military and defence industry, purchase of special fire-fighting and rescue vehicles, improvement of the sector infrastructure of the Ministry of Agriculture and restoration of technical provision, reconstruction and renovation of the national regional roads. And, as I said, also for municipal investment projects. Investment to promote entrepreneurship is a very important investment chapter. In cooperation with the Ministry of Economics, a specific financial instrument is planned to promote a more rapid development of entrepreneurship following the Covid-19 crisis. This would provide loans for investment projects (Sound interruption.) ... greater support. Next, about the European funds. I would like to emphasise that, in addition to budgetary investments, we plan important contributions of European Union funds to development... the financing of the economy from next year onwards. The next year's budget will be marked by the historically largest annual co-financing of the European Union for budgetary investments, with a further significant increase in the medium term. This will have a positive impact on investment flows. In 2022 as a whole, we plan and will have EUR 1.2 billion available, both from the European Union's funds and from the RRF. Next year we will intensively continue the implementation of projects of the current programming period of European Union funds with these available means. The investment project package of the RRF or the Recovery Fund will also be activated next year, where investments will be made by 2026 and EUR 1.8 billion will be available. Here I would like to mention the main things - digital transformation, climate neutrality, improving the energy efficiency of multi-apartment houses, which is very important at these times of energy crisis, because we have information from companies that serve the house, that savings for warmed houses are up to 60 percent, which reduces these bills. Significant investment is also being made in the development of key business digital skills. Supporting the development of innovation clusters, the development of new innovative products. The health sector also has an important contribution from European Union funding. For the reform of the efficiency of the health services network as a whole, the Recovery Plan provides for €181 million. A project - support for strengthening the health care infrastructure of universities and regional hospitals - will be implemented covering at least 10 large hospitals and 40 secondary outpatient providers. Part of this amount - EUR 23 million - is intended for the development of improved service delivery models, including the improvement of the continuing education system for medical professionals and the establishment of uniform principles in the field of oncology. Thus, already in 2022, budget expenditure - a co-financing of 720 million euro - for the implementation of these projects is planned. Honourable Members! Now recapture... I would like to point out the main benefits of the 2022 budget. The budget has been created in close cooperation with the social partners and the Latvian Municipal Union, discussing and looking for the most optimal solutions in this not quite simple situation. Agreement has been reached with municipalities on important financial issues, providing substantial funding for municipal investment in the amount of EUR 100 million. Additional investments in infrastructure - regional roads - are planned at state security related sites. Targeted support will be provided to municipalities with lower revenue, predictability and stability of budget revenue will be ensured for municipalities with a 100 per cent guarantee on income. Budgetary planning is sustainable, the expenditure is covered in the medium term without any increase in taxes. Reducing the tax burden on labour continues, increasing the competitiveness of our companies in the Baltic market. Significant funding for future development is planned, investing in education and science, applied research and participation in international projects. Additional funding is planned for access to health care, including oncology. Provision is made for funding for the increase in the remuneration of medical professionals, the execution of the schedule for the increase in the remuneration of teachers. So this is the fifth year, the final year, for the execution of teachers' pay schedules. A rapid increase in European Union funding is expected, with a positive impact on investment flows, as well as further implementation of existing projects of European Union funds and European Economic Area support programmes. A programme is being launched for the next multiannual budget period of the European Union. I would remind you that by 2027 Latvia has a total of EUR 4.43 billion available in this programme. We have allocated EUR 1.82 billion to the implementation of reforms and investments by 2026 from the RFF. Together with the ministers in the government and colleagues in the Ministry of Finance, we have, in fact, drowned this budget. I would like to take the opportunity to thank the team of the Ministry of Finance, who worked both during and outside the working hours, so that the draft budget that you, honourable Members, will see is of high quality and timely. I would also like to express my thanks to all those working in the financial sector in each ministry who worked without counting their working time, even outside working time, so that this budget can be prepared. Colleagues! The state budget is the basis for the development of all sectors in everyday life as well as in crisis situations. Once adopted, a balanced budget will underpin the stability and development of the country. Dear Members of the Saeima! I call on you to discuss, evaluate and support the national budget and the medium-term budget for next year in a responsible manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U37	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. Colleagues! We will continue the debate after an hour break. There's also a record of Members. Interruption until 12.30 a.m. So we get back to work at 12.30. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U38	(Sound rupture) ... After a break and continue the debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U39	Very respectful Head of the sitting! I ask you to combine the two times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U40	Your times are united. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U41	Very respectful Head of the sitting! High Prime Minister! Ministers! Colleagues! The budget is undoubtedly the most important document of public policy. The budget will affect both young people from Selija and grandmothers in Kurzeme, family in Latgale, Riga. The budget will show how we will live and, above all, what challenges we will face not only in the coming year, but also in the coming years. Clearly, 2022 will be difficult. Additional spending on electricity in cities and districts, increase in heat tariffs by as much as 40 percent - everyone will feel it already with the first bills. The cost of life in the countryside of Latvia will increase, with a minimum of 22 euros... in cities it can reach as much as 55 euros and more per month. Our entrepreneurs, who are facing severe local constraints and international challenges, also face difficulties. The total inflation in the following year, according to the Bank of Latvia, will be four percent, which is extremely high, especially in a situation where every third of Latvia's population is already facing huge problems to cover daily bills without future tariff increases. The five percent growth forecast on which this budget is based raises the question to me and my colleagues: do you really, when you look at what is happening around us today (not only in Latvia, but also elsewhere), Mr. Kariņš, think that this forecast is still real? Is it really the month of home sitting and the uncertainty that awaits the country in the coming months? For example, British health experts predict that the highest point in the UK will be reached in the middle of January (even at their vaccination coverage!) and invites people now to the third vaccine. Here the question arises as to what we are waiting for and whether this five-percent growth cannot prove to be an unachievable objective, which will undermine the whole calculation of the next year's budget. Further details on the own budget. Of course, the tax reform we see... For example, our colleagues in Lithuania introduce a reduced VAT rate for sectors affected by the crisis - public catering, sports clubs, sports events, cinema, entertainment, cultural events, restaurants, from July to the end of 2022. In Latvia - only for books. Colleagues, why is that? Nor can one mention the tax reform jointly driven by the Saeima and the government, which surprised Latvia and, in a way, “ provided a helping hand” already this year 270 thousand Latvians, introducing mandatory social contributions from 1 July. They are the recipients of small wages, it is Latvia's small business, which will suffer the most from it. The new system has been in operation for 116 days, but a large part of those 270 thousand taxable persons working in Latvia will learn about it as they approach Christmas, when our country is flooded with information about the bills made by the State Revenue Service. Colleagues, this is inevitable. This will be a completely unnecessary blow to our entrepreneurs and workers, and no cuts in the rate of social tax or unlimited minimum tax will solve this situation. I therefore call on you to listen to and correct the error. The largest business organisation in Latvia, the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, also calls for this. The President of Latvia also points to the need for a correction of the error. In the opinion of the Union of Greens/Farmers, the solution must be comprehensive, not narrow niche. Unfortunately, we had special taxpayers' regimes, now they are no longer in nature, and you will not find them in this budget either. This is a mistake that is reflected in the flawless shadow economy indicators. We are already with a significantly higher share of the shadow economy than in neighbouring countries - an increase of 1.6% in the previous year and a loss of more than one hundred million euro to the public budget. If this policy continues, the shadow economy will only grow next year, and it will no longer be a hundred million, it will already be several hundred million, which will be lost as a result of an unthinking tax policy. It will not compensate in any way for the increase in other taxes, on the contrary, it will increase the lack of trust between governments and taxpayers. During the crisis, the Union of Greens/Farmers calls for a hand rather than pushing the head under water for our entrepreneurs and small businesses. About education. We see an increase in science of 30 percent, but we do not say that it is only 10 percent of the total funding needed for science. We see the implementation of the wage plan, but the university teachers, colleagues, this plan ends in 2021, and nothing about the salaries of the university teachers in 2022 is talked about. Will they not increase their bills? Similarly, if we look at the analysis by the OECD of the school teachers' loads, we have high loads, but the wages are the third lowest. Preschool educators... Instead of smoothing the gap between general education and pre-school, it is only being increased. And why is that? Their minister was also unable to respond to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The model discussed by the government to fund teachers' salaries, based solely on the optimisation of the school network, is an absolute lack of competence. While working in the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission, Members had an opportunity to get acquainted with the plans of arrangement of the entire Latvian school network in every region. Much is in the process, but hoping that it alone will be able to compensate teachers' salaries is wrong and wrong. The new wage plan, funding must be on the side of the state budget. This is also indicated by the Latvian Education and Science Workers' Union, as well as by the Latvian Local Government Union. Is it really no longer necessary for small schools, for example, on the side of Kraslava - on the border of Belarus or in Leishmahl - in Zemgale. Go and tell those children where they can learn further. It is unlikely that you will find answers so quickly, but in the vast majority of Latvia the school network is already optimized. Where else in Jelgava or Ventspils you will find something to optimise? As far as seniors are concerned, we see the introduction of an unlimited minimum, unfortunately only from July. This is a step in the right direction, but we have to remind you that more than 100 thousand seniors will not be affected by this change and four percent inflation in their lives will be measured within 10 percentage points or more, apart from energy price increases and other cost increases at all. The pension supplement does not solve it by a few percentage points. Although we see attempts to address this, there is a need for long-term solutions that we do not see in this budget. The vulnerable seniors are already choosing what to pay for - bills or medicines - and we believe that this should not continue, and the situation is only getting worse. Also in healthcare, which has been identified as one priority in recent years, funding is still lagging behind what is needed. According to the World Health Organization, this is estimated to be 12 percent, as opposed to our 8 to 10 percent. To achieve this, an additional 300 million are needed in the health budget. In our villages, Lithuania, it is 30 percent more than for us, Estonia - even 50 percent more than for us. And the government knows these figures, but nothing is done for the sake of the thing. We need to take a step towards medical practitioners. We promised an increase in wages, and together we promised here in the Saeima, 10 percent, which turned into 4.4 percent in reality. And all this is already today, when the doctors seem to us, so to speak, are on the first lines when the crisis is precisely in the field of medicine. Why are we putting them in prayer today? As you may not notice, colleagues, the situation in hospitals, when new expenditure is incurred due to increased VAT on medical goods, increases in energy prices. Instead of supporting hospitals... They are waiting for the government to pay for what has already been done. The monthly situation is not improving. When looking at the budget, someone seems to live in illusions that hospital expenditure will not increase. Colleagues, this is a mistake! This must be taken into account and we must not allow it to be put on the citizens' shoulders. People in Jelgava, Daugavpils, Talsi or Valmiera must not experience the refusal of operations or other services for this reason alone. That is very important, colleagues! Families with children are in a completely affluent situation, especially at the lowest wages. By putting together forms of support, we see (by researching the policy as a whole) that people without children will gain more than people with one or two children. Is that smart? Is that right? Ladies and gentlemen of the UKP, this is your responsibility, and you must make this change so that there is indeed a situation that she should be, and not completely ambush, as is the case now. With regard to the increase in the municipal budget - yes, it is on average three percent. And here I would like to highlight, and to say one thing to the Government, especially the Minister for Finance, that a solution has been found to the problems of Latgale local authorities so as not to repeat the situation last year, when it was necessary to find solutions for providing resources for basic needs immediately after the budget, not to mention any new policy initiatives. However, it should be understood that municipalities will also be affected by inflation of four per cent and the increase in income of three per cent does not even cover the increase in inflation as opposed to the increase in revenue of the state budget, which is 10 per cent. For municipalities, this will be a particularly difficult year. First of all, expenditure increases, the need for teachers to pay salaries, energy and many other issues. And we also see a growing demand for benefits clearly. Public co-payment of housing allowance from 2023 has been late and has already shocked many municipal budgets. It should start more quickly, or think about another mechanism to help citizens to cover housing costs. Local governments alone will not be able to do so. The investment section may also be critical. It is clearly political, not based on a strategic vision that could help the country recover from the crisis. In its opinion, let us say so, the Board of Fiscal Discipline also expresses this through flowers. And here, too, about the development of entrepreneurship, the reindustrialisation mentioned by this Prime Minister. It is also good, but when we look at these nearly 700 million that the government has allocated, there has been nothing in the budget that would be in line with the European Commission's common position on the green exchange rate. This is not mentioned by the Prime Minister or the Minister for Finance. Only the Minister of Agriculture has planned a study on the green course, which is important, but in the case of the same farmers, which account for 22 percent of the total country's exports, which is the largest indicator in the European Union, and together with forests, they account for 47 percent of the total country's exports, then only almost EUR 33 million of the total EUR 1.82 billion from the renewal fund has been earmarked for the development of this area. Farmers will receive 15 percent less for development in the coming years. And in order to prevent this and to meet environmental climate objectives, agriculture needs 30 percent of national co-financing for the projects of the funds, as has been the case in the past, which together account for approximately 250 million euro investments, as is pointed out by all the farmers' organisations - the Farmers' Family, the LosP, the Young Farmers and others. This budget does not even provide a solution to this problem. Companies such as Dobeles Miller and many others that we appreciate not only here, in Latvia, but all over the world have developed such programmes. But if we look at what we see what we should do? What does the Union of Greens/Farmers encourage? These are a number of things we want to touch. First of all, health care, taxation, education, seniors and, of course, development. And the word must be kept in health care. Medicals must get the salary increase they have been promised - 10 percent. The basic hospital base must take account of all cost increases so that this does not happen at the expense of patients. It is also necessary to provide for money in order to reduce the number of rows. That's not what we're talking about at all! The health situation will become difficult to predict. Already today, many scheduled services are becoming acute and it is the part of people with lower incomes who suffer because they cannot afford paid medicine. The tax system for labour must also be changed. Reform of social contributions should be postponed until the end of 2023 at least. In this way, let us build up the mutual trust that we have now obviously lost. This must be done in this budget, without waiting for Christmas surprises. We will reduce the shadow economy and, on the contrary, we will be able to channel it towards other objectives by increasing budget revenue. With regard to education, it is necessary to provide for equalisation of salaries for pre-school and general education workers. And there must also be an increase for scientists. Also, the money intended for the new remuneration model must be budgeted immediately. This is over, but the new one needs money, it's not in this budget. Seniors. It is absolutely necessary to start indexing small pensions twice a year. We have to start already in April and we have to start doing this as before. It should be stipulated that the EUR 20 benefit is also paid to seniors who start vaccination, and we must not forget it. But we must not forget... and turn their backs to those seniors who are more than 100,000, who for various reasons have not yet been able to get vaccinated, but they will have to pay the bills. We must not forget this because it is not only them who are responsible for not receiving their vaccine. And that's what all of us, colleagues, I think, are aware of here. We already need to start reforming the second level of pensions in this budget. The time has come for change. Currently, Latvian pension money is invested in Latvia in the amount of 12,13 per cent. If we look at where Latvian pension money is being invested, for example, in Luxembourg, Ireland it is being invested three times more than in Latvia. Our seniors' money! It should gradually shift more pension capital money into Latvia, increasing it by at least four percent per year, which would give a significant boost to economic growth. At the moment, we are in a very bad situation with capital raising, which is reflected in the last report of the Bank of Latvia on lending. The situation is not good at the moment compared to other countries. Such an influx of investment credits would only encourage entrepreneurs to think about development, and we would see more and more bright companies in regions like Liepaja, Livani and elsewhere in Latvia. Similarly, development investment needs to be substantially re-examined - as it is in line with the objectives of economic growth. At the moment, this is the most important thing. Every euro that we invest on the national side must be aimed at development after the Covid-19 crisis. Of course, it is also about reforms. We spend a lot of time and energy in the family on such things...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U42	Mr Valaiņš, sorry, your debate is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U43	15 minutes, colleagues. I had 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U44	All right, all right, keep going.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U45	Thank you, thank you, Head of the sitting. So with regard to the reforms discussed in the Saeima so much, we see that they are just minus where the rational goal is not understandable. In the area of municipalities, only and only by redefining the boundaries, created confusion and inconvenience for people... Colleagues, in higher education, reforming the system to intervene in university autonomy and to place only in their own posts. Deteriorating situation in Latvian transit business. The solution proposed by the Government does not stop the 2000 people who have already been laid off on the Latvian Railway... and from a profitable field “Latvian Railway” has become a donor. Soon our ports will also be given a hand. The only solutions in the field of transport are related to the privatisation of state-owned and municipal enterprises... In today's style, it's happening in front of our eyes. Soon, with the arrival in history of a number of public transport companies, which were large employers in the regions for several decades, the pockets of some businessmen with hundreds of millions of euros will be added. The major repairs of the financial market, criticised even by government ministers, have seriously undermined our competitiveness. We are just watching large companies choose other countries here in the European Union as a place to pay taxes. Only the burden of financial institutions is mentioned as a reason. This is happening in front of our eyes, but we pretend not to see it. Then when we look at the state administration - discussions about another ministry, special, public fooling with the vaccination office - as if eliminated, as if not, but works. This only increases the disbelief of the government as a whole. People see it! And the new reform plan for the 42 percent wage increase for the Prime Minister and 33 percent for Ministers... Colleagues, have you earned it? Is there a reduction in just one ministry you promised for the elections? Has the application for exemption from property tax, signed by 58,000 people, reached even one deaf ear? Is the decision of the Saeima to abolish the OIC heard now - during the energy crisis? And most importantly, is the fact that the coverage of vaccination is satisfactory and the three billion spent in Covid-19 has led only to today's home sitting, you, the honourable coalition, give the smallest moral basis to submit a 42 percent increase in your wages? Today, we cannot vote in favour of a budget where doctors are scheduled to increase 4.4 percent, and the governing officials - 42. Colleagues! This budget - is it balanced? We have borrowed so much as never before, but we are spending it on meeting some political ambitions, not seeing any strategic goal that we want to achieve, something that is justified in this budget. This budget should have been a budget for health and growth, but that is not the case, so we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U46	Thank you. Please keep to the time of the debate. We shall continue the debate with the speakers put to the vote. The word in the debate for the Minister of Defence, Mr Pabrik. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U47	Thank you very much for the opportunity to address our honourable Members and the Saeima. And maybe I will continue in a slightly different sense about what the previous speaker ended with. This budget is a growth budget, despite the crisis, and this budget is the budget that also gives opportunities to Latvian entrepreneurs. Of course, we can put our arguments before you on the table, based solely on the funds available to each of our sectors, on what the new budget for this sector and on what we plan to do in our sector, in particular in the defence sector, also in the coming years. If I have to talk about the defence budget, I would like to say yes first: we are not planning our budget for one year or two years, but our planning is actually based on a 12-year plan, on the part of the Ministry of Finance - on a three-year plan. We also need to always look contextually at Latvia's security and defence, namely, what our allies NATO do, what our allies in the region, which is the Baltic Sea region, and what our immediate Baltic neighbours in Estonia and Lithuania do. From this point of view, I must say that regionally, in fact, all countries (both Finland and Sweden, which are not NATO countries, but the countries of the European Union, but at the same time we have good and growing cooperation on security issues too)... Here too, defence budgets continue to grow despite the crisis. In Estonia, the defence budget has increased by around EUR 100 million this year. This is more than an increase in the Latvian budget, but we also had an agreement with both Estonian and Lithuanian colleagues that it is important for us to maintain two indicators when thinking together about regional security in these geopolitical challenges. The first indicator is, of course, that we do not fall below the absolute minimum percentage, which is two per cent of gross domestic product. Secondly, in order for us to have an absolute increase in this budget, despite the crisis or other challenges of the community. It has succeeded, it seems, in all three Baltic countries, as well as for example Sweden, Finland, Poland. And in our case, of course, in percentage terms, as reported by Minister for Finance Jānis Reirs, it was easier to keep it, because there has previously been a fall in GDP, so it is not surprising, of course, that we have a little over two percent, but if we look at the perspective of the coming years, it seems that its percentage of defence budget is falling. But that would already be just one indicator. The second indicator is this absolute growth, and it is still planned for us next year, and I would also like to say that we have met with a positive, understanding attitude from the Ministry of Finance. And one of the reasons for this understanding attitude is that we are thinking not only about our soldiers in the defence sector, not just about our army, but we are trying to use these funds as rationally as possible so that we also have economic growth. And here I have to say that we have three main directions in which we intend to develop and to continue our development. The first is, of course, our own armed forces, where around 75 per cent of the defence budget goes out, but the two next priorities, which are very important, are the development of the Latvian industry, because we see that we need logistics, we need production on the ground, we need entrepreneurs, who are able to supply our army and our society here even on the spot, so that we do not just get money out of different purchases abroad. And the third is patriotic education, the protection of the comprehensive state, the support of societies, let us say so, in all matters relating to the defence sector and security. If we are talking about the second chapter, about this industry, which I think is particularly important in this year's turn and in the development of next year, I think we can be proud that the Ministry of Defence has become the second Ministry of Economics in the country, because during this year we have attracted one planned investment from Finland in the amount of about 63 million and for the first time in the history of Latvia, the restored Latvia, we are resuming car production in Latvia from zero to the end, and it will not be just car production, but it will be the production of armored vehicles. More than that. The first armoured cars should be taken two years later here on the land of Latvia. And we have brought together a number of entrepreneurs in Latvia who are ready to operate, want to do something with Finnish investments, and in the future, when these vehicles are going to be bought by other third countries, not just the Finnish Government, but not just us, we have already agreed with Finland that we are attracting our industry to promote this export. I would therefore like to call on all entrepreneurs who have ambition, ability and desire - do not hesitate, the defence industry is open to your offers! We can also examine the opportunities of grants, we can examine ways of moving forward together to strengthen our armed forces and also Latvian industry, Latvia's exports, create new jobs, because only in cooperation with our businessmen our country and also armed forces become stronger. We are also seriously involved in regional development, particularly after the reform of the municipalities. And a relatively large part of us go to various types of infrastructure projects, which are the construction of landfills and storage sites. Here we always use the local workforce, we create new jobs. There are no municipalities in Latvia where Latvian armed forces would be present and there would be no possibility for additional growth and additional cooperation. In this respect, I would also like to thank the Saeima for the decision that was taken a few years ago, for the consistency that the former defence ministers - both Raimonds Vejonis and Raimonds Bergmanis - have shown before me, because only by continuing the work we can say that our armed forces are now, I would like to say that, in the run-up to the battle, there are, in my opinion, the best in the Baltics. Talking about the readiness of the public and about the Saeima, this decision on the introduction of state defence training at schools in Latvia also means that the Ministry of Defence of Latvia is taking part in patriotic education more and more seriously here. And these infrastructures that are being built - both barracks and training sites - will be used not only for regional Earthguard teams, but also for the preparation of these young people, let us say so, for the lives of future adult people. I also have to say that here the biggest benefits will be for the Earthguard, because the major investments in the Adazi base, which is the largest base in Latvia, have come to an end, unless we include the fact that there is serious cooperation with the Latvian industry here, too, in the Adazi base, because we are the first country in the defence sector, which has supplied our military base with 5G systems and will allow us to use it here also for our entrepreneurs. So that I call for this budget to be supported. And I think that, together, we will also have economic growth and a safer country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U48	Thank you to the Minister for Defence for taking part in the debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U49	Dear President, I also ask for the time of the debate to be joined up.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U50	Your times are united. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U51	Thank you. High Prime Minister! The President of the sitting is very respectful. Dear colleagues, This is 13. The Saeima and this government's last budget. It is time to assess the success of the ruling coalition, leading our country in almost four years... or at least by trying to drive it. Today, the government is proposing a €12 billion draft budget for next year. The budget deficit is almost five per cent of gross domestic product, or about one and a half billion euros. Public debt will reach €17 billion. A few days ago, colleagues, the Estonian Parliament also adopted its draft national budget. Despite a much smaller population, Estonia's budget is more than a billion euros larger than Latvia's state budget. More than EUR 13 billion. And the deficit is only 2.6 per cent of gross domestic product. Half as small as in Latvia. Public debt: only EUR 6 billion. A few years ago, the Prime Minister told us that we were approaching the Nordic countries. I'm afraid not. At best, we are as far as the Nordic countries as we were three years ago. Why? One point. 13. During the Saeima, the gap from neighbouring countries has only increased if we count as a difference in gross domestic product per capita. The gap from Estonia in these years has not changed, but the gap from Lithuania 13. During the Saeima, almost 50 percent grew. Two points. Indeed, during this government there was as much money as it had never been. The debt in this government will increase by seven billion euros. Colleagues, I ask you to think: over four years, this government has borrowed more than the Estonian Government has borrowed over 30 years, during the existence of the new Republic of Estonia. Three points. This budget stands on morally dubious foundations. We are talking about the unjustified withdrawal of money from municipalities (we remember them five percent of personal income tax revenues). We are talking about a significant increase in the labour tax burden for more than 200 thousand Latvians. At its expense today, there is at least half of the government's so-called redistributable funding. The government even went so far that twice reduced the grants for the provision of holidays in primary schools. The government reduced the cost of unemployment benefits. This is how we are approaching the Nordic countries in these years?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Point four. Nothing represents government and 13. The Saeima is better off than its words and works in the field of education. The most striking example is in the field of higher education, namely higher education. As we remember, the government is committed to making at least one Latvian university in the world's top 500 ranking within four years. Why? Because Estonian University of Tartu three years ago was one of the world's Top 500. Today, it is absolutely clear to us all that, at the end of 13. For the powers of the Saeima, no Latvian university will either be the world's Top 500. And the University of Tartu has been no longer Top 500 for some time; it has been the world's Top 200. The words about the importance of education were very many - floods! - But the works... the works were different. The 2019 budget allocated €70 million to higher education. What has changed significantly to today? The next year's budget for higher education alone amounts to EUR 82 million. What did the government do for all these years? With a strange reform, the main result of which is the council of all universities - the councils that... pay millions of euros each year... and which will ultimately have to be financed by universities themselves, universities (at the expense of higher education, of course!) . What has progress been made with scientific funding? In 2019 it had €44 million. The last budget of this government is EUR 61 million alone. It is difficult to call it a significant improvement. It is estimated that the gap in investment in R & D compared to Estonia and Lithuania is about two-thirds. And this gap has not changed significantly over these four years. Dear colleagues, Throughout these four years, the total funding allocated by this government and this coalition to the Ministry of Education and Science has been only EUR 113 million. This is less than this government and the Saeima gave to the construction of Liepaja prison. It has EUR 147 million. Point five. Health care. Although huge money has been invested in the community and there is a record budget of EUR one and a half billion for the next year, there is still a shortage of 300 doctors and eight thousand nurses in the sector. More! The draft budget for the next three years makes it clear: the government does not plan to increase the number of doctors, the government does not plan to increase the number of nurses. As colleagues have already said, the increase in doctors' pay in this draft budget is 5.4 percent. The planned rise in remuneration for the Prime Minister and Speaker of the Saeima - more than 40 per cent; for Ministers - one third more. There's no need to comment, colleagues. Finally, the so-called green course. All these years, the Prime Minister has told us about green and smart reindustrialisation in his budget speeches. But so far we haven't started to produce and export solar batteries... or wind turbines. The Prime Minister has been silent all this time on the measures and costs of introducing the green course. And this is not a triple issue. The previous governments had also committed themselves to reducing their CO2 emissions by two million tonnes by 2030. However, the public administration does not have a clear answer until now on how to achieve this. CO2 emissions are mainly generated in three sectors: agriculture, energy and transport. Emission reduction opportunities in agriculture and energy are very limited because we do not produce electricity from coal. And in order to significantly reduce emissions from agriculture, livestock farming must be eliminated... Well, it's time to completely eliminate it. Transport remains where cars make up part of all their emissions. In order to reduce CO2 emissions by two million tonnes per year, it is necessary that one million drivers move on either rail, public transport, a wheel or their two legs. But in our country, even so many cars do not exist. Dear colleagues, Against this background, that we do not really know how to achieve a reduction of two million tonnes, this year the Head of Government made even greater commitments: to reduce CO2 emissions by almost eight million tonnes. Decide whether its commitments are even enforceable, but it is clear that failure will result in severe penalties being imposed by the European Commission. It is also clear that, even if we try to fulfil its obligations with a little salt, it means drastic measures - substantially higher taxes on fuel, second-hand cars and so on. Less than a year left until the elections, the government has silence today as a tomb... shall remain silent about the consequences of its commitments. Dear colleagues, So, what's 13. The inheritance of the Saeima and the Karina government for the next Saeima? The gap from neighbouring countries has increased significantly. Public debt has increased by €7 billion. In terms of allocated resources, educational and scientific stagnation continued during Karina's government. Although huge money has been invested in health care, there is an acute shortage of doctors and nurses in the country. The government has made potentially non-financial commitments within the framework of the Green Deal. A few years ago, during the budget debate, the Prime Minister said the following words (Remember!) : an ass cannot be pulled. As far as we remember, it was thought that the donkey was a Latvian society that could not drag too much of the rain, which is constantly increasing. But what did the government and coalition do for all these years, if not to make an ever greater victory on that donkey? Colleagues! Seeing this big picture makes it hard for me to imagine that the state’s senior officials can sleep quietly at night. Any person who takes care of the country of Latvia is constantly asking questions about how we can get out of this pit, what we need to do, what decisions we need to make so that we can no longer be among the first of the end. On the other hand, the state’s senior officials think about the purchase of a concert grande for 183 thousand euros. In a situation where there is an acute shortage of teachers, nurses, doctors, the government and officials are expected to make substantial pay. Obviously, our understanding of reality varies greatly. The Prime Minister told us in his speech about the stages of our country's history (at least in his own sense). I will also mention one stage that should have gone a long time in history. Over the thirty years, there have been niche lots, and this government also consists of niche lots. Each party is worried mainly about... perhaps even - only for the voters of their niches, against identifying them to another group of the population. No government party is thinking about the country as a whole, about all its citizens. And today we see the bankruptcy of this model, because the government is unable to cope with a serious crisis, cannot mobilise society as a whole. Colleagues! I hope that the errors were enough to draw clear conclusions from them. I hope with 14. The meeting of the Saeima will begin a new phase with the parties and with the government; that they will be based not on niche policy, but on a common mission, and that they truly unite all Latvians in the implementation of this mission, joint mission. The alternative, my fellow Members, is sad: by doing so, the day will come when the donkey will not wear any more. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U52	Dear colleagues, The next debate should be addressed to Member Ivars Zarins. Please, Member Ivar Zarin, apply again to the system so that we can give you the floor. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U53	Good afternoon, everybody! First of all, I would like to reflect on what has been heard in the debate. We all listen to the speeches of the authorities here. And these authorities in their speeches... Looks like little, invincible kittens, whose main thing is to get to the mother's bean, that is, to learn - in the way you want - the money in the national purse, that's their only concern. This can be done either by irresponsible minors, who, of course, think they are already doing powerful and responsible things... In fact, it is the current manifesto of this power failure, irresponsibility and incompetentness, for which the people of Latvia will have to pay for with thousands of lives, which will be lost due to the irresponsible behaviour of this power, because this power is unable to take appropriate and responsible decisions; it will have to pay hundreds of millions of euros of wasted money that this power will borrow in order to extinguish the fire itself. because of its irresponsible conduct, its absurd or at all inadequate... and on the grounds of decisions not taken. All of this will have to be repaid to all of us here in Latvia for a long time, after the irresponsibility of this power and manifesto of failure. Or if you don't believe that you are irresponsible underprivileged people who don't understand what they are doing, then it can only act by refined villains, who are convinced of their own, power, perseverance and hold in their hands this power structure, who will obediently and impeccably serve these constrictions of power, telling the public that any decision of this power, even illegal, has been made in the interests of Latvian society, as it was once the case, when deciding on the remuneration for the medical staff in the budget. And it was a significant turning point in the dismantling of our country's rule of law and democracy. It was the opening of Pandora's box, because after the whole state of power... and here I am thinking, above all, of the media and of the leaders of public opinion who have obediently and scrupulously opened up this power, deceiving the public and telling them that, in fact, the actions of this power have been responsible and justified... and thus prevented the deliverance of the wrath of the people, and of the Saeima. That was really significant... the point of dismantling our country's rule of law and democracy. If the Saeima had been fired, today we would have a completely different composition of the Saeima, a completely different coalition of power and a completely different responsibility of power... power, which would know that it will have to answer for the decisions made, rather than being given the opportunity to continue to manipulate its promises easily and, when the elections are approaching, to act after an integrated scheme - a beautiful promise, a purchase of favor and a draw of red lines to protect once again the future existence of this power cartel. Score... Today, we get a logical result, which I had already anticipated when we adopted the first budget, and I warned about what would happen if we allowed it to be done with the statutory medical promises. The result is that, today, doctors are resented. This power in its inability and incompetent, irresponsible decisions is responsible for everything and everything possible. Well, like the dancer, to whom everything bothered. Just - unlike this dancer - you don't even have the one that hindered him. Therefore, anything that does not allow you to swim like a dead fish in the stream causes a crisis and almost insurmountable difficulties, and this is why crises are being talked about here. In my opinion, the most important crisis that is raging our country is the failure and irresponsibility of this power. There's a lot of room here. Let's see! - It's this anecdotes. On one island, indigenous people collect coconuts. Tourists come to them and demand: “What do you eat from?” They say, “We eat from coconut.” Tourists look at those coconuts and say: “Yes, but they are so high! How do you collect them?” - “No, we don’t collect them, the wind blows off.” “Well, if the wind doesn’t blow?” “Now we have a crisis, then we have a crop year.” Karin's government works on the same basis. It can't do anything. At the same time, they were given this irresponsible mandate - this exclusivity - that they can do all sorts of things and will be forgiven and able to remain in power and continue to make irresponsible and incompetent decisions. And it continues, this power continues to implement it. In my opinion, in this draft budget, we very clearly see how this power is going to buy votes again. And tell you why the medical fees are not enough. Colleagues, it's really... Well, real laughter, just laughter as a doctor! So you can afford a budget deficit - over two billion! - But in these two billions you can't even find those extra 40 million that would be necessary even to the minimum that you agreed with the doctors. If we look at what this wage supplement is for ourselves by the ministers, this government, we see that the Prime Minister will have about 52 percent of the wage supplement for ministers (the sound defect.) ... interest. Medicals don't even have four percent. It's about how... which inflation will take off. In principle, they continue to be strangled. That is what would be very important for society to understand. If we, the Latvian society, really want to live in a democratic and legal state, then it is time for us, as a whole, to act democratically and legally. In other words, if you see that this power makes irresponsible decisions, then it is enough to believe in the narrative of the state of power that this can be the only possible power. The best of the worst that can be. In fact, the worst thing in democracy is when power cannot be replaced, and that is what has happened in Latvia. In Latvia, power levels do not work as a democratic state in nature. A democratic state is only effective if power is forced to account to the public for its decisions. If power can take any kind of decision, any kind of budget and the power will not have to answer for it, then you will get the result that you are now getting - this exclusivity, irresponsibility and incompetentness in everything. What you see (the coalition has simply illuminated it!) - irresponsibleness and lenientness are all in everything. An example was the story of OIC, where billions are paid. Billions have been paid... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Now there is a whole series of new stories - the same characters, the Green course implementers, equally irresponsible and incompetent offer Latvia to implement this. The result will be that we will pay very much for it. That is why, my fellow Members, personally, I will make the power to answer my promises, I will make proposals for the medical profession, because I think to keep going in this situation, and I will continue to be angry about the medical profession - that is, simply programming our country to further collapse. Currently, doctors - this is one of the most important - one of the most important! - aspects on which we need to take care of. And in this situation, the government says that we don't have enough money! We're ready to borrow two and a half billion, but for medical doctors, we're not going to have some million?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Well, I'm sorry. The other one that fascinates me in all this story is how this power intends to implement its smart industrialisation. In order for you to understand how large, empty musting it is, I will explain: in order to implement this industrialisation, people with the appropriate knowledge, appropriate competences are needed. And here we are talking more about these... conditional... technical sciences. Do you know how many students, students who have passed a physics exam and who are successful, with good marks, have left? ‘ Thanks to” this power – only 252, although enti thousand would be needed. You can tell all kinds of fairy tales you want - as you will immediately industrialise everything intelligently. You have all been very “smart” in the final dimb. And you will not be able to change it with your “capacity”. All you can do is to continue to drag Latvia into an ever-greater pit and to manage the money easily in the projects, telling you how much it was necessary for Latvia. Colleagues, I cannot support this budget. I will not vote for it. I will table my proposals for the second reading and I will debate them in a very detailed manner. And I hope that the government will come and say as detailed and justly why such proposals are not acceptable. I call for such a draft budget not to be supported at this, first reading, because it may also mean that we could send this frog at home... where they came from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U54	Name to the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U55	Dear President, Dear Members and honourable Members, In recent years, especially this year, the issue of security has become more topical than ever. We've felt on our skin... We have seen how closely the internal and external security of the country is linked. That is why, in this budget, it is particularly important to invest around EUR 20 million in the remuneration of those working in the home services - border guards, police, fire-fighters and rescue workers - who are expected to increase. The budget support to border guards through the provision of premium funding is important. These allowances will provide an incentive to attract and sustain human resources in the State Border Guard. Support for officials with special degrees of service - capacity building is also important. These are investigators and operational staff. The State Audit Office has indicated that it is necessary to align the investigator’s monthly salary district prosecutor with the monthly salary. This step is foreseen for 2022. Support for police and border guards is particularly important at a time when the challenges are both within the country - due to the crisis - and on the external borders of the country and the European Union. I would also like to highlight the planned funding for improvement of the State Police education system. Most of the crimes today are with the digital component - internet fraud, economic crime and so on. In 2022, we will set up an investigator training centre at the State Police College to improve the quality of pre-trial investigations, to better investigate crimes in the digital environment. However, we will not stop at this. Most of you have already heard of the concept of the Academy of Internal Security, which involves the creation of strong and modern educational programmes. I hope that the government will endorse this concept and that the first new programmes can be launched as early as 2023. In this budget, we have also taken two important steps in the transport of the home system. Firstly, the quality and rapid response of the tasks and functions defined by the State Police requires modern and tailor-made vehicles for police work. Secondly, in 2022 we will begin the reconstruction of the road base of the State Fire and Rescue Service. We are now in a situation where fire-fighters' tank-vehicles have been used for more than 20 years. Currently, in 2021, fire-fighters have 95 tank-vehicles with an operating life of more than 30 years and 100 special vehicles manufactured on the basis of the LID chassis. This means that they have been exploited since the Soviet times. These cases will change with the purchase of new fire-fighting vehicles, which is also foreseen in the budget. While investment in human capital is a priority in the 2022 budget, infrastructure projects are equally important. For more than two million euros we will improve police working conditions, equip the training ground of the State Fire and Rescue Service, as well as invest in technologies, special audio and video equipment, radio communications and information systems. These will be important investments to strengthen border control and to ensure more efficient traffic control and public order. We will not only continue to equip Latvia's external border with unforeseen costs, but also build eight fire-fighters' depots. There are some priorities for the home affairs sector that have not been supported, but we will try to find opportunities for re-allocation within the sector, even though they have to be implemented. I would particularly like to emphasise two. First of all, there is an urgent need to strengthen the capacity of the Public Security Agency, not only in the context of complex construction projects and procurements which the Agency must implement and whose effective implementation with current public wages is difficult to attract personnel. It should be remembered that, as a result of the changing types of crime and many of them taking place in the digital space, we need to ensure that the Agency has people who can effectively monitor, for example, the cryptocurrencies seized in criminal proceedings. We need to strengthen police capacity by forming a cyber-police unit. The capacity of the police to monitor on the Internet and carry out educational work in society needs to be strengthened. The Internet must not become an uncontrollable battlefield where anyone can make a threat, spread false news and remain unpunished. I am grateful to the staff of the Ministry of the Interior and all services who participated in the preparation of the request for a budget, to the Ministry of Finance and to all colleagues in the Cabinet of Ministers who supported our priorities. I very much look forward to your support for this budget, because it will significantly increase the capacity of the home affairs sector. And I hope that you will also support the home affairs sector in the future, because the work on the safety of our society will never end. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U56	Thank you to the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva, for taking part in the debate. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U57	Dear colleagues, The draft law “On the State Budget 2022”, the draft law “On the medium-term budgetary framework 2022, 2023 and 2024”, as well as the laws accompanying amendments, raise several questions and comments. I would like to express my views on budgetary priorities, challenges and risks. The Prime Minister describes the state budget as balanced and completely development oriented. However, it is difficult to understand where it is the head of government and ministers who see a balance between a planned substantial wage supplement for themselves and an increase in income for teachers, medical practitioners and social care workers. Let me explain. The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” provides for a significant increase of remuneration in the state administration. For example, the salary of the President of Latvia will increase from the current 5960 euros to 7600 euros per month. The same salary as the President will be paid by the Speaker of the Saeima and the Prime Minister, for whom this will mean an increase of salaries from 5000 to 7600 euros per month. The increase is also planned for ministers whose salary will rise from 5000 euros to 6700 euros per month. Parliamentary secretaries are expected to grow from EUR 3900 to less than EUR 6000 per month. I do not think that it is the right time to increase the remuneration of Members of the Saeima. Of course, all these wage increases, from the President to the Ministry and Local Government officials, apply to the 2023 budget. It does not seem to affect the following year. But that's what it's about! Now you must send out a clear message, a message to your own: “You will be all right! Whatever happens in the country, the need for solidarity does not apply, but you will get it, even though it will be a busy money, only remember us, the good on 1 October next year.” I would like to remind the budget authors that 200 doctors leave Latvia every year, we currently lack three and a half thousand nurses. But it seems that coalition now has other concerns: richly decorated its main pillar - all levels of civil service. The institution in our country is not professional but political. Party inserts have sat there for years, so it is so unable to make timely decisions. Government decisions in the context of Covid-19 are, for example, chaotic, difficult to understand and often unenforceable. What has the government, for example, done to address the pensioners - this most vulnerable part of the anti-virus society - by relaxing during the summer? I think advertising posters with exposed shoulders were not the most convincing argument. However, it seems that this group of supporters - the officials - is more necessary than medical doctors, teachers, social workers and pensioners. Under circumstances where people are so disappointed that they do not go to elections, officials will be disciplined and will vote on their own, on power parties. Under low-activity conditions, it will be crucial for the existing coalition to maintain its power. Another serious problem in the budget package is the draft law on "Amendments to the Competition Law". The aim of the draft law is to strengthen the capacity of the Competition Council as a decision-making body. However, increasing the administrative burden is being increased by increasing the administrative burden of an administrative apparatus. The draft law provides that in future the Board will be composed of the Chair of the Board and four members of the Board (now two members of the Board). The Competition Council needs additional funding: in 2022 - 168 490 euros, in 2023 - 221 668 euros and in 2024 - 230 471 euros. I think that such an approach would need to be linked to the overall reform of public administration by reducing the number of officials and a review of the functions of the bureaucratic apparatus. In turn, the draft law “Amendments to the Land Register Law” intends to increase the Registry fees for the activities carried out by district (city) courts in the matters of land books: the disclosure of a new division (currently to be paid EUR 28,46, planned fee - EUR 30); the disclosure of the property division of an apartment (currently EUR 14,23, planned amount - EUR 15); the strengthening of a new right for every person (currently EUR 14,23, planned fee - EUR 15); the replacement of a consolidation and recording of a mark (currently - EUR 7,11, planned fee - EUR 8); the issuance of a certificate of land books (currently EUR 7,11, planned amount - EUR 8); the issuance of a computer printout certified by a decision of a judge (currently EUR 4,27, planned fee - EUR 5). And so on. In general, the draft state budget looks something like this: we think we are with you, dear people, but money will be useful to us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U58	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U59	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Dear Members, As a person who has participated in the budget negotiations, I would like to comment on the 2022 budget and I will therefore start with those things that I think are most important. Undoubtedly, as has already been said, the country is currently in a health crisis. And that is why I am glad that more than EUR 130 million is earmarked for the health sector in the next year's budget. It should be noted that the Saeima had given the government the task of thinking about oncology, and therefore almost 50 million of this funding is earmarked for various oncology-related activities, such as pharmaceuticals, hardware and equipment. In this respect, too, it should be noted that the parliamentary group has shown quite a lot of activity in supporting patients with oncology, so that this budget line is exactly as large as possible. When it comes to economic development, because in general, this budget is regarded as a budget for economic growth, I have heard of the opposition's colleagues: "How?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Does that have anything to do with economic development in general?’ However, I have good news: more than EUR 48 million is intended specifically for the promotion of competitiveness (that is more in the Ministry of Economic Affairs) and more than 70 million for the improvement of productivity (that is also in the Ministry of Economics). Another thing that I would like to mention and which I am particularly pleased about is a support programme for the purchase of housing not only for large families but also for young professionals; also a subsidy programme which... It is also the planned funding of the Ministry of Economics in the restaurant... more than 50 million. One more thing. I think it must be recognised that we are in a hybrid war at the moment, so it is fully justified and understandable to raise the funding of protection in line with the commitments made by the country, both as... So... against Estonia and Lithuania in their immediate neighbourhood... of course, so it is also in the context of NATO... funding from the defence sector is well above the two-percent threshold. And this funding in this case is intended to be used not only to strengthen the capabilities of the battle, but also to strengthen local production, research linked to the defence industry. I think it's good at building synergies with the Ministry of Education and Science restaurant, where this time - in years! - science-based funding is rising by more than 30 percent; it is expected to be more than 10 million euros. I must also mention, of course, the fact that the Minister has insisted... And also in this... next year's budget includes funds to implement the timetable for the increase in teachers' salaries; perhaps it does not amount to a large amount, but it amounts to more than EUR 15 million. More. There's such an unprecedented thing - there's a direct support in the education centre for students. So... One thing is to raise this long-established scholarship by 40 percent - up to 140 euros per month - and the other thing I would like to emphasise in this context - from 1 January into force... the reform of the family allowance, which will enter into force on 1 January... This is also the issue of social grants... So many children's families, which already have students... with young people starting their studies, apply for a grant of EUR 160. I would remind you that the reform of the family state benefit will involve a significant increase in the family state benefit specifically for the children in real care (for the children in real care!) : for one child - EUR 25, for two children - EUR 100, for three children - EUR 225, for four children - EUR 400, and for each other - EUR 100. the family state allowance will be present. Such a reform, too, seemed incredible to many, but it was already agreed, in the context of this year's budget, that we were doing this from 1 January 2022. This is what is happening, and here, too, this issue of social scholarships is well dealt with. There is also such an unprecedented thing that funding for youth work will increase... to work with young people, let's say... more than 100 per cent. I have seen young people on social networks excited about this position, so I call on all Members who support young people to support the budget as well. On the Ministry of Welfare. Well, with regard to this restaurant, it has really been always - always says about the Ministry of Welfare: there's a hard job for the Minister. Well, in this case too, the minister... next year's budget, also in cooperation with the whole coalition... these salary increases are foreseen... First and foremost, those working in social care centres who will therefore pay... about EUR 10 million in the budget, but also, of course, through subsidies to municipalities to raise the salaries of social workers - some EUR 2 million too. So every worker in this sector should feel some increase in his or her wallet. When it comes to wage increases, it must also be stressed that in the case of justice... For the staff of the State Probation Service... it has been one of the less remunerated restaurants for a long time... wage increases are also planned. However, with regard to the budget for next year reached by the Ministry of Justice, I would like to emphasise in particular that the necessary funds will be allocated to the Commission for the calculation of losses incurred by Latvia under the USSR regime in order to conclude the work on the number of victims of the totalitarian Communist regime of the USSR... the identification of mass graves, the calculation of potential losses, information on repression, deportations and everything else. This one, too, may have slipped by someone, and the opposition is not talking about it at all, but I wanted to highlight this particular position in the budget. The ministers concerned are already... He didn't talk to the Minister for Culture yet, but... It is planned, as the Minister of the Interior has also emphasised, that the increase in wages is expected not only for those working in the home sector but also for those working in the culture sector; as the Prime Minister said, the increase in salaries is also expected for those working in the cultural sector. And here I come, how much pay can you talk about?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - to my favorite section of the next year's budget, to what was one of my... Also conservative in general... This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years in respect of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the 2000-2006 programming period. That was not really the expensive opposition. Now I have to say well that, from 1 January, there will be an unlimited minimum for pensioners - already up to EUR 350 - and then, from 1 July, up to EUR 500. And let's remember, it's a flat minimum, which is not differentiated. For those workers who are currently subject to a differentiated non-equitable minimum system, the non-equitable minimum will also rise: from 1 January up to 350 euros and then from 1 July up to 500 euros. Let me remind you: we already have a minimum wage of 500 euros. And what is the good thing in this year's budget? So... In the budget for 2021, we have already adopted a differentiation range for the differential non-equitable minimum of EUR 1800. This was also a step away from the side effects of the 2017 tax reform. At the time, the tax reform had to be financed by introducing an unlimited minimum differentiation. Well, right now, this upper range is €1,800. And I think it practically means that all this inextricable increase in the minimum... it will feel like it, or else... the recipients of high salaries, the recipients of relatively higher salaries, will less feel it, but it will somehow be felt by virtually the majority of the people working in Latvia, including the employees, police officers, as well as medical and teachers who I mentioned above. They are also subject to this unlimited increase in the minimum. And then you can count how much more money is left in the wallet. Talking about Latvia in general - the budget does not forget about regions either. The Minister of Finance has already touched upon the issue of a guarantee by the central government in respect of municipal revenue, which the local authorities had some concerns about raising the unlimited minimum. So this issue has actually been removed from the agenda at the moment. But in addition to the municipalities, these 100 million are earmarked in total, of which 70 million is an increase in the limit on this loan, which in general leads to a situation where almost 190 million euro is earmarked for local government loans. Another 30 million is the so-called live money - it is for the grants of local governments and the implementation of various high-quality projects. And in general, that's... There are 100 million investments in municipalities in addition to central government guarantees... it is precisely in relation to the income from personal income tax and, of course, the income from real estate tax. It must not be forgotten that always... For years, there have been problems with Latvian roads, but next year, to finance the reconstruction of roads and the construction of new roads around 280 kilometres long, a budget of 60 million euros has been foreseen. Consequently, the work currently undertaken by the Transport Minister in connection with road renewal will continue next year. It should be noticed if it has not yet been noticed, almost every citizen of Latvia. And all the things I mentioned above, whether you believe or not, are made without any increase in taxes. On the contrary! Over the years, this is the rare time that one tax has been reduced - that is, the VAT rate of five per cent will be applied to the printed press and to the books. I think this is a good signal for these industries. And all of this - with a rather polite budget deficit, which we have managed, despite the commodium... That is, the specialists in the Ministry of Finance have managed to align this budget so that it does not exceed, orienteously... 4.8 or 4.9 per cent. And, of course, that is without taking into account the forecast for potential GDP growth... could also get up, because, as you know, there's a lot of... Well, let's say, a little unemployment, so the unemployment rate is falling. And, of course, Latvia has also remained exportable. That's good news. Of course, there are problems with energy prices and so on, but... So, in general, I believe that the forecast of GDP... it should increase, and so the situation with this so-called deficit could improve in the near future. There are, of course, also budgetary issues to be discussed. For example, many have tried so little in the past... Whereas it is misleading to talk about raising officials' salaries. I would like to emphasise that the salaries of the Saeima Members are frozen; in any case, the salaries of the Members of this parliamentary term should not be raised and will not be raised. If we are talking about public officials in general and those working in the public sector, then I think that public administration should be as small as possible but adequately paid and any of these... the increase in wages, which is intended to... And I'll also try to follow it... must be within the existing budget, must be within the existing budget. There will, of course, be situations where it's definitely impossible, where simply mechanics... in the accounting... it's not possible, where there's no, for example, your income... Please combine the times of the debate!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U60	The times of your debate are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U61	Thank you. So there will be situations where, of course, it is impossible... Let us say that there is no revenue for an institution, and there are only these items of salary expenditure, which are, of course, practically adjusted to the exact amount of salaries. Of course, nothing can be done there. But in general... Why should this draft law be supported? It is essentially about making public administration more efficient. So, as I understand it, the boss will have the opportunity to choose to pay... a staff member who is doing his job well or who is indispensable for his good education or good skills to pay more within the existing budget... Maybe at the cost of shortening the States. I think it's not bad. This is essentially in line with the smaller public administration... an arrangement that Conservatives around the world have always stood up for. There are, of course, nuances that will be corrected for the second reading. They appear over time. For example, the President of Latvia has already announced that he will submit proposals for various acquisition cases, which apparently could not be used at all during the pandemic. So that's good news. Of course, there will also be proposals from Members, from both the opposition and the position. In previous years, when looking at the budget, I noticed that the so-called constructive opposition also voted in favour of the draft budget at first reading and then put forward proposals. I mean, that's, well, as a minimum... this opposition must also be done now, because I think no one can say that the budget is, say, bad... that it is a bad budget. I think that this is one of the best budgets that this government has ever met, and it has nothing to do with the fact that I have been more involved in this budget negotiations, but in general there have simply been things that have been agreed earlier, but are now being implemented. Even the same family state benefit reform. I think that no one can therefore oppose the quality of the budget as such. The contribution made by experts from the Ministry of Finance, balancing the budget, should also be assessed here, providing an opportunity for these many new political initiatives to be financed by keeping them within a certain budgetary framework. Of course, there will be a great deal of work ahead of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission in the Saeima. I think that the opposition will have tabled many proposals, but unfortunately also unconstructive ones. And I can now say that I will not be able to call on anyone to support non-constructive proposals, for example, from the series - "all" or, for example, "one hundred million simply from the funds for unforeseen events to be allocated to one or the other sector". I understand, of course, that the opposition must do its job, that the budget must be criticised, but I also call for a constructive job so that we have adopted the budget by... in an optimal way until the national holidays. I would also like to conclude with this short perspective on the 2022 budget. Ministers will, of course, come and talk about their sectors in much more detail, which I will also be happy to listen to. And we are also meeting in the second reading of the budget. Well, let us say, in this regard, of course, we will also meet at one of the next sittings of the Saeima, for example on Thursday, but it is precisely on the budgetary side that we will meet at second reading, looking at many - mostly opposition and not always constructive - proposals. Thank you for your attention, colleagues. Let's vote 'for'!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U62	To Far Linkai's question. Minister of Transport, will you have enough time for a three-minute debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U63	The President of the sitting is very respectful. I think I'm not gonna be able to fit in three minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U64	Yeah, I understand. Ladies and gentlemen, we have time to break. Registration of the presence of Members has taken place. On our way to 2.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U65	Dear Members, Honourable Members! We shall continue the examination of the agenda of the second remote extraordinary sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 25 October 2021 after a break. Agenda... Thus, there is a debate on the draft law on the state budget for 2022. And the word in the debate is for the Minister of Transport to Far Linkait. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U66	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Dear Members, After an in-depth statement by my colleague, Krišjānis Feldman, it is quite a challenge to mention other important features of the draft budget for next year. Given that this is already the fourth draft budget of the Kariņš Government, I would like to note the collegiate nature of the draft budget. This has been carried out in an inclusive manner and has enabled the needs and priorities of all sectors to be taken into account, of course, as part of available funding. In preparing this draft budget, the government has been working as a single team and, to a large extent, thanks to the Ministry of Finance for its work. If we are talking about the transport sector, then the transport sector has obtained an additional €73.7 million in public budgets for priority measures such as regional road construction - 57.7 million, public transport - 15.7 million, and also cycling. In the transport sector, each euro invested is visually visible, it contributes to the functioning of our economy as well as to the daily comforts of our citizens. The main lines of action and priorities of the Ministry of Transport will remain unchanged next year. So our aim is to create a secure, convenient and accessible transport system that provides for the mobility of citizens. We will have as a priority the alignment of national regional roads, which, through extensive road renewal, have already started in previous years. We have a plan to redesign regional roads in the next six years so that the whole road network is in good and excellent condition. Along with road renewal, the development of cycling infrastructure along public roads is also important. Therefore, I am glad that for the first time in Latvia's history, the state budget has a new priority – the construction of a bicycle route. Overall, road construction works are planned next year in a total length of approximately 870 kilometres, including the construction of regional roads - in a total length of about 560 kilometres throughout Latvia. Next year works will also be started in one important road construction project - Ķekava bypass construction, where for the first time a Ķekava bypass on Via Baltica track will be built in the form of a public-private partnership. Work is also planned to improve road safety, while planning and establishing national micro-mobility infrastructure will facilitate safer and more convenient travel of cyclists and pedestrians on a daily basis. We will also continue the modernisation of public transport next year. As early as this year, in part of Latvia, the carriers started to operate between cities with new and modern buses, including electric buses. This work will continue next year. Let us strengthen the railways as the backbone of public transport. The first new electric trains will start to run next year. Also “Latvian Railway” has launched a platform promotion project to make boarding more convenient and therefore more accessible to the public transport service. The project is implemented at 48 stops throughout the Latvian railway system. It is also planned to increase speed to 140 kilometres per hour for train movements from Riga to Krustpils and Jelgava, which will save driving time to the destination. Passenger transportation... The budget for the provision and development of public transport services amounts to more than EUR 200 million. As I said, regional transport across the country will be provided by modern buses. We have already started this year and will continue to provide free public transport on certain routes next year. The draft budget for next year includes the continuation of multi-child families and families cared for by disabled children and other categories of passengers with reduced fares. It is also planned to introduce a single public transport ticket system for regional passenger transport, which will be an additional convenience for passengers. The new system will make it possible to purchase a single ticket from the starting point of travel to the destination on regional routes. One of the most important investment projects in Latvia is the construction of Rail Baltica railway line. It has already started at the Riga Central Station and Riga Airport. Next year the implementation of the project will continue both at the mentioned construction sites and in the total length of the entire Latvian track will be carried out design works and regional stops will also be launched. In return, of course, there are many challenges that are linked to overcoming the crisis, but the budget for next year clearly makes it possible for the transport sector to provide convenient, safe and accessible transport system services. Request to support the proposed draft budget at first reading Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U67	Thank you, Minister. As the next speech in the debate, to the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Arthur Tom Plesh. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U68	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Dear Members, Honourable Members! Ministers! Colleagues! Strong municipalities are one of the most important drivers of regional development. And the capacity of the municipality can be measured in their ability to improve the quality of life of the population throughout its territory. The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, through the implementation of municipal reform, thus also creating a platform on which municipalities have been given the opportunity to join forces and build capacity, has given a clear signal that together we can more. We have placed the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development at the top priority of the budget for next year – to continue improving the quality of life of the population and ensuring the loan and investment programme of the state budget to municipalities. This will give the necessary impetus to work wisely in the region’s development. The beneficiaries are the population of the newly created municipalities, whose fronts have not missed the opportunity to create a breakthrough in the development of the country, and the Ministry's next year's budget will give municipalities equal opportunities to use state aid mechanisms for growth in the area. The municipalities also stress that this support is vital for promoting regional development, especially after the entry into force of the municipal reform, as well as for mitigating the effects of the Covid-19 crisis. These investments make it possible to realise important projects for citizens, create new jobs and help to preserve existing ones. This loan programme therefore provides for an additional funding of EUR 70 million for the following year. In turn, the municipal investment programme, with an additional budget of EUR 30 million, will allow the implementation of high-quality municipal projects and will provide public and local government services available to citizens. With the support of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, pre-school institutions will be built for the third year, thus reducing the line to kindergartens. And it should be noted here that this programme has already managed to reduce the total line to kindergartens by about 30 percent, which is a very important figure. Support will also be available to strengthen the capacity of Latgale Special Economic Zone in order to increase the size of the project and to continue the established good practice towards a faster reduction of regional inequality, which is particularly important in Latgale region. Although the suppression of the Covid-19 pandemic and the related economic consequences remain a top priority on the agenda, environmental issues have not lost their relevance and importance, therefore in the 2022 budget we have provided funding for strengthening the capacity of environmental protection institutions in the field of environmental control and policy, as well as for research and rehabilitation of historically contaminated sites, thus preventing the threat of pollution and promoting sustainable development in the regions. We have allocated almost €2.5 million to strengthening the capacity of the environment sector as a whole. And it should also be noted here that strategic directions that are important for the development of our country, such as the green course and the digital transformation, play an increasingly important role in our policies. And it is clear that these will still be horizontal issues that need to be considered within each restaurant. That is why I am very happy to hear these good examples of how we can make the country greener and more digital today from a number of colleagues - from the Ministry of Defence, also just from the Ministry of Transport - and that gives us great opportunities to develop our businesses and make our living space in general better. Here too, however, the fact that more than 100 days have already passed since the administrative territorial reform entered into force has also been mentioned. And now we can see the first benefits of implementing the reform. For example, municipalities have reviewed a number of services and we see that they have been able to level up the differences between the different regions in the past. In Ludza municipality the municipality has created an opportunity to fully cover the catering fee for all residents, the child birth allowance has been adjusted and increased throughout Kuldīga municipality. The same applies to the benefit to foster families in Talsi County. These benefits are most felt by citizens from smaller municipalities, districts and parishes, who are now part of the largest and most powerful administrative unit. Also, as a result of the reform, the planned savings in the budget of Ogres municipality for the remuneration of local government officials amount to approximately 30 thousand euros per month, while in Valmiera municipality as a whole they amount to almost 200 thousand euros. These are significant financial resources directed towards improving the quality of services, developing infrastructure and implementing important initiatives for citizens. Similar trends are observed elsewhere, and work on achieving the objectives of the reform is taking place both in local governments and, of course, in the Ministry. And to ensure this upward development course is our joint responsibility, therefore the support mechanisms proposed by the Ministry in the next year's budget are aimed at promoting balanced regional development throughout the territory of Latvia. This dedicated funding in the form of investments and loans, which will amount to more than €100 million, will enable local authorities to meet the objectives set out in the reform and to implement projects of importance to citizens. And this is about putting in place the road network mentioned above, improving the energy efficiency of buildings, building different educational institutions, as well as access to services and improving the living space of the population in general. The support already provided by the Ministry has resulted in a number of successful projects implemented in various local governments of Latvia, and these proposed support mechanisms have created favourable soil not only for the region, but also for the region's growth. That is why I would also like to join in the words of those colleagues who have expressed their gratitude for this budgetary process. Thank you to the Ministry of Finance, thank you to colleagues with whom we were able to find a solution to very balanced and development-oriented budgeting. It is clear that without strong regions it is impossible to fully and balanced development of Latvia, therefore I invite Members to support this draft budget proposed by the Cabinet for next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U69	Thank you, Minister. We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U70	Thank you. Colleagues! All Latvian citizens pay taxes, but only coalition parties make up the state budget or part of the expenditure. And, of course, next year and in the 2022-2024 budget package, the priorities and initiatives that are relevant to the political elite in power are being funded primarily. A very interesting graduation by stage was proposed in the first section of the budget debate. In particular, the first stage was the democratisation of public administration. And yes, certainly Latvia achieved very excellent results in the question of democratisation of the public administration – the number of employees per capita in the public administration in Latvia is one of the highest Member States of the European Union. Of course, thanks to the democratisation of the state administration established in the first stage of development of Latvia, we were also very successful in arresting and sentencing the national bourgeois or so-called oligarchs created in the second stage of development of the country, because, as the result of the privatisation of the second stage of development of Latvia, we developed such not very successful oligarchs, which certainly succeeded, so to say, neutralize. And the existing political elite sees it as an achievement. At the same time, the highest officials of Latvia are not considered to be a reprehensible act to meet and build good relations with foreign oligarchs, which can definitely be called the right oligarchs. And the meetings with them are to be supported. For example, during the renovation, the state seniors meet with the Valenberg family. Details - Valenberg family owns about 80 per cent of the capital of the large companies in Sweden, and in Latvia it owns SEB bank. It is also about politically eligible investments. You can mention the publicly known close friendship of Ripplewood Head Collins with the former State Strategy Secretary and the links of the owners of the existing Luminor shareholder Blackstone with the Republican Politic Club. It is therefore necessary to disclose... in this respect. an essential question. Did the terms of the transactions, including the unwritten terms of transactions, really benefit the Latvian side? And, most likely, during these transactions, possible adjustments to financial market supervision, regulations, and market players have been discussed to create a particularly favourable climate for investors. Very cynically, you can afford to ask whether investors, using and acting in manipulating geopolitical developments and their presence, used it to obtain the most advantageous terms for entering into a transaction? I am not talking about the proudly distributed picture of the brothers' bananas on social networks, participating in the opening of the Lidl store. It is clear, however, that as a result, a number of small Latvian shops will fail. By joining the club of rich countries and reintegrating the economy into the Western market, Latvia lost 200-300 thousand people. And this is the consequence of the absence of national policy safeguards for the internal market. Despite the economic growth that we call figures, the number of people at risk of poverty in Latvia is still one of the highest among the Member States of the European Union. And according to purchasing power parity standards there are only Croatia and Bulgaria behind Latvia. And these are achievements for economic growth? The question of whether EU and international organisations' policies or at least recommendations are truly beneficial and meaningful to Latvia's national interests is also very important. There are very few cases when Latvia has really been able to defend its national interests, including those of particular economic sectors and society. It is much easier and more convenient to operate with the concept in the local decision-making process - but this is what the European Union, international organisations or standards require. If Latvia is a member of these organizations and their officials or ministers participate in their policy-making, then on their own basis they must defend Latvia's national interests, but the officials have a desire to be good and obedient to foreign institutions and organisations. This is a weakness of the state and a clinical lack of state consciousness. Repair of the capital financial system is an example of a total failure of the state, which is unable to deal with the problems of the national economy without external pressure. But nothing. Despite the bureaucratic, administrative over-exploitation and over-regulation of the business environment, the country's economy continues to progress towards its ambitious goals of becoming a state of intelligent reindustrialisation. But Lithuania has already become FinTech's technology and Estonia - the leaders of startup companies in the Baltic States and not only in the Baltic States, but Latvia's ratings on technology development at the implementation level are not increasing yet. It is understandable that in order to remain in power, the political elite continues the generous model of funding political parties. In order not to lose support from posted officials, of course, it is also necessary to raise the remuneration of the loyal elite - those working in the public administration. I am not talking here about the necessary funding for health and education, because they are still not financed according to demand and the needs of society. And nothing that the Covid crisis highlighted total non-professionality in the public administration, the absence of horizontal interresor cooperation, failure of communication, despite millions of valuable injections into PR agencies and specialists. Unfortunately, there is no clear horizontal link in the budget package between the programmes implemented by the ministries and the real benefits for the pensioner, student, student, patient and family. There is no correlation between the recent calculation of the differentiated living wage and the praiseful talk about raising the inequitable minimum. Colleagues! The minimum subsistence for a pensioner in the countryside is estimated at EUR 360. Seriously, do you consider it an achievement from next year to raise the untaxed minimum for pensioners to EUR 350? The minimum subsistence for the adult population in Riga is set at 423.27 euros, but for the family with two adults and two children – 1216.97 euros. Why these calculations were not taken into account in the budget of this year and next... package? Because this calculation of the subsistence minimum is a condition including the... and derived from the judgments of the Constitutional Court in order to ensure implementation of a worthy living minimum for the poorest layer of Latvia. Almost a third of the fiscal space... next year, the thresholds for the differential non-eligible minimum and the change in the non-eligible minimum for pensioners will be spent, but this in no way addresses the problem of inequality, as the first increases the inequalities between households with and without dependants, while the second slightly reduces the inequalities between pensioners and the rest of society, but increases them within the social group. What is under-served, in turn, is the availability of a healthcare system. This contributes to the most cruel form of inequality, because if you have money, you can get treated if you don't have money, you stay away from healthcare. And Latvia is a recordman in this regard. We know that in Latvia the health care system was neglected for 15 years. The state of health of the population, according to the World Health Organisation, is one of the worst, but we still cannot provide medicine with the necessary funding it requires. We believe that education is the basis for growth and competitiveness in the country, but we still do not believe that pre-school educators who lay the foundations of education also deserve a competitive wage. Not only do loyal officials working in public administration or politicians. Yes, there are also good things in the budget, but priorities in the budget are once again placed on an increase in the remuneration of the loyal civil service, on the relevant research of the ministries and on the implementation of various PR projects. Is it really that spending millions of dollars each year on national research in the Ministry of Economics can be more important than investing, for example, in subsidising the same foreign film? And would it not be more appropriate to use these funds to raise the same potential financial practice for school students than to study the image of contact from real life? How can you not see that accordingly... If the Ministry of Economics adds the Latvian Institute together with the State, and if the instructions of the Institute state state are written that they are obliged to take care of the image of the State... Reduction abroad... spend more money... research funding is a waste of budgetary and public money. And there are enough such projects, hidden in the big table, in every ministry. It is understandable that research is needed, but research needs to be reasonable and geared towards the interests of citizens. I have not yet seen any research into the budget package that would really improve the quality of life for citizens and provide them with a more competitive and also higher remuneration compared to their neighbours. Meanwhile, our inhabitants, who live in Valka, continue to declare, give birth and register as Estonians, receiving benefits and medical services there. In fact, it is difficult to assess things when actions are presented as achievements or as positive results, which are actually destroying national capital, and which also make the quality of the relevant business environment more accessible or more difficult to implement directly for Latvian companies and small capital of Latvia. Consequently, when overall assessing the budget package, despite the positive trends, there are also negative things and they are hidden simply in political advertising in the run-up to financial resources. Unfortunately, therefore, I will not be able to support this budget package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U71	Thank you. The floor in the debate is for Ms Inga Goldberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U72	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions are directed according to the urgency procedure in the budget package. The Commission of State Administration and Local Government is a co-responsible commission, therefore today more about this draft law, but expressing its personal opinion. Colleagues, I would remind you that by announcing the budget law of 2021 at the end of last year, the President of Latvia addressed a letter to the Speaker of the Saeima and the Prime Minister highlighting a number of issues related to the procedure for approving the budget package. We were introduced by letter, all our colleagues. I have also read with interest this year's constructive call and today I can say with confidence that none of the letter from the President of Latvia has been consistently taken into account. For example, according to this draft law, the introduction of the envisaged remuneration system in state and municipal institutions will take place within the existing budget, without additional funding being linked, and only from 2025, when the institutions have carried out a review of their functions and positions, will be able to decide on the optimum wage budget size and identify the institutions that will need additional funding. Consequently, no criterion can be met as to why this draft law should be moved as a matter of urgency in the budget package. The Ministry of Finance, referring to it in its opinion, and the State Audit Office in its letter addressed to the committee responsible by the Saeima, are about urgency. The most interesting answer that had to be heard from the draft law leaders is: “Nevertheless we will get it through.” The only question is who and who should get through? Maybe you're afraid that there's no public support, that there's no coordination between the responsible authorities, that I don't know. The law to be amended today... first reading... adopted in 2009 also as a matter of urgency. It has been amended 33 times, of which 23 times in urgency, in two readings. And there are three judgments of the Constitutional Court regarding this law. It increases the salary of a group of officials every time this law is amended. Now to someone who has a stronger lobby, or to an official or industry that has been agreed politically, without weighing, discussing and thus deepening inequalities, injustice among the staff of the institutions and increasing public distrust. In order to avoid chaos, at the initiative of the Commission of the State Administration and Municipality, the Saeima in 2016 instructed the Cabinet to draft a new law by 2017. It was only at the beginning of 2020 that the State Chancellery was able to inform about the future remuneration law. The draft law was drafted and announced at the meeting of State Secretaries on 30 January 2020, but it never came to the agenda of the Cabinet of Ministers. I tried to understand what has changed in the meantime and what are the differences between the new law being drafted and these proposed amendments. And I found it. For example, in the new law, presented at the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government in 2020, the salary ratio for senior officials was already significantly increased, and it was provided for 6.5, and in these amendments - already 7. By changing the coefficient by only 0.5, the salary for senior officials increases by more than €600. I would also like to inform you, colleagues, about the concerns of the Latvian Municipal Union and the reservations of the State Audit Office. Both letters were addressed not only to the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government, but also to the Commission for Budget and Finance (tax). However, with careful attention to the discussions in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, no mention was made of them. Needless to say, neither the Union of Municipalities nor the State Audit Office was given a word. The Municipal Union, though conceptually supported the draft law, as it fears that the municipal section will not be viewed at all. However, I note that although it is stated in the explanatory memorandum of the draft law that, when determining the monthly salary, including the monthly salary coefficients, account is taken of the balance between the branches of power and the principle of hierarchy, when learning about the standards of the draft law relating to the remuneration of senior municipal officials, it is clear that the above is not ensured. The Union of Municipalities also draws attention to the fact that it has not been assessed whether all municipalities will be able to ensure minimum monthly salary rates to the extent specified in the draft law. In turn, the State Audit Office notes that proper procedure and compliance with the principle of good law enforcement were not ensured in the examination of the draft law at the Cabinet of Ministers. Also, noting certain things. For example, replacing the words “and assessment of competences” across the law with the words “level of competence and performance”, however, the issue of supporting remuneration policies for employees in public administration in performance is not addressed. Likewise, the right of senior officials to combine positions in capital companies or other public person institutions is not addressed, and other issues are not addressed. It is clear from all this that the draft law is of poor quality, is being directed in the wrong order and at a completely inadequate time, thus showing disrespect for society as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U73	Thank you. The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U74	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, The viewers! I would like to highlight a couple of things about this budget and also ask a couple of questions that have arisen to me as a member of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) when I look at this proposed budget. Let's start with a positive one. First of all, I consider this budget as a whole to be very positive. In my opinion, the government has done a good job to include many really important priorities in this budget. First of all, I would like to outline one of the scenes that we were left behind, so to speak, from the former government. When we start working in this government, in this Saeima - the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission - we compared... and looked at tax rates, precisely labour tax rates, in the Baltic States. That negative legacy that we had left is... In principle, we in Latvia were the most uncompetitive among all Baltic countries in the area of labour taxation. And this applies to all levels of pay. Both at lower wages and at high wage levels - throughout the range. What has this Saeima and this government done? There is a significant improvement in tax competitiveness, in fact a substantial reduction in labour taxation, and it is not really possible to assess the implementation of a large number of '3 × 500' - this impossible plan - which is being implemented and made possible. So EUR 500 is an indispensable minimum for workers, as well as, of course, EUR 500 for pensioners from 1 July. Here we have to recommend the work of the Ministry of Welfare in this field. Similarly, the minimum wage, of course, is EUR 500. It should also be mentioned that the one percentage point reduction in social tax has already been adopted in the budget last year for all workers working in principle under the common tax regime. And the increase in the upper differential non-delimitable minimum, the increase in the range, to €1800, which also significantly improved the situation. As a result, from a situation in which, for example, Baltic and international companies, which operated in all three Baltic States, choose where to employ their management in the Baltic States... of course, in 2018 (likely to have been heard) chose Lithuania or Estonia, because the tax burden that had to be paid in Latvia was much higher. At the moment, however, we have already achieved, in principle, in most cases... and adjusted this tax rate, thus attracting a skilled workforce and also a management level workforce in Latvia is much more attractive than it has been. These tax reduction initiatives are quite unique, because speaking to other countries... to international experts on tax reductions - at least in my experience - they did not believe that something was possible, saying that governments did not, for the most part, reduce the tax burden. This time I would like to say that it has been fantastic, in fact the tax burden has been reduced and it is quite unique, and it should contribute significantly to Latvia's economic growth in the long term. If I stress other important things, I would like to say that it was very important to raise salaries for doctors, teachers and also staff in the home sector. Good work has been done here. Thus, both the health sector has been allocated close to EUR 130 million, and education (a further increase in teachers' salaries, which is very good), as well as the home sector. And also for the health sector, the relatively high level of funding to support oncology - precisely that of the Saeima - is a very important incentive for the development of the sector. In the following words, of course, the 10 million basic scientific budget, or the basic budget, is also a good initiative. This too is something that has been delayed for a long time and has succeeded so much joy in it. Of course, family state benefit is also a great thing that has been solved with this budget as a whole. An additional 100 million municipalities have also been mentioned. Contrary to the view that there is a reduction in the funding of municipalities, it is in fact increasing, and the government and the Saeima are also compensating for this funding. The Ministry of Transport has also stressed that there are 60 million more roads. Roads are something that most of us certainly use every day, but very often so, of course, that is very useful. Overall, budget income, despite this tax reduction, tax burden reduction, is quite stable, and according to various data of the Bank of Latvia and others, tax revenue will only continue to rise despite the reduction of the tax burden. It could therefore be said that this fear of tax reduction, also with the 3 × 500 plan, that the state budget will receive much less money... This is not quite true, because it is the money that goes back to the state budget in other ways, and it is a great joy. In terms of tax liability, too... it is increasing, but people are actually getting more money in their wallet, so that it is the most important thing. On the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, as well as all the sectoral budgets, I have to say that there were mostly good initiatives and good things, but I would like to emphasise... and ask a couple of questions, I also want to take the opportunity that the members of the Cabinet of Ministers listen to us - maybe this one will catch up somewhere. I want to mark a couple of things. So the most question I actually raised was... atypically, but the Ministry of Economics budget. And that's what it's about... political priorities and decisiveness. What exactly do I want to mention? So one thing that... Two big things that hardly appear anywhere, and when the Ministry of Economics also asked the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, there was no real answer as to how it looked at or how it was dealt with. Unemployment in Latvia. If you're looking... have studied and followed the data of the Bank of Latvia, then you may have heard that unemployment in Latvia has reached in principle the level that the Bank of Latvia calls for Latvia – “under the level of natural unemployment”... So the level of people who change work is the long-term unemployed, let us say that those who either do not want to work or there are other difficult situations, why this is the case, but that is the free resource of the workforce that we can build up our economy and develop our business, so that more taxes are also levied on the country and also on the promotion of people's wealth - this resource of labour is practically no longer available. At the same time... I read the report of the analysis service of the Ministry of Economics in 2021, where the Ministry of Economics itself says that there are obvious problems, especially with the adequacy of qualified labour in the country, especially in those sectors that have not suffered as much from the community as the IT sector, the financial sector, or perhaps other sectors where qualified labour is needed. These companies, these companies and the industries are growing, but we simply do not have a physical place to take these workers from. Yes, there are good initiatives for retraining, upskilling and so on... Both the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Welfare, but it will not be enough. If you look at these start-ups, start-ups that have attracted hundreds of millions of investments and are planning to invest most of their investments directly in human capital, so earning the workforce, earning people who could build them further, then there is simply no longer where to come from. If we do not solve this problem, then it will happen in the way that it has already begun - these workers will be recruited in Estonia or elsewhere and the tax will be paid there. So I'm asking you to think about it. The Prime Minister also calls for smart reindustrialisation here all the time, and there, if I understand correctly what the Prime Minister thinks, the fourth industrial revolution also plays an important role in automation, robotisation and productivity building. The workforce, which will teach them how to handle these new technologies, is necessary and needs to be sought. The second big thing that does not really appear in the Ministry of Economics budget (I did not see at least, and I did not hear any answers to questions), is energy. We have an energy crisis: there are both electricity and gas prices in the air. The Russians have obviously taken advantage of the possibility that the Nord Stream 2 project has been completed and that gas prices are now in space. Winter is coming, colleagues. Of course, we can give some benefits, aid and so on, but this is not a long-term solution. The Ministry of Economics, as a Ministry of Development, should address these issues. I would like to point out that the new conservative party has long called for it to come out of this Russian needle - Russian gas, of these 90 percent we buy, and to build a liquefied gas terminal in Skulte, as well as to build wind parks. This same project, mentioned by the Prime Minister, has been a wind park at sea on the Latvian-Estonian border for several years. While working in the Baltic Assembly, speaking with colleagues from Estonia, we have looked at this project and sent it to the government for consideration for a long time. Latvia has every opportunity to be energy independent, to maximise its energy and produce it itself. All these development funds, including the Recovery and Stability Mechanism, are... Let's say, it was where it could be used perfectly. And there's no answer here why it's not done. Yes, it is said that it will ever happen, but today, by asking the Ministry of Economics whether the state budget or the Latvenergo budget, or some other European funding, for example, provides money for this wind park, the answer is - no. So we should think about this. Perhaps there is sometimes a serious crisis in order to become visible and invest in development and in the long term. And I call you to think about this. And the third big one, of course, is this potential for start-ups. Yes, the Ministry of Economics has placed 30 million in productivity, 70 for competitiveness, which is good, but it is virtually no money for the development of a community of start-ups. We can see how the "Printify" grows... a recent case. A company that has reached 300 million in six years from zero. In six years! Latvian company, where most of the capital still belongs to Latvians. In six years this company has grown as large as “Latvian Railways” – the value of “Latvian Railways”. Let's think, colleagues! Perhaps, however, let us invest where we have the potential, where we have great potential for growth. Let's put it in there, and the result will be in the long term, and it will be our capital, it will be Latvian companies raised in Latvia, and the return on this capital will, hopefully, remain mostly for the Latvian state. So this is double-important, and I call for attention to be paid to this. The last thing I want to mention is the issue of civil service. My personal view is that the office should be small, effective and well-paid. Having also questioned the State Chancellery: over the last few years, we have succeeded in cutting public office by seven percent, which is good, but I understand that no new targets have been set. Balancing this... If salaries are raised for the civil service, the number of officials should also be reduced at the same time. More pay, plus technology, but a lesser number. I can no longer see such initiatives. In particular, we should think about how to reduce the number of people working in the municipal sector... There we have... If we are still comparable in the public sector to other countries, then the proportion of employees in municipalities is huge in relation to the total number of employees in Latvia. Here, the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development pointed out, for example, that the number of members in municipalities is reduced, creating larger municipalities, and so on... which is very good. It is certainly a matter of thinking that the office should be reduced in number. Of course, it must be well-paid so that people are able there. But it must be done at the same time in a proportionate and gradual manner. Overall, the budget is a good one. Of course, there are these things that I should think about and would like to put more emphasis on, but in general there are very many good initiatives that will make life easier, improve life for a large part of Latvian society, especially in the field of tax reduction. So thank you very much and I call for your support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U75	Thank you. The floor in the debate for Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U76	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, Is this budget about combating poverty and reducing inequalities? Of course not. What will change next year for the most at risk of poverty groups, such as persons with disabilities? The amount of their allowance will remain at the same level as that increased last year. The increase next year will be driven by inflation, rising electricity, gas and heating bills, as well as food prices. As a result, living standards fall. What will change for pensioners whose pension is below EUR 350? They will have to make a choice between paying bills and purchasing food. The coalition, in a large consensus, rejected my proposal for a lump sum allowance of EUR 500 for pensioners and persons with disabilities, which is also not included in the budget. Instead, with 20 euros, trying to cover your skin with a fig leaf, trying to buy back at least from vaccinated pensioners. Unvaccinated seniors may have to wait for Christmas in cold and dark. With €20, the government has also tried to break down the older population. And, of course, there will be work for the Constitutional Court. The budget provides for funding for the celebrations of the Constitutional Jubilee, public understanding of the Constitution will be increased by 155 thousand euros. Only the rights of the Constitution no longer exist. Pensioners... No retirement allowances will be renewed until 1996 for pensions awarded from 2012. Pensioners are not a priority next year. Nor are the indexations planned to be revised to reflect the reality. The just calculated subsistence cart shows that one pensioner's household needs 362 euros for survival in the countryside, family with one child - 800 euros. It is for survival, not for a respectful life, without taking into account this rapid rise in prices, as is currently the case. A non-negotiable minimum of EUR 500. All right, but it does not make it easier for families with children who are already unable to take advantage of their benefits. Are these family concerns? Is this a demographic concern? It does not give any contribution to almost half of the pensioners whose pension is below the applicable minimum. The salary supplement promised to medical staff remains unfulfilled, 45 million were lacking, but the Presidential Chancellery will strengthen its capacity to promote staff productivity and staff retention by ensuring a competitive, job responsibility, complexity, publicity and remuneration appropriate to the performance of the work. There is obviously no need to keep medical staff, nor is it necessary to promote productivity. Human mortality is increasing. There is a rapid increase in mortality due to circulatory diseases. From year to year, we are losing more and more people because they cannot get medical services on time, paid medicine cannot afford, but nothing is done to improve the timely availability of medical services. The State does not take loans to reduce mortality from malignant tumors. The Presidential Chancellery will improve the castle garden, see the acquisition of a grand piano, and will organise a summit of the Three Seas Initiative for half a million, but those working in social care centres will not receive any wage increases in accordance with the Ministry of Welfare Action Plan, which was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. Instead of 400 million, only a quarter of the necessary salary increases are offered, but generous wage increases are prepared for officials, president, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, parliamentary secretaries, Members. And at a time when already today some of the employees are suspended from work. They do not know how to feed their families, how to pay their bills, although the Constitution states: human rights are exercised without discrimination, everyone has the right to freedom and integrity. Paragraph 23 of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that everyone has the right to work and protection in the event of unemployment. From today, people in Latvia no longer have the right to work because they are suspended from work, preventing them from receiving any financial assistance, and this budget does not mean it. Consequently, I cannot support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U77	Thank you. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U78	I ask you to unite the times.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U79	Both times of the debate are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U80	Thank you. Good afternoon, Prime Minister. Members of government! ( I hope that ladies and gentlemen continue to listen to us.) Dear members of the Bureau. Head of sitting! Dear colleagues, The first reading of the draft budget is the rare moment on the Saeima's agenda, when you can talk about strategic development goals and objectives of Latvia's economy. It is, in fact, an economic debate, as we are having a foreign policy debate at the end of January. However, there are also unwritten laws in the budget debate which need to be followed, so at the beginning of the budget criticism. The next year's budget has already caused a wave of opposition and disappointment. That is what we have heard today. Although ministers and their supporters say that in 2022 the priority of the state budget is the increase in remuneration in the public sector, the Latvian Health and Social Care Workers' Union, as well as the Latvian Medical Association emphasizes that the government, when drafting the budget, has not fulfilled the promise given to medical professionals for an annual salary increase of 10 per cent and that in order to achieve this, there is a lack of 45 million euros. The crisis in medicine associated with the Covid-19 pandemic shows a lack of doctors. A disproportionately high amount of healthcare funding is earmarked for investment in infrastructure and not in people. The Free Trade Union of Latvia points out that there are significant weaknesses in the budget - insufficient funding for medical salaries, as well as teachers' pay, have already been mentioned. While a positive assessment has been made of the increase in the non-negotiable minimum, in the opinion of the trade unions, the minimum wage should also be increased to €540 from mid next year. The Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry is concerned that the government's promise to reduce the tax burden on labour has not been fulfilled. Although increasing the non-negotiable minimum is a step in the right direction, this is not enough. There is insufficient State aid for municipalities in difficulty. This is what my colleague, Mrs Goldberg, has already spoken about today. I would also like to continue on that. Expenditure co-financed by the State has been increased to finance guaranteed minimum income, but the municipalities are concerned about what will happen in 2022 when there is no such agreement. The state will provide additional funding to municipalities that are facing the biggest budget shortfalls due to the increase in the unlimited minimum, but the threat to municipalities is from the increasing expenditure that will not be covered by the budget increase - the increase in salaries of pre-school teachers and sports teachers, which will require about seven and a half million euros from municipal budgets, the increase in electricity prices - about 19 million euros from municipal budgets, as well as the guaranteed increase in minimum income and housing allowance - in the amount of EUR 20 million. The three percent increase in the municipal budget will not cope with these expenses. Therefore, despite the increase in the budget, local authorities called the 2022 budget a survival budget. Why does the country lack money? Because tax execution is low, because the tax base is low, because in a country with national wealth per capita below the European Union average, growth rates are unacceptably low. In addressing the Saeima, I have referred on several occasions to the World Bank's Growth Survey on a strategy for sustainable growth and inclusive development. In order for a country to double its income over a period of 10 years and to achieve the level of development typical of Europe's old democracies, it is necessary to ensure continuous growth, on average, of seven per cent per year. One of the most important findings of the report is that such a rate of growth can be achieved if the total amount of investment in the country reaches 25 per cent of gross domestic product every year, counting together private and public investment and investing another seven per cent of GDP in education and health, so total 32 per cent of GDP. Meanwhile, the investment rate in Latvia, including education and health care, will be 24 percent in 2022. So not 32, but 24 per cent of gross domestic product. The difference between the World Bank recommendation and the actual amount of investment in Latvia is eight percentage points. So Latvia needs another two billion EUR 720 million of investment so that the economy can run and grow to seven per cent per year. Insufficient investment policy leads to insufficient budgetary revenue growth. How to increase investment in the Latvian economy? The current economic development policy was based on attracting private investment and limited to macro-economic stabilisation, in the hope that private money will enter the real economy. However, we can see that, even if this happens, this process is temporary and the increase in private investment is followed by a fall. In this context, the priority of investment policy should be to increase public investment. And there are two reasons. Public investment is needed to boost domestic demand and motivate private investment. Secondly, public funding is an indicator of the safety of sectoral investment and private investment is therefore always welcome to follow the public. The country, not the financial markets, must put pressure on economic development. And economic growth needs the engine. A state-established development bank could become such an engine for the provision of state aid targeted programmes. The bank's status would allow the capital of the institution to be used more efficiently. According to banking supervisory standards, a bank may grant loans or provide guarantees in accordance with capital adequacy requirements. This means that for every million euro, a capital development bank can provide between eight and 10 million euro in guarantees or loans. Therefore, EUR 100 million of capital, for example, will enable the bank to attract at least one billion more to the various state aid programmes. But in cooperation with commercial banks, it will be possible to lend more than one billion loans to the economy. A state-owned development bank operating in line with international banking supervisory standards has the ability to borrow financial resources on the capital market not only with but also without state guarantees. This money will be allocated to the creation of new assets, so it will not generate inflation and will not contribute to an increase in imports. The State Development Bank's investment is also motivated by private investment, as it reduces private investors' doubts about projects that are already credited by the state bank. Private investment comes where the state shows interest and invests. At the same time, the development finance institution Altum would guarantee loans from commercial banks, thus increasing the promotion of lending from commercial banks. What is hindering public investment? The neoliberal belief that a balanced budget will raise credit ratings and attract investors and treat active fiscal policies as waste. Ten years in a row, the European Prime Ministers repeated the neoliberal mantras of the European Commission, which have been taught again and again: they must live according to their means, not at the expense of future generations. And it was deliberately concealed and passed on to forget that living on debt is an area of the development of a free market economy, that next generation without debt also has a new wealth created by investing in borrowed money. Historically, it is precisely the active fiscal policy that has been one of the main means of development for all Western economies. WELCOMES the denial of active fiscal policy since the signing of the Intergovernmental Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union in 2012 and the amendment of the Stability and Growth Pact. WELCOMES expressed opposition, because the Treaty became the legal basis of a strict austerity policy, led to an increase in poverty in all the Member States of the European Union, including Latvia. In turn, Latvia adopted the Fiscal Discipline Act, which was in line with the treaty, which established a binding policy for the state, and which was strongly opposed by SASKĀJA. The Covid-19 crisis served to correct the errors. It has long been noticed that during the crisis, everything that is mature before the crisis comes into effect is finally coming into effect, and it misses the spirit of everything that should have gone a long time ago. If it were not mortality and the suffering of the sick, we should be grateful for the Covid-19 infection, which opened the door to fiscal policy development. The European Commission activated the exceptional clause in the Stability and Growth Pact and lifted strict constraints on the deficit-making process (concluded): "... to support Member States in protecting their citizens". ( End quoted). The question arises: if so, why stop protecting citizens after a pandemic? Meanwhile, a window for an active e-fiscal policy is open and should be used as long as this window is open. Another development is the reduction in labour taxes, but in order to ensure that labour taxes are enforced, the reduction in wages for a large number of employees, who have wages close to the country's average wage, makes it necessary to raise personal income tax rates for those parts of wages which are significantly higher... times the mean. The implementation of such a principle of progressiveity in the Latvian tax system has long since matured. The Working Group of the World Bank, which analysed the tax system of Latvia and presented its conclusions to the Government, also pointed to us in 2016 and 2017. Progressivity in the taxation of salaries with personal income tax is a pale copy of the progress that the Latvian economy has long been waiting for. In the attempts to adapt to its needs, Latvia has established a tax system that looks like a blanket, made from pieces of different clothes. This is personal income tax, which is decorated with soft and timid progressivity, without fear of state officials, heads of state-owned enterprises and recipients of high wages, they are also substitutes for progressiveity - solidarity tax and the regressive differential exempt minimum personal income tax. All this construction must be replaced by a single tax corresponding to the best practice of the OECD or the OSCE countries - taxation of the progressive income tax of citizens, namely the rates, the income thresholds at which the rates change, the number of rates. Moreover, the application of progressive tax in Latvia is inconsistent. If the company's income is distributed into dividends, it is subject to 20 per cent income tax and this rate does not progress, it is an equal rate, which, moreover, coincides with the lowest personal income tax rate. Both the owner of the cafe and the participant of the Latvian millionaires list pay a tax of 20 per cent. Thus, the principle of progressivity applies to salaries, but does not apply to dividends. There's also an answer here, where to take money for teachers' and doctors' salaries. Income tax dividends should be levied while applying the principle of progressiveity. Meanwhile, the state investment policy planned in the next year's budget, as well as in the medium-term budget, is not sufficient to generate the necessary increase in budget revenue for the growing economy and to ensure social equality, social guarantees and welfare for the people of Latvia at European level. I do not support such budgets and call on you, honourable colleagues, to vote against them too. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U81	Thank you. The floor in the debate for the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavlut. ( Pause) Mr. Pavilut, we can't hear you. We see you, but we can't hear you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U82	So, how is it now?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U83	Thank you, there's a very good hearing right now.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U84	That's weird. Thank you, honourable Member of the Saeima. Mr. Prime Minister! Ministers! Colleagues and colleagues! Members! First of all, thank you very much to the Minister for Finance, to the colleagues of the government, for their work on the next year's budget. I share the view of my colleagues that the work has been constructive and the process has been the best... from the budgets drawn up by that government. Thank you also to the health sector as a whole and colleagues of the Ministry of Health who have made huge efforts to identify and justify acute needs by developing a modern model of medical remuneration or reform, working on mental health, oncology, palliative care measures, digital health implementation and other issues. Thank you all. Year of pandemic. The pandemic will come to an end, we will win the virus, and then our decision today on the base funding for healthcare for next year and beyond will have a special weight. How will the industry develop, how will we prepare for the challenges that await us in the future, how ready we will be for future pandemics, for future crises. In the area of healthcare, we are taking a good step next year towards what we should achieve - the amount of funding, the health outcomes achieved, which are healthy life years, protected lives and prevent premature death. While we are clearly aware of all the other needs of the healthcare system, the additional EUR 103.7 million of basic funding (in total 130 million, if we include one-off investments) is a tangible, realistic increase in the budget in a situation in which the government, without changing taxes, could allocate some EUR 300 million in additional expenditure to all sectors in the next year in the current budgetary framework. This reflects our common understanding of the importance of health care for the general well-being of the country and society when healthcare is a government priority. This is the area with the largest increase in funding, a third of the overall increase available to ministries and institutions. Next year we will be in a better position than we are today. However, I am very aware that all needs are not enough, and this draft budget will also be subject to criticism from the sector. This criticism is also expressed in this debate today. We must be aware that healthcare in Latvia is still one of the most modestly funded in Europe. Latvia will also have to step up its strategic investment in health care in the coming years. What, then, are we going to channel these 100... around 100 million euros of basic funding for basic health services? I inevitably come back to the speeches made by the Prime Minister, the Finance Minister and other colleagues, which also mention health care, but there are some important things that I would like to emphasise once again about the draft budget for next year in the area of health. In the last two years, this government's main and actually only budget priority in the area of health was the remuneration of medical staff. This will continue next year, but this year the most important is additional funding for treatment. The increase in the budget for the following year will be felt by the patients. More money for oncology, palliative care, mental health, medicines. For example, the draft oncology plan 2022-2024 foresees an increase of 30 million for the implementation of this plan next year. There will be more money for new medicines, more cancer screening, smaller lines, more women who will be able to carry out breast reconstruction operations, and so on, and so on. Nearly €20 million will be available to patients in need of cancer treatment facilities, the long-awaited cancer registry. A very long-awaited and necessary increase in basic funding is waiting for palliative care - almost EUR five million. Increasing the range of services, including for patients with rare diseases (EUR 5.3 million), mental health. There will be additional funding for the vaccination of new groups of the population against influenza. For seniors, chronically ill - almost two million euros. And many, many other positions. From the point of view of access to health care, which was recently stressed by a representative of the World Health Organisation at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission... mention of EUR 8.2 million to cover the patient's contribution to the Group II disabled. I will not agree with Member Ramona Petraviča that nothing has been done about access to health care for people. Next year we will be able to continue raising medical fees and start implementing the medical salary model developed. This needs to be examined in advance and approved by the government. I understand that the sector has expected more than EUR 40 million, we have also requested more, but I would call on the industry to agree in a constructive dialogue on the urgent and enforceable elements of the model on the basis of the funding actually available. For the future, colleagues. The next year's budget will also strengthen new doctors and nurses' practices. This has already been the case here, too. We will be able to help those residents who work in hospitals but study for their own funds - so-called paid residents. We will be able to pay them the same remuneration as residents of the state budget. There will be additional funding for budgetary residents. In the coming years, we will be able to provide 30 additional budget-funded resident places each year. For the development of the sister profession - three million euros. Colleagues, next year health care will be allocated 4.59 per cent of gross domestic product in Latvia. We still have where to grow, compared with seven per cent of GDP, which is the average public funding for health care in the European Union. The topup must continue and be faster. There are many cross-sectoral and other sectoral issues in this draft budget that I would like to highlight. I do not want to delay you, but I would like to point out that I am pleased that we, as a government, have been able to secure the long-awaited increase in salaries for staff in the field of home affairs, culture, education and so on, as well. It seems particularly important to me that there is a substantial increase in the non-negotiable minimum, which will be particularly felt by low-income people as an increase in post-tax income. And I also very much welcome the substantial increase in funding for research. This will be the second time of the pandemic crisis. Last year we significantly increased salaries for medical staff, and we will continue to do so next year, while next year patients will also be able to make investments in healthcare. The World Health Organisation emphasises (and I join): investment in health is investment in healthy life years, protected lives and prevented premature death. Once again, thank you to the Ministry of Finance, Government colleagues and industry for their work together. I invite you to vote in favour of conceptual support for the draft state budget 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U85	Thank you Minister. Name of Minister for Culture Naurim Puntulis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U86	Hello, very honourable Head of the sitting! Prime Minister! Colleagues Ministers! Honourable Members! Today, it is repeatedly stressed that this is a balanced budget. Yes, it is balanced - balanced between all sectors, without leaving the cultural sector in the status of a minor, as has often been the case in these 30 years. Thank you very much to all colleagues in the coalition. The Ministry of Culture - an increase of 30 million, which could be called historic in volume. It will also provide an opportunity to balance the Ministry's own budget by increasing support for all priorities set by the Ministry of Culture, both in the public sector and in the private sector, professional, amateur, material and intangible cultural heritage, cultural education, international recognition and new initiatives, and, of course, the horizontal priorities of the Ministry of Culture - media and public cohesion. And now, briefly, our main priorities. Priority number one - raising wages in the cultural sector. This is an additional eight million, which will be distributed to every worker in the cultural sector, with an average increase of EUR 110 in remuneration in the cultural sector. I would remind you that of the last three budgets adopted under the current leadership of the Ministry of Culture, an increase of eight million's salary has already been achieved for the second time. Priority number two - a national identity, which in the context of the budget consists of three components: (a) National cinema - we have learned how to maintain the amount of support that allows the film industry to maintain the level and quality achieved in the centenary's Renaissance; (b) National bookkeeping - after several years of discussions we have finally agreed on a reduction in the value added tax rate for books; (c) One of the cornerstones of our nation's national holiday movement. With this budget, the government has given a signal that it understands the influence of the community on the Song Festival process, that it is aware of the national significance of this process, both in the distant past and in the distant future, therefore four million are provided on the way to 2023 Song Festival for the purpose of ensuring the movement of Song Festivals from the state budget. Priority number three - creativity. The State Culture Capital Fund is the only instrument that ensures the creativity of the non-governmental and private sectors. Thanks to the new funding model of the State Culture Capital Fund, the State Culture Capital Fund will become more than a million richer in 2022, but by attracting European financial instruments as well - even three million. Almost one third of the budget of the State Culture Capital Fund is richer. And briefly about other priorities in the context of next year's budget. Cultural education. Here I highlight the continuation of our success story - the project “School Bag” - and the funding for more effective implementation of programmes in cultural and art universities. International recognition. Here I will mention support, accepting a huge challenge, declaring Latvia as a guest country in the Frankfurt book market in 2025, symbolizing the fifth century of the first books in Latvian. The Sacred Heritage. Here I will mention an additional one million, which will be... on which the project to strengthen the foundations of the Dome Church will be implemented. Provision of our new initiatives - management of the Freedom Monument and implementation of the historical land law, as well as many others. And, of course, our horizontal priorities are the media. Here I will once again mention the reduction in value added tax for the printed press, the funding for the Media Support Fund, as well as the cohesion of society and support for non-governmental organisations. Colleagues! I say thank you today: I thank the team of the National Alliance for helping to argue, help to justify and defend. I thank the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, the Ministry of Finance for your patience in this process, for your in-depth examination, your understanding and, finally, your support. And, of course, thank you also to all the staff of the Ministry of Culture involved - for your self-employment in this process. Colleagues! Members of the Saeima! I call for support for this budget at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U87	Thank you, Minister. In the next debate, the Minister for Education and Science Anita Muižniece spoke. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U88	Highly honored Head of the sitting! Dear Members, Honourable Members! The next year's budget of the Ministry of Education and Science is with an emphasis on the knowledge society - as a key to society's well-being. In addition to the 42 million granted, of which the biggest increase - and indeed it has not been for a long time - is precisely the implementation of the basic functions of the country, we are satisfied because we see that we will have the opportunity to consistently and purposefully implement and direct the sector's important ideas. The main emphasis in general education next year, of course, is to increase the minimum wage rate for educators in line with the timetable for educators' salaries, with EUR 15.2 million. And this will allow for an increase in the lowest wage rate from 830 to at least €900 per rate. At least because in the coming weeks we will present a conceptual report on raising teachers' salaries at the end of the pay schedule, which will probably allow to raise the minimum wage even faster. We see that it is now time, particularly in the light of the recent administrative territorial reform, to finally consolidate the school network, thus also releasing the inefficient use of resources in general education and providing teachers with full-time work and a competitive wage. And yes, the system really has resources, contrary to what we have heard in the debate today, because where the school network is already in place - already now teachers get well above the average wage in the country for their work. And no, these changes will not mean automatic closure of small schools, as we have experienced with the various criteria of a minimum number of pupils in previous years, but the responsibility of the municipalities for planning the network of educational institutions and efficient use of funds. And if we always want to be like our neighbours, then it is worth looking at our neighbours this time and asking why the proportion of Estonian teachers and pupils is 15 students per teacher, while we have less than nine. And here everyone can ask themselves if it is possible or impossible to find funds for worthy teachers' salaries by optimizing the school network. It is precisely by strengthening the role of municipalities as founders of institutions, allowing them to become active allies in ensuring quality education for every child, Latvia will also finally be able to break out of the seemingly endless circle of underfunding for proper teachers' salaries. This budget also provides for additional funding, which will allow the minimum salary rate of pre-school teacher to be raised to EUR 872 this year to EUR 942. And also on the road to increasingly inclusive education, the additional funds allocated to providing an assistant service in educational institutions will enable us to provide an increasingly open, more accessible and - which is not insignificant - qualitatively inclusive education service for every child in need. As well as the extra funds allocated for examination, the implementation phase of the transition to the new content of training will be successfully completed. In higher education, however, our priority is to ensure access to higher education. It has already been mentioned that for the first time since 2004, the number of grant beneficiaries as well as the amount of the grant itself has been increased by 40 percent from the previous 99 euros to 140 euros. Also with this school year, the first social scholarship fund was established for students from multi-child families, as well as of course we will continue crediting the studies that have already started. This, we see, will promote access to higher education, reduce the drop-out rate of students and promote the motivation of students for full studies. We have heard that the issue of funds for the implementation of university reform, as well as funding for the remuneration of university teachers, is still topical. It must be said here that it is the salaries of the teaching staff that come from three sources - from state-granted study places, from the research base and from the funding of the competition, and from the student's own study fees. Our main task as Ministry is to provide funding for studies and research, so that universities pay competitive remuneration within their autonomy. In turn, we will increase scientific money for this purpose. And we have planned growth in Structural Funds funding, in particular for research, as well as investment in 82.5 million of funding for the Recovery and Stability Mechanism, which will be directed both at the sector's consolidation solutions, in order to create a more efficient and competitive system of higher education, as well as in order to implement the strategic specialisation of the University of University Law, to strengthen cooperation with industry and to build the capacity of academic staff to build academic careers, i.e. funding for doctoral and post-doctoral research, and to strengthen excellence in the profession. However, as is the availability of higher education, of course, there is always under-funding for science... continues to be relevant. But this year, at last, we will also be able to show financially - not just in words - that science is a national priority and that the sector will be supported. Overall, of the additional 12.2 million already mentioned for science, 7.6 million are precisely for increasing the scientific base, which will also allow the introduction of a new model of science-based funding. It is worth noting here that since 2008, when basic funding was reduced by almost half in times of crisis, it has been slow (but insufficient) to pre-crisis levels, but remained practically unchanged in recent years. That is why these 7.2 million are certainly a big and long-needed first step, which must not stop in the years to come, because it is the science base that underpins all strategic objectives and sustainability. Of course, we are also pleased with the additional three million fundamental and applied research programme, which will significantly increase the number of projects to be supported and will continue to serve as a basis not only for the creation of science but also for future innovation. I would also like to highlight that in the sport sector, the budget preparation process has managed to resolve the issue of increasing the basic expenditure of the state sports budget, which will finally allow the sector to gain stability and predictability about the amount of FP funding, not only in 2022, but also in the coming years. In addition, although the Ministry of Education and Science usually talks about reforms in the context of schools or universities, there is a centralisation of the management of state-owned enterprises in the sport sector, a reform of the governance and administrative management model of sport financing, as well as a revision of the financing model of the vocational training programme. And in conclusion, for which there is a special pleasure in this budget. We were ambitious enough, as well as being responsible for youth policy, and we applied for an increase in funding in the budget base for the work with young people of EUR 754 000 or 131 percent, thus achieving an optimal level of funding at the Baltic level. And this is really historical, because the youth policy has somehow always been like a modern one. However, I think that it is precisely this difficult time that is showing us more and more and more the importance of critically minded, mediatic and civicly active and responsible societies. And it is the non-governmental sector - youth organisations - where such a society is formed. In conclusion, I would like to thank my colleagues in the government for their constructive approach to the next year's budget and, of course, the entire team of the Ministry of Education and Science and those of the Ministry of Finance. Thank you for your attention and, of course, I call on you to support this budget.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U89	Thank you, Minister. Dear Members, Honourable Members! Everyone here! So it's time for the next break. Before we go on a break - registration of the presence of Members. It's been a success. Interruption until 16.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U90	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. Let us continue the debate. So the name of Member John Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U91	Hello, colleagues! Today, I will join the positive-thinking Members and speak well about the draft state budget laws, because it is always easier to find and criticise something, than to say something good. I will add to what the Minister of Transport has already said about the budget section of the Ministry of Transport, where the Ministry of Transport has developed a programme of arrangement and development of major roads, as well as a programme of regional and local road arrangement. The Ministry of Transport has finally determined the development of micromobility infrastructure, by which we understand the development of bicycle and pedestrian roads. And for the first time, the funding of the basic budget for the following and following years has placed a position in the development of bicycles of more than EUR million. What, then, is the position of this Ministry of Transport and the further development of bicycles? Thus, mainly the Ministry of Transport has planned to develop bicycles in two main directions. One direction is the development of national-level bicycles - these are bicycle roads that connect the largest cities of Latvia, mainly bicycle roads that radially go outside... to the surrounding major cities from Riga. And the development of regional bicycles or micro-mobility infrastructure, where regional development centres are connected to the immediate settlements, so that citizens can get from the nearest settlement to school or work, shopping or other necessary activities. This political direction, which we are referring to in the distribution of this budget heading, also means joint work for the development of this infrastructure, or more specifically: a country is not one that can develop all the necessary infrastructure, so in this way we also address local authorities and show local authorities the way in which they need to invest. There are already positive examples of municipalities, where municipalities connect their cities and cities with their immediate settlements to build this infrastructure at their own expense. It must be acknowledged that it is not only where the state or municipality builds this infrastructure, but there are also common examples of cooperation where both the municipality and the state invest together, thus achieving their desired goal. Consequently, I am pleased that such a position has been included for the first time and I call on Members to support the whole budget package together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U92	Thank you. Name: Minister of Justice Janis Bordans.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U93	Hello, honorable Saeima Presidium! Dear Members, Honourable Members! If several Members and ministers have just resigned from the negotiations on this year's budget only once, but have marked some common field about what the budget is and what the budgets have been during the work of this government in general, let me also say a little about this and record the most important things about the budget of the Ministry of Justice. As the Head of the New Conservative Party, a Member of the Prime Minister and also a Minister of Justice, I would like to remind all my fellow Members that this is the fourth budget that this government you, the Saeima, has submitted for your approval. Looking at the databases, I have to find that no government has approved four budgets so far during the existence of the Republic of Latvia, perhaps with interruptions... but this has been a very specific one government that has gone through the entire parliamentary term and has drawn up four budgets in a row. Needless to remind you, not only the highly honored opposition, but also the highly respected colleagues from the old parties in this government have been rather accusing of whether the government in question will exist for a period of two years, perhaps a little longer... and will be able to stay for a few months. As I mentioned in 2019, you will be... and now I think every member of society who follows politics can find that he is surprised at the way this particular government has done. Many media and politicians (mainly those based and sponsored by the former oligarchs in Latvia) use the term “the worst government that has been”. Then I would remind you that this government has achieved, over the course of four years' budgets, an incredible increase in wages that has not been achieved so far by a single government: the amount of salaries for medical, teachers and, yes, also for judges, prosecutors, employees of law enforcement institutions. This specific budget does not provide for an increase in taxes, but by fulfilling the provisions of the 3 × 500 plan, this means, in fact, a reduction in taxes due to an increase in non-tax... budget, is so... As a result, the tax base will be reduced. There is also an increase in the average... Thus, minimum wages have also been increased. What does that mean? This means that during these four budgets we have worked very significantly and consistently to increase the base of the middle class, the middle class of Latvian society. As we know, the middle class is what forms the core of every nation, every society. We have also taken care of the respectable elders who, in their... after done... life-related work after taxes paid deserves pensions. And the rise in pensions over these four years has also risen incredibly to a large extent. And all this has been done by this worst government in Latvia's history - the worst government for oligarchs and the worst government in Latvia's history for corrupt politicians of old. As regards the Ministry of Justice, I can tell you that during these four years, despite the 11 percent reduction in the number of employees in the Ministry of Justice, the total number of employees has been reduced by 11 percent, we have managed to find both internal reserves each year, which, for example, strengthen the activities of the Latvian Journal, that it no longer has to look after additional funding each year, and we have been able to fulfil all the functions that the Ministry of Justice of Latvia has to perform traditionally - these functions include ensuring the legal environment stimulating business development and competitiveness, ensuring the execution of penalties, protecting children's rights, ensuring the public with information about real estate and the objects that form the property in the country, as well as other areas that include constitutional law policy. We're from our budget... both the surplus and the additional budget received... we have invested mainly in the field of education. The Prime Minister has already mentioned that reforms have been carried out in the field of justice, but the Prime Minister touched mainly on one of the areas, in fact one of the reforms, which were carried out mainly by specialists of the Ministry of Justice, lawyers of the Ministry of Justice, namely that Latvia did not arrive on the Moneyval list, but it was a question that was... where there was, on the basis of a lack of conduct in the work of the law enforcement authorities and which led to a specific crash. But they were not part of the planned reforms of the Ministry of Justice. This government has planned to bring about major changes in a number of sectors. And above all, we saw the need to invest in education, so that both judges, prosecutors and investigators and, to a certain extent, lawyers would be able to interpret the norms of the law in the same way, so that they could talk about evidence in court proceedings, about understanding of rights to the same extent, at the same good level, according to European requirements. In addition to Latvia's budget, we have set aside funds from the ARM funds, from the European Union's structural funds, we invest mainly in creating new educational institutions, both in the area of justice and in support of the same funds and the same education sectors in the field of home affairs. And I would like to mention one fact: all this we have done in a huge crisis situation. Compared to the crisis in 2008, which in my view was a smaller crisis than this crisis in the community, we have not closed the educational institutions, but we are already working hard, investing and creating new educational institutions. We have created a specialised court, we have created a reform centre in the area of expertise, which has also been the subject of the 1990s. We've created and started this year... in reality, the first uniform examinations of lawyers have already taken place across the country... and has also launched reforms in prison infrastructure. So, for example, we've closed one of the oldest and maybe the infrastructure... the most inadequate prisons and serious work on infrastructure development is under way. The most significant benefits for society in the justice sector from these amounts, which represent a budgetary change in relation to the previous year... I will mention the fact that citizens will have access free of charge to information in the form of open data from the State cadastre of Real Estate, the State Address Register, topographical information of high detail and the information system of affected areas. This open data policy is very important for the start-ups mentioned by Reinis Znotiņš in his speech on the budget and also mentioned by other ministers of my fellow Members. Increase of remuneration and provision of social guarantees to the State Probation Service. 10 years of work on the calculation of losses caused by the occupation of the USSR has been completed. And it is not simply an empty talk about negotiations, about losses and so on, but a scientifically sound job with which we will be able to defend our justified demands, not only by demanding that the Soviet Union's heir Russia receive appropriate compensation for mass deportations and crimes during the occupation, but also by standing up against this hostile propaganda, which is particularly evident in the context of the hybrid war at present. Improving digital solutions in courts and access to justice for citizens in order to ensure information technology and high quality customer service in today's circumstances is also provided with additional resources. And for the first time, as I said, in the history of the last 90 years, a position as a Latvian-language consultant will be created in the state administration to strengthen the second form of Latvian-language writing, Latgalian writing and written language. Finally, I would like to say that please support this budget. This government will be able to manage it without the same threat as it has been in the past 30 years on the scale of the extortion of the budget. Although perhaps our specialised anti-corruption authorities have not succeeded very well at the moment with the corrupt, new corrupt, capture, detection and detection of crime, it is perhaps also due to the fact that this government simply has much less such crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U94	Thank you. Name to Member Rihard Kozlovski.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U95	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Ministers! Dear colleagues, The draft law on the budget for the following year and medium term is 13. The last budget of the parliamentary parliamentary term, which has been allocated to Members for evaluation. It is prepared in a situation where not only the Latvian government, but society as a whole, is facing a serious challenge. For almost the second year we have been living under the conditions of the Covid-19 pandemic, and we all know what is currently happening in the healthcare system in connection with the Covid-19 third wave. Our doctors self - sacrificingly fight for the life and health of our citizens, which requires enormous physical and spiritual effort. Therefore, I think it is important to stress that the Latvian government has identified the health sector as a priority sector in the next year's budget and about 40 million are directed specifically to increase medical pay. In our country, there are only two sectors where the budget has doubled over the last six years, one of which is the health sector. There is no doubt that the funding currently available to the health sector is insufficient. However, honourable colleagues, in addition to the health sector, there are a number of other sectors for which funding is also far from optimal, which we could also have heard from our colleagues in today's debate. The government therefore had to make a distinction between priorities. It made its choice as a priority sector for health, internal security and education. I would like to emphasise positively that internal security has also been included in the list of government priorities next year, and with about EUR 20 million for salaries, the increase in remuneration, it is a very important contribution for the home sector. I also welcome the allocation of almost three million euro for the establishment of an investigator education centre to increase the capacity and qualifications of our investigators and, of course, also 20 million euro, which has been earmarked and will be available to the rescue service for the purchase of new vehicles. On the other hand, when it comes to internal security, I would like to emphasise that we obviously see that internal and external security is inextricably linked today. To a certain extent, I think that the home sector can have a positive impact on the defence sector, given that a certain and guaranteed increase in funding based on international commitments gives the defence industry the opportunity to plan our country's defence capabilities in the long term. Unfortunately, when it comes to the area of home affairs, it must respond to the consequences. And when it comes to the long term, it is still in the distant future. Therefore, of course, I believe that it should also be re-evaluated and, in future, devoted to it... that the home sector and internal security as a whole are convinced of a certain increase in finance and that it is also possible to plan... their capabilities. In addition, I would also like to emphasise the fact that the government continues and undertakes to continue to finance the schedule for the increase in teachers' salaries... aid to municipalities, aid for the repair of regional roads, the raising of an inequitable minimum - this is far from an exhaustive list of the areas for which the government intends to increase funding next year. We have already heard in the debate today from colleagues in the sector where this increase will take place. In my opinion, the result of the fiscal policy of the responsible government is a high Latvian credit rating. This, in turn, has enabled the government to borrow on very favourable terms in international financial markets. And we had the opportunity and also have the opportunity to use these funds to deal with the effects of the collective. The financial stability provided by the government also gives us some guarantees for the future. In my opinion, the government as a whole has managed to prepare a balanced budget, also providing an opportunity for growth in this budget. I would like to emphasise all this - not by increasing taxes, but, on the contrary, by reducing taxes. Therefore, my fellow Members, I would like to thank the team of the Ministry of Finance, the Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister, the Cabinet of Ministers in general for the timely preparation of the draft state budget and its submission to the Saeima. Thanks also to colleagues from the Commission on Budgets and Finance (Tax) who supported the first reading of the legislative package. That is why I also call on you, my fellow Members, to vote in favour today and to support the first-reading budget package. Colleagues, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U96	Thank you. The name of the Member, Ilze Indrickson.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U97	Hello, colleagues! This year's priority, as well as next year's, is and will be a health priority for all of us. This can also be seen in the state budget. But I would like to emphasise the substantial investments made by the state budget 2022 in a number of areas that are important: health, support for families and children, strengthening national identity, promoting economic growth, competitiveness and development as such, especially in regions. Most of the additional funding is directly for the health sector - over EUR 130 million. An increase in the number of medical staff is foreseen and it is also foreseen to increase the cost of salaries of residents, which will give the long-awaited opportunity to increase the number of students in residence, and will also be paid for the work of paid residents, which is important. Almost 50 million additional funding in the field of oncology, investing in access to medicines and improving treatment. This shows that a first but very important step is being taken towards implementing the oncology plan. Oncologists have been heard, patient organisations have been heard, and I think the work carried out by members of the group supporting patients in oncology in the Saeima is also important. Additional funding is also planned for the extension of the state-paid medical fertilisation programme and state-paid epidural anaesthesia in childbirth, which is certainly very important for the young families of Latvia. Support for families with children from January next year will be the long-awaited reform of family state benefits, providing significantly more support for families with children. In the past, colleagues have said that this is an important step not only for today, but also for the future, and the benefit of one dependent child will be increased proportionately - even double, perhaps even tripled - because it will now be paid for specifically dependent children. If it is a family with four children, it will already be 400 euros per month. This reform also includes a programme of social grants for students from large families. This is an additional benefit for those young people who want to get an education, and this programme has already started its activities in September, enabling them to receive an additional monthly grant of EUR 160 per month. At the same time, the joy of the initiative and the support of the Ministry of Education and Science to take care of young people's involvement in public activities, develop awareness of statehood, increase participation level, and then, after a long break, an additional 750 thousand euros have been planned for youth work. It is very important for the budget to see... and it is a pleasure that all partners have also appreciated the importance of strengthening national identity right now, now - in this pandemic situation. In addition to this priority, more than €11 million has been planned and will allow for a full preparation for the Song and Dance Celebration and their tradition in 2023. It also provides for a funding allocation to 1638 collective managers who will prepare their collective participation in the festival. Support is also foreseen for the bookkeeping industry by reducing value added tax on printed matter. Additional funding will allow the National Library of Latvia to make a new purchase of books, as well as to implement a reading promotion programme and to host new films, thus continuing the development of national cinema. No increase in tax is planned in the 2022 budget, whereas from 2022 it is planned to apply a VAT rate of five per cent to periodical expenditure, to books that are significantly less and that will allow us to keep printing available in both booksellers and libraries and will also support local mass media. Also funding was granted to mark the centenary of the adoption of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia. It is very important that we have created an opportunity to allocate funding in the value of two and a half million to continue the “Latvian School Bag” programme, which was successfully launched during the centenary celebrations. This programme 232 thousand Latvian students will provide an opportunity to experience events of both present and digital culture. Cultural heritage also plays a national role. And the preservation of historical and memorial sites, including the Freedom Monument and Brothers Cemetery, as well as the sacral heritage and monuments rescue program, the Dome Church... three million euros have been allocated to other works. The next year it is planned to continue investing in Latvia's growth and competitiveness. And it is important to mention here that, in order for our country to grow wisely and with greater added value, there is a substantial additional contribution to science - not only for more than EUR 10 million for the funding of the scientific base and for fundamental and applied research, but also for the first time for four million for the innovation fund for sectoral research programmes, which will enable scientific advances to be carried out successively as far as specific sectoral innovation projects are concerned and to be implemented, both in production, in the provision of services and in adding value. Attracting investment is very important in the years to come, and it will be heavily invested by a major investment fund that... This year, there is a support programme for entrepreneurs for large investment projects, which means projects of at least EUR 10 million. It will provide a combined financial instrument support, and it is planned that already in 2022, with additional funding from the state budget, the total funding of the programme will reach EUR 100 million. The programme will be open by the end of this year. In order to further reduce the tax burden on low-income recipients and improve Latvia's competitiveness among the Baltic States, it is important that the tax burden on labour directly on low-wage earners will be reduced by raising the threshold for the differentiated non-taxable minimum from 1 January to 350 euros, from 1 July to 500 euros per month. This exemption will also apply to pensioners. It is planned to spend EUR 93 million on this change, which is an important contribution to future economic growth, in terms of competitiveness. Regional development is also a priority in the preparation of the budget. For the development of the business initiative in the regions, providing incubators with full capacity and maintaining the existing aid intensity for entrepreneurs, we have found a solution by redistributing an additional €6 million of funding from other programmes. An important contribution to regional development will also be €57 million for the conversion and renewal of national regional roads over 500 kilometres. Also €50 million for the improvement of the Ministry of Agriculture's sector infrastructure and the restoration of technical provision, melorisation systems and additional contribution to the monitoring of green procurement to support the purchase of healthier, more environmentally friendly and more accessible goods and services for local entrepreneurs for the needs of the population. A hundred million euro for municipal projects - EUR 30 million as grants and an increase in the borrowing limits of 70 million municipalities - will also make a significant contribution to the development of the living and business environment in the regions. Access to housing is essential for regional development. This will be addressed in EU-funded programmes as early as next year. From the state budget resources, the housing access support programme for families and young families, as well as specialists, as well as the housing grants programme "Bolds" for multi-child families will be continued. Both of them are being actively exploited already today. More than 18 thousand families with more than 26 thousand children have benefited from the guarantee this year, and more than 240 families with more than 750 children have benefited from and received support from the "Blast" programme this year. A significant step will be taken to ensure a safe living environment and the home sector will also be strengthened, with a total increase of EUR 20.7 million in wages for workers in the sector. Financing... the support is intended for the Fire and Rescue Service, the means of transport required by the State Police and the improvement of education in the home sector. Taking into account that changes in personal income tax have a direct impact on municipal revenue, additional funding of the state budget is foreseen for the equalization of municipal income, which will ensure an increase in the balanced income of municipalities in 2022 by 3.1 percent compared to 2021. It is also planned to maintain guarantees for municipalities in the amount of 100 per cent of personal income tax forecasts in 2022. This will ensure predictability and stability of budget revenue for municipalities. On behalf of the political group, I would like to thank the ministers, all the ministries and staff involved for their unselfish and, I could say, for their great contribution to this tight budgetary planning process, as well as for their constructive cooperation. The 2022 budget is for our country's growth, competitiveness, families and national identity. Investment will be made in human beings, culture, innovation and technology, as well as oncology medicines and support for families. On behalf of the Group of the National Alliance, I call for support for this draft budget at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U98	Thank you. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U99	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, as well as colleagues. I am listening to the debate, and there is a feeling that the milk rivers will flow in 2022. At the same time, we often hear from the Minister for Health that we are on the edge of the blood. Unfortunately, it must be concluded that these words are used only to frighten - to scare rather than acknowledge the mistakes made and the absolutely short-sighted policies in the health, education and science sectors. Yes, the situation is really dramatic at the moment. However, I call for careful consideration of the deepest and real reasons why Latvia has come to where we are now. It is more than clear that some superficial advertising campaigns, including in yellow, cannot change the attitude of society towards science, if the government itself has long been disgusting about Latvian scientists, giving as little budgetary resources as possible for this area every year, despite the fact that the law adopted by itself has still been written differently. The state of disaster we are now in is not due to the Covidvirus. The whole is based on the nihilistic attitude of the government and the current coalition parties towards health, science and education. For years these sectors are not adequately funded, without promoting the quality of education and public confidence in science and its progress. And today we see the consequences. This, of course, does not occur on one day, but it is high time to invest in these sectors, because the results will be in a number of years' time. As long as we get out of the pit, Latvia will be the first in most areas of the European Union from the end. The election promises for all parties put education and science first, but where it is true, the budgets created by these governments and the behaviour and attitude of society at present prove. This year's budget, too, has no expectations, and it seems that its creators have still not understood and learned. It is not surprising that young, young, capable teachers do not enter the educational system. Looking at the vacancies and the salaries offered, we pay the farmer and the assistant preschool teacher working in close contact with the children almost equally – the minimum wage in the country. Nor do the requirements for both posts differ. The salary offered to teachers does not reach the average wage in the country. No one is looking at the reasons why teachers leave work. Pedagogics are always publicist, criticising, wage models are being developed one by one, realizing for themselves that according to the lack of funding and... the deficiency cannot be solved by any model. We are constantly grieving about the work of educators, and in certain situations we are generalizing it to the whole educators’ family. You can't do that! As a result of the management of the intrusive sector, the education system is just as much blood aside as the health system. It is clear to everyone that learning at a distance for almost a year will not be without consequences. Support for educators, support for staff and pupils with learning difficulties is now urgently needed... not the milk river solot... but now. The small premiums received by educators are not considered economically relevant because they did not cover even the time spent on the accounts. Will the planned increase in educators' salaries cover all educators with inflation, increases in energy prices, cost of life, and any additional responsibilities stemming from the pandemic? Small patches that are given so loudly that you can say that the increase in pay will... However, this will not make any contribution to the quality of education. Finally, when reviewing the budget, it must be concluded that the public administration has not learned anything from the current crisis. Let me just give you a few examples. Without being able to comply with the Constitution, various state institutions have decided to organise celebrations of the centenary of the Satversme for rather large amounts. The increase in representation expenses is planned, the increase in remuneration of the public administration. About what? For a well-managed crisis? And what do we represent? A country that is on the edge of blood! In KNAB's view, 600 thousand euros can be spent on grade 7-9 students, creating games. And this is an acceptable budget outturn in times of crisis? Is that what students need most after a year of distance learning, which unfortunately continues again? Real life and budget are like parallel worlds that do not fit each other. If the current catastrophic situation cannot teach us anything, then I have a question: who can? At a time when, I hope, the ministers are dealing with the operational tasks of the crisis, because Latvia does not already have a crisis plan, we in the Saeima have more than ever to take responsibility for drawing up the budget. It is precisely today that we need to start moving towards sustainable development in Latvia, and I hope that at least now it is clear to all that it is based on education and science. And more. I really hope that the Covid-19 crisis will open up... and perhaps some have already opened their eyes and it is clear to all that health, education and science are priorities for our country today, and this must be reflected in the budget. The Covid-19 figures are shouting. On the eve of the 103rd birthday of Latvia, it seems that the country has developed so far that children will not go to school, all those who need it will not receive primary and even immediate health care, and will still be forced (the Sound Break.) ... and deplorable. And as pathetic as it is (A sound break.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U100	Mrs Papules, we can see that there are problems with the Internet connection, and from time to time your words cannot be heard.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U101	Yeah. I can repeat it if you give me time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U102	Unfortunately, each Member is responsible for the quality of the Internet connection.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U103	Yeah, then I'll go on. It is equally regrettable that many cancer patients in Latvia perceive this diagnosis as a death sentence and their only chance of obtaining the necessary medicines is to approach society and ask for donations. That is not acceptable! In other countries oncological diseases are considered chronic diseases that can be treated with effective, innovative medicines. When reviewing the budget, it is obvious that certain ministries and public authorities still unfortunately have no understanding of what is a priority at this time, and we have the opportunity to channel funds whose usefulness is more than questionable to public health. Yes, including oncological diseases and innovative medicines. Innovative oncology medicinal products, which have been in the queue for years to be included in the list of Latvian compensated medicinal products, have long since been not considered as innovative and are not referred to as such in other countries. Why do we not care about our people, their lives and health, and their quality of life? Let us not be arrogant: each of us may one day find himself in a situation that I do not, of course, wish anyone... with this diagnosis. But maybe only then can people, including us, realise that nothing has been done to improve the situation in this area. I have to admit that the Ministry of Health has created an oncology plan and millions of innovative medicines are available in 2022, but there is no real budget. Once again, the paper endures everything. Then why do we pay the price for creating such plans, which we cannot afford ourselves adequate funding and which no one is even planning to implement. I would like to say that the Group of Members, the Republic, will carry out a thorough review of the budget lines and will offer opportunities to find funds for this line as well. I call on the coalition parties to make their promises, to evaluate their priorities and to allocate their resources to the real priorities of health, education and science. I call for the budget not to be supported in this way, but for the second reading... including coalition parties (for the milk rivers can really ted... make changes according to the needs of today's situation and your own priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U104	Thank you. Name to Member Juris Pucem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U105	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Highly respected colleagues and highly respected colleagues! Today, the Saeima is reviewing the draft state budget law of 2022 and related draft laws at first reading. This is a budget that addresses a number of long-term challenges and responds to today's challenges. What are the long-term problems that the budget is tackling? First, the imbalance of remuneration in the public sector has hindered the availability and quality of important public services. This budget will increase the pay for health care, education, the home system, social and cultural workers alike. At the same time, it adopts particularly important and significant amendments to the single remuneration law, to which the Saeima has indeed been waiting for several years, and these amendments will have a positive impact in the long term on the quality of public administration and public sector work. Secondly, the issue of inequality is very sharp in Latvia. Income inequality has a negative impact on our competitiveness. With a significant increase in the inequitable minimum - up to EUR 500 with 1 July next year for both workers and pensioners - we have taken a wide-ranging step to significantly reduce inequalities. Thirdly, the country will continue to make significant investments in regional development. Regional income inequality is an important obstacle to our country's development, so administrative territorial reform was important and therefore important and still important investments in the regions. With the 2022 budget and the decisions already taken, the Recovery and Stability Mechanism will fully provide funding for the so-called €300 million road programme promised at the time of ATR approval. At the same time, for the second year in a row, the state investment programme for municipalities has actually been restored; the case, which the municipalities have requested for 15 years, has already been in operation for two years. Fourthly, funding for health care, funding for science, funding for internal security, funding for youth work and civil society - these were areas where national years have been unable to take appropriate decisions. This budget is a step towards breaking this approach and ensuring that these particularly important areas are adequately funded. There would be so many valuable initiatives to mention, which address the long-term problems of our public administration, but what has been the answer to today's challenges? Firstly, the Covid-19 pandemic has clearly highlighted the need to invest much more in long-term healthcare. This Saeima has done a lot in this direction. In the 2018 budget for healthcare there was less than three and a half per cent of gross domestic product, in 2022, apart from the healthcare funding needed for the Covid-19 needs, we will draw close to a slow spirit - but let's get closer! - five per cent of gross domestic product. It is clear that next year we will have to invest even more to combat the pandemic, which is beyond doubt today, but important steps have been taken in the right direction. Second, investment. It will be important to stimulate economic growth to mitigate the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. This draft budget is both continuing to invest in the public sector and providing substantial support to the private sector, including, of course, re-iterating the reduction of the tax burden on the lower-paid. This will have a significant impact on this purpose... Achievement. Thirdly, investment in the security of the country - to be worthy of resisting the sharp hybrid war that has been developed against our country by an unfriendly neighbouring country. Investment in the home system has been delayed for many years; it is now a priority. Investments in national defence will consistently exceed two per cent of gross domestic product over the four years, an indicator that seemed unrealistic a few years ago. Fourth. Finally... The state will continue to invest more in the media – both public media and commercial and private non-governmental media. It is a long-term investment in both the security of our country and the development of society. Development/About! support the adoption of the national budget and related draft laws. I would like to thank the Cabinet of Ministers, in particular the Minister of Finance, for the work that has been done to prepare the budget, the coalition partners for constructive cooperation on a matter important to the development of the country. Next, 2022. - the year will be the year of growth. The public budget supports this growth. Let's vote 'for'! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U106	Thank you. Name to Member Long Schuplinsk.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U107	Hello! Lobby dyna! Oh, my God! On the one hand, listening to today's discussion really gives the impression that very many problems have been put into practice in the long term, as Mr Pouce has already mentioned... is launching a real solution to this budget. Of course, on the one hand, it is precisely this inequitable minimum, and I must say, an increase, like the problem raised by the Minister of Transport, that in principle all areas of the budget have been plundered, suggesting that we are still unaware that our country has changed the state form and that there must be a small fraction in every sector that is being allocated. That is why this, on the one hand, development of an illusory, safe, thought-out country does not really go hand in hand with the picture of reality. Here, I must continue with Mrs Papule's analogy, as well as with the problem. The first thing I certainly see very harshly in the functioning of the Saeima and, to be honest, also in today's budget sitting, is that the absurd theatre, which was also offered by the Daile Theatre and on which very many ministers rushed... to be a premiere, to continue in life. If this did not affect us individually and society as a whole, it would be very nice to look at ourselves from the side and see in such an absurd performance what has been done and what has not been done. On the other hand, journalists will certainly be able to put their headlines after today's Saeima meeting, that Latvia has the best budget, that is, to say, for long-term development, for every person's well-being. But on the other hand, an absurd theatre remains an issue all the time. And that is the question: why do none of the ministers particularly stress (and probably most of all the Ministry of Finance) that, in contrast to these figures, which are really expected - when there is an increase in remuneration in very important roles and positions of the state - that there are no figures on inflation, on the increase in electricity tariffs and on how people will balance their basic survival this year? If these figures were to be used, then, in principle, this year's budget would show that we are still on the balance for survival. The other thing. This absurdity is reinforced by self-praising. It is really a question that I ask myself all the time: how would it be necessary to structure communication, not only with the public but with the opposition, but with the position of representatives of any industry, in order to focus basic energy on solving the problem, not on demonstrating the position of the majority that is represented in power and at that time? The answer is not clear. The answer is, of course, that it is not just a constant quest for communication, but a priority. In fact, until priorities are set, move from zero... or return all the time in an absurd circle... Not possible. And the priorities are all called - they are really health, education and science. It is quite bitter to hear that very many today's speakers are still trying to turn their backs on the five million research that was allocated to Covid-19 for the analysis of the circumstances. In fact, I agree with everyone who says that, in principle, precisely because there is no proper funding in education and science, we are now seeing both the spread of false news and the collapse of the Covid-19 crisis, and why these priorities are always afraid to be put forward. And why are they really afraid to raise? Because at a time when sufficient funding is placed in education, a person becomes independent. He is, in principle, no longer a voting machine, he no longer trusts in a budget that sees figures where there is an increase on one side, and on the other, I must say, the heading 'y' is not reflected in the reality. This means that he is no longer manipulatable. What unfortunately had to be found and seen in the current position of government and today also as an independent Member is precisely the fact that the Latvian Government still needs to be manipulated by a voter. In fact, it is very painful, because these 30 years seem to me to have taught many things but not the most important: if we want to solve a problem, we not only take responsibility, we not only look at this problem in cross-sectoral terms in the long term, but we also look at it as a priority. And that's why it's quite simple... It seems to me that what should be done by second reading - all ministries should abandon this elevated tone, where we say that there is a lack of between 10 million and 100 million in capacity. There are so many wonderful initiatives, which are also in this budget and which have started very... in the long term, for which there is a need for a change of attitude and which requires very little funding. If we are talking about education, then, in principle, the years that have passed have marked a number of very important and critical issues for the education sector, I would just name a few. The first one is the EMU tool, piloted last year, this year it took 800 thousand to be implemented completely in every elementary school in Latvia. What would that allow? This would allow class 1 students, just like age stages - other classes, to be assessed according to the development of the age stage, to give a road map to each teacher, if necessary, to a social educator and psychologist - how to work with a child to open up his potential so that indeed we can start to say that education is aimed at the child and this quality is linked to the child's ability and development of talents. The second is ‘Teaching Power’. We are, of course, hearing that it was a project of the European Union, and indeed it was. We hear that universities are ready to take over, and we also hear that very many colleagues are talking about how balanced regional development funding is. But we are also very aware that there are, for example, three universities working together in this project - University of Latvia, University of Liepaja and Daugavpils University. At this point, however, this development is again directed to the centre, while realizing that the capacity of Liepaja and Daugavpils, which is related to the provision of educational programmes, is strong and powerful enough, and at the same time it is not noticed that cooperation, which is excellent in the preparation of programmes, is the future of higher education. If we are talking about higher education, then a number of people have said very proudly that access to higher education will be increased because, you see, a social grant has been introduced. Undoubtedly, support at very different levels, very different target groups, is needed, but what are we talking about here? Thus, first of all, the families of many children, if their success has been seven and more, have constantly allowed the Vītolų Foundation to study in higher education. Secondly, budget seats, as we hear, remain unfilled this year too, which means that this is not such a big problem. Another question: does the moment we go to the higher education reform and talk about the fact that we do not have something to offer to our best export firms, we do not have something to offer for innovation, and there is nothing to introduce in manufacturing, we are still increasing accessibility or we are still looking purposefully for students who are able to develop, improve and compete at European and global level in this area? Whether this access should be extended to allow everyone to study, or whether it should be directed towards international competition and cooperation between our universities, creating excellent programmes, creating platforms where every student with potential is indeed supported by credit, with the help of a Vītols scholarship, with other things, and yet embeding... exactly in the field that allows the best to complete these studies, organize their work here and leave this innovation to Latvia. Another thing that very many are talking about and which is also worrying: indeed, there are two very important reforms that have happened or, more precisely, what is happening at the moment. It is both an administrative territorial reform and a reform of higher education. Both today's speakers and those in the media space... all this is of concern, and above all why? Because it is not because, in the two reforms that have focused on changes in governance, we now see that the major problem will be the huge amount of funding that will be spent directly on governance. Probably everyone has just seen the story of Aizkraukle district and it has been mentioned all the time that the funding of university councils is one of the main problems. In both cases, not this funding is a fundamental problem, but whether the staff at the university and the municipality can, firstly, think strategically, and secondly, attract those people who, with their ability, have the ability to see and experience the situation in which they are located, attract the most powerful and, of course, those who think in this respect in the long term... And therefore, the fact that a certain amount of finance is invested in one area or another does not state that Latvia's development will be aimed at people, quality and development. I would very much like this time to be the second reading... really listen to those areas where Latvia has very strong introductions and where very little funding is needed for the quality of every child, teacher, student, scientist... in the field of education and, perhaps, in other areas where this in-depth perspective is being directed towards other Members and Ministers... be respected. If we did, I would say that indeed this time has been used to see Latvia's perspective, despite the crisis. What is more, not only would I see, but I would finally believe that it is possible to find a fulfillment alongside us for Lithuania and Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U108	Thank you. The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U109	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Sir, Colleagues! Resurrection! When it comes to this budget, I think that the stages that the Prime Minister has spoken about are rather precise, but there is another stage to join. It's a borrowing phase. If we look at the figures, then starting work 13. In the family, our external debt was EUR 11 billion, now - 17. In fact, all the good things we're talking about here could be divided into two parts. One part is the current... current things that we have indeed had to finance in a chronic way and new political initiatives. If we are talking about the remuneration of employees in public administration (and in this case I am more concerned with financing, for example, domestic workers, education workers, and also medical workers), then inequalities are already very well known to us all. If we look at, for example, the salaries of medical staff in different ways... in areas, then it can be even ten times larger. And then they need to do what needs to be done... the needs to be financed. However, this kind of amount that we borrow... then we need to take a step forward. We will, of course, distribute the money that we have now, cover the needs that are needed, but what will happen afterwards? What will the next government, for example, have to do in five years' time if external debt service becomes more expensive? And that, by the way, is possible. How to cover such expenses, how to cover the repayment of the loan? This can only be done through tax increases. And now, the story of tax evasion, even some of them, is being reduced - it is, of course, nice, but the external debt is increasing, and it means that at one point it will also have to be repaid and, of course, there will be money paid by our citizens and businesses, which will have to be increased, and it will undoubtedly only be increased in one possible way, that is, it will have to be increased taxes. These are very simple perspectives. Consequently, the phase we are entering now is called the "borrowing phase", which already shows us very large numbers. We were told that there are countless... three crises have actually been defined, and we have been saddened by this aspect, but in reality we can call a number of crises: the inflation crisis, the chronic economic backwards from our neighbours and others. The crisis is by definition a set of circumstances that are both unforeseen and unpredictable and difficult to resolve in some way, for example by templates. Undoubtedly on the following question... I do not add the Covid-19 pandemic, because no one could predict it, of course, already, and the mistakes that have been made are also being seen within the framework of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. It has to be said that there, too, we see a repetition of chronic errors and no conclusions. Officials are looking at each other, very often, they have unfortunately become amnesty... and such problems as, of course, we are dealing with within the Commission. But anyway... For example, the issue of strengthening the national border has been topical since the 1990s, which is nothing new. The external threat, whether from Belarus or from Russia, has indeed been predictable, modelable, and the fence has long since had to be, so that this issue could have been dealt with much earlier, more timely, then we might not have seen such a problem at all. The energy crisis. In this case, too, we look, for example, at our interconnections... Our neighbours have often told us a variety of... issues (in this case I am talking about Lithuanians) both regarding the construction of a liquefied gas terminal, as well as interconnections and cooperation with Belarus. Today, we no longer have electricity coming from Belarus. It is, of course, a political decision, we could have made it, it was a political decision, in this case I will not criticise it... either positive or negative. There is no doubt that the influx of cheap energy has now reduced us - we can see this all - as a result of interconnections. It seemed a little funny... Listen to the fact that we are developing renewable energy capacity. If we look at simple figures, wind energy, for example, in Latvia makes 80 megawatts, in Estonia it makes about 320 megawatts and in Lithuania - 550 megawatts. Where can we talk about the development of renewable energy? The National Energy and Climate Plan has indeed set very ambitious targets, but where are we going with them? I'm afraid it's nowhere. In particular, of course, it is important to mention the issue of transport energy, which, unfortunately, has been scattered practically by five ministries, one responsible is practically absent, and therefore it is also very difficult to work on this issue. Therefore, renewable energy capacity does not seem to be something that we could be proud of; energy security is not being promoted at the moment. If we look at the budget as such, then, for example... Yes, the Ministry of Defence's budget was praised for having increased. There is no objection if the education budget had also increased. In this case, the 10 million dedicated to research... Well, I'm sorry, it's really nothing serious. We should certainly have more resources for research and education, because research is certainly essential after it is commercialised. It is therefore crucial to work on these aspects in this case. Funds allocated to the media. If it were public media, there was no question - public order, but on a commercial platform... commercial media are financed from the State. Colleagues, is it not like a little bit of media access, in such a simplified language to say? Perhaps yes, perhaps not, but that is not the direction that we could talk about if the financial resources were allocated directly to the public media. We have even set up a public media monitoring board, which could then actually also examine this issue. National development plan. There was already a very, very wide-ranging debate on this plan. It is adopted for years, it sets out our basic guidelines where we are moving, but the budget, colleagues, does not follow the National Development Plan every year. It is created as a result of a separate political market at the request of various ministries. Has anyone distinguished the National Development Plan and then budgeted? So what is the point of this National Development Plan? That's what? Another important thing. And it's a Covid-19 case. Aid to seniors, vaccinated persons. Well, the unvaccinated do not have this support. When they paid taxes, or someone said to them: “You know, you pay taxes, we will accept them equally, and then let us share them according to our own principles. You will be those who receive, but you will be those who do not receive.” I think that such inequality is a very bad example of how we are moving. If we look at the Constitution, sorting is not allowed. That is why both a vaccinated and unvaccinated pensioner should be supported in difficult times - and I have already called several crises - but not at the moment. This is precisely because all the funds that we are deciding on here are judged by the taxpayer and by our peoples. Thus, it would be equal to the principles set out in the Constitution... fair and equitable use must be made of it. When it comes to the whole, I guess... we see the crisis that is the main crisis. And that is the Covid-19 crisis of governance. When experts move away from cooperation with the government and a minister declares, for example, that it is time to hand over baskets to defence bodies, it is probably a very, very harsh testimony to the fact that we are actually on the eve of the Covid-19 crisis. Undoubtedly, there are things you can talk about as good... for those in the budget, but we are once again talking about those parts that are an ordinary necessity that need to be covered. And we can cover them. And then there are political initiatives that, in my opinion, have not been in the right direction right now. Colleagues, if we look at our neighbours (and we often want to compare ourselves with our colleagues in Lithuania and Estonia), then, unfortunately, e-commerce, industrialisation, development of the business environment, investment in these countries is making a lot of progress... better. And I'm sad about it. In reality, our country is with good resources, with good platform, with opportunities for cooperation, but why are we not where Estonians and Lithuanians are? Obviously, the political direction is not precise. If we talk to entrepreneurs, then often entrepreneurs are still talking about this major repair, which has been repaired so far that it is, in fact, difficult for many entrepreneurs to open accounts with our credit institutions. If there is no account, no business is possible. This is a basic condition for many entrepreneurs to go to Poland and Lithuania and solve these issues there. It's not black or white or gray... one entrepreneur, but perhaps we have regulated too much here, and perhaps the authorities dealing with it require a variety of excessively bureaucratic documents and demands that prevent entrepreneurs from developing here, and the entrepreneur, as always, chooses the easiest resistance... options. So, of course, the environment that awaits him... That's where he's coming. By its very nature, I think this budget should be redrafted, and it should look more at earning. If we listen to the experts of the Bank of Latvia (and it is essential to listen to the experts), then we hear that if there are funds available in the budget to raise wages, we have to meet the various simple needs... which is necessary for a year from the year... This is not the direction in which a country can develop and successfully repay this debt in time. The most important thing is to invest this money in economic development, so that we can earn as many companies with added value as possible here and that our peoples choose not to work in public administration but in the private sector, thereby instilling the so-called business gene in these people. I call for this budget not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U110	Thank you. The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U111	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, Mr. Prime Minister. Hello, colleagues! Today we hear a lot of words of thanks for the wonderful budget. Is that so? Doubt. I still see that no minister, no official or speaking Member can get from the position and say that the public administration has become intolerant to taxpayers. There is no evidence of this. Although the fact that all kinds of new initiatives come from all the officials is produced not because they are needed by the citizens, but because they need to justify their presence in office. Every national who pays taxes should know that money in Riga's offices has no value. Expenditure shall be planned in at least six digits. When an explanation of expenses is required, a state of ignorance, misunderstanding, or full amnesia arises. It is not necessary to look far at the millions of measurable measures that have absolutely nothing to do with the country and its citizens, with the exception of the increase in public debt, which will have to be borne by children and grandchildren. The rise in external debt once again makes it clear that the government is unable to distinguish between borrowing and earning. It's easy to spend money, but it will have to be given back with hard work. I hear praises, where nearly milky rivers are planned on the shores of the woodpecker in various sectors. I should like to thank my colleague, Mrs Papule, for her inspiration. Unfortunately, the view on the spot is very different. Examples include: In the fight against the community and in an attempt to incite the people of the country in the context of administrative territorial reform, it was repaired, so to speak, certain sections of the road, which were made by the method of extortion of the fragments. Either the workman's lingering hands or the casher's totality showed his... Results. Part of these roads has now been successfully freed from bracked stones, because they were not incorporated in a sufficient quality, not to mention car glasses cut off and the inconveniences created for road users, should also be highlighted in full disregard... ignoring from the ministry to prevent these darts. Unfortunately, it is not a good thing at this time either. When the Minister of Transport was asked about possible... to prevent the brothers, he replied that this would be done before 1 July, then - until 15 July. I will reveal the secret - it has still not been done. Perhaps my mistake was that it was not quite convincing to ask what year it was meant to be. Next, airBaltic received hundreds of millions of euros in entos to survive the crisis and prepare for the reconstruction of operations. I'll re-discover the secret - people fly, planes - new, but everything else is down to the rock. The airport loses its attractiveness, the baggage area has become a tortured place for every flightr. Yes, perhaps in the VIP area, where the most important members of society are set down and down, everything is fine. None of the airport management seems to care. We hear glowing talk about efforts to keep the community from spreading and not bringing it into the country. I had the opportunity to experience a thorough check of travellers, which was limited to writing paper on a small table in the baggage area - shoulder to shoulder... And no responsible person who shows any interest in writings and tries at least to imagine that it matters to someone! Next. When considering the draft budget, it is necessary to conclude that new jobs in public administration are required instead of reducing the state administration apparatus. The promises made by the Ministry of Finance regarding the revision of the budget and the reduction of expenditure come to mind here unwittingly. No position has so far noticed a reduction in staff associated with an administrative apparatus. Ministry and other state facilities continue to grow, and there are no mountains behind the moment that there will be more civil servants than employees in production. The gap between the nation and the government is becoming ever more extensive and deeper. The incessant intimidation of the population by co-media and by vaccination, expensive projects that end with no result, arrogant and selective treatment of the population's problems are at the heart of... there are grounds why this has happened. There is no secret fact that the resulting crises - the Covid crisis, the crisis of border offenders and the energy price crisis - will not affect public administration, even if only because none of them has to worry about the means of living. Otherwise, there will be those who have to think about dates and amounts themselves - when to get their funds and how to spend them. Regardless of whether they are employers or employees who do not operate in the public sector, each of them should feel state aid. Instead, they receive unjustified criticism that they cannot earn enough to feed the hungry public administration apparatus. In the mass media, where we cannot doubt the reliability of the information provided, or when we use the new language of the officials, we are actively discussing a new candidate for Prime Minister. Perhaps Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš will also take the floor at the end of the debate and I hope that he will be able to say exactly that the government is stable and another Prime Minister is not being discussed; that the government takes responsibility for all the decisions that have been made and will be taken in accordance with the principles of high morality and national necessity. I will not conceal my conviction and the conclusions that this government has wasted itself and that changes are needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U112	Thank you. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U113	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. High Prime Minister! I could call this state budget in 2022... Described by the phrase “Do not earn”. In the Prime Minister's debate on this budget, we heard a historical statement about various crises that have passed through Latvia... in which years, and when and what the rich “clubs” of Western countries we have joined. Among other things, the Prime Minister also repeated the smart reindustrialisation, thus pointing to the government's desire to promote economic development, but no words! - we did not hear about why Latvia's largest business organisation, the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, was not involved in this budget development, in order to give its assessment of forecasts in the revenue section. We did not hear any words about why the Latvian economy is still a stable last place in the Baltic region in terms of competitiveness. We did not hear any words about why doctors were still not paid as much as they had been promised, even though health funding has increased significantly. It seems that we value infrastructure and concrete higher than medical doctors. No word in this budget is about how... and also in the budget debate, we did not hear from the Prime Minister about how we will effectively and meaningfully reduce the cosmic increase in energy prices and its impact on our economy, on people's solvency or... in fact, the promotion of new insolvency proceedings. There are many different good things in the budget, but they are all at the expense of money. We're not putting any emphasis on this budget... To be precise, the government does not place any emphasis in this budget on where and how we will earn, how we will repay this cosmic debt in order to cover the list of these good works included in the 2022 budget. How we will develop our economies, we will promote economic growth and, therefore, budgetary revenue. How we will achieve that investors, including the stagnating investors of the Belarusian regime, can open their bank account in Latvia. How will we ensure that our entrepreneurs do not move to Lithuania or Estonia. And finally, how will we achieve that if a large international company comes from the US to the Baltic region, it chooses Latvia and not Lithuania. Colleagues! There's no money to spend. I understand... and I am listening to this budget debate, and listening to these good and sweet words that the coalition Members and Ministers are giving each other, it just seems that the Three Star Order cavalier will soon follow... It's the series. But, colleagues, this budget... with seemingly many good works, but with the huge millstone at the legs... We may be very burdened in the years to come, because the money that we owe will have to be paid back. If we can't make it, then... Nothing in this budget shows that we would really encourage us to make our own money in the budget. We're gonna have to give up something. We will have to give back what may be required by some lenders. I very much hope that they will not be our forests, that they will not be our ports or energy facilities. Prime Minister! I really hope that we will soon be able to redraft this budget and put more emphasis on how we will earn our economy, so that Latvia does not have a convincing last among the Baltic countries; so that the revenue of the budget will increase. That's why... Colleagues, not to waste! No matter how many good and necessary things for society are included in this budget, overall, this can prove very dangerous to us in the coming years. I call for this budget not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U114	Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U115	Hello, Latvian society! On the budget, I would like to give you my opinion. And I'll start with a little introduction - with a little quote that characterises this government... and described this government not only in 2021, but since its existence, it has begun to run. We remember very well that, when we were on television, this government leader Krišjānis Kariņš said: “We have as much money as we have never had.” However, these many money, it turns out, have not been enough for us to accept, as humanitarian aid today, the medical apparatus from Sweden, whose health care system our epidemiologists criticised in the very recent past. Today, in fact, the members of the coalition of power spoke in the same way as Krišjānis Kariņš a few years ago - about a lot of money. Krišjānis Kariņš himself did not talk about the budget today in essence; he talked about smart reindustrialisation... or what it's called. The only thing that shows the smart reindustrialisation is the kind of animal that will be put in the Garbon of Selia. These are the ceilings of what happened in Latvia in the business environment. We have had a “capital repairs” whose only contribution is insolvent credit institutions and people closed bank accounts, and entrepreneurs who leave Latvia. Now, people, families, families! - stand in line to move in one direction - away from your homeland. This budget, also in 2022, has been created without any view on the future, mechanically, like everyone else. The Latvian government, when drawing up this budget, reminds of a thief rabbit, who is afraid to sit and wait for her fate. No ambitions. The money has been redistributed to the benefit of the State by subtracting municipalities. There is now a clear reason for the administrative reform of sterilising the municipalities. The government is implementing a rapid policy of putting its head in the sand and pretending not to see an increase in the expenditure forecast for this winter season - the cost of energy - while other European Union countries are now dealing with the energy crisis in parallel with the Covid-19 crisis. Our heroes do not pay any attention to this either in the budget or in any other political action. Where is the abolition of the OIC or compensation from the Latvenergo dividend, which would make it possible to reduce the bills payable during the winter season? Where is the action to abolish the VAT rate on electricity and other activities? The interests of the education and health system have been sacrificed for concrete and bureaucracy. In today's circumstances, when the city of Riga - Riga! - with about half of Latvia's population, the priority of all summers was to steal the posts or to shift the cyclists on Caka Street... Today in the city of Riga... Riga 1st hospital is not ready to receive patients. It is not adapted and needs to be repaired to provide oxygen to the general population. If you do not believe it, you can check it. In today's circumstances other hospitals of Riga municipality actually... in words, perhaps they say that they are ready, but they are not ready to help. In today's circumstances, we see that the interests that are sacrificed... are funded by leveraged funds. The budget deficit is cosmic and continues to grow. That's what Karin's government is. It actually exists only at the expense of the debts of the people. 17 billion, which will only have to be returned to the people so that Karin can be a prime minister and that this power can continue to exist. The 2022 budget is a pre-election budget. Increased expenditure, as I said, on concrete and administrative capacity, but not on long-term matters. The only and crucial long-term thing that had to be invested in is education, but there's nothing in fact nothing! - not invested. Taking away the money from the municipalities - as I have already said - is, at all, a total madness in these circumstances, even from the point of view of pre-election, that is an insanity. And the deficit in the state budget is huge... without any plan to reduce it. It is a budget without a plan to increase budget revenue. Let me remind you that the deficit of next year - 2023, 2024 - will significantly exceed the ceiling set in the European Fiscal Pact - the Stability and Growth Pact, which will resume from 2023. It should also be noted that the budget is drawn up in the interests of coalitions and not in the interests of the people - only in the interest of this 51 vote, to the benefit of these heroes, but to leave the debts to the people. This is the last budget of this government. Well, that's what you can. Maybe the last time... To have this power. Meanwhile, the public debt - again I have to say what I have already mentioned - will be 17 billion. Meanwhile, people drive cars in Daugava or leave their homeland with tears in their eyes. And Kariņš allows us to talk here today about smart reindustrialisation, when a country with a population of 1.9 million - probably a little fewer people - has a complete collapse in the health care system... with a thousand patients in hospitals. What's he bigger about?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, He writes today in the PR media paid by the authorities that there was a division of some foreign services... Such articles are at the best of Lukashenko or - even worse! - in dictator's traditions: all other people are guilty - aliens, unvaccinated, populists - but not Kariņš. But the only one who has the right to sign is Karin! Due to Kariņš, Latvian residents drive cars in Daugava during a clear day. Because of the sword, the people of Latvia are leaving Latvia. And it will not be a lie that Latvian society is divided from abroad; Kariņš, who was born and raised in America, probably knows it very well. You're talking about an increase in the budget - on what account? At the expense of our children, who have no education? Or, at the expense of our parents, who do not have access to the healthcare system? At the expense of entrepreneurs who have to close business? You can't see either at the Cabinet of Ministers or in Old Town, where the Treasury and the Ministry of Finance are... Go through the Old Town! It looks like an apocalypse, it looks like apocalypse. We're no longer like anything. It is said openly about us that no other country that... ask some questions... that no other state officials want to get to some comparable category at all with Latvia. To be compared to Latvia would mean to that country humiliating itself. And Karin is responsible for this with his many money. He said there was a lot of money. A lot of money for stealing? 500 million, half a billion, this government invested as if in health care - as if! - But a hundred beds are obviously the only ones that have been bought for these 500 million. We have a collapse, a thousand people in the hospital. And 500 million have been stolen - just as all the other 3.5 billion borrowed have been stolen. Do not see poverty in Latvia - it means being completely, completely behind, completely, completely uneducated or being encamped by this power; only then can you not see the poverty that is in Latvia. And there is no blame for it, neither for the special services, nor for the anti-vaccine: and Karin is responsible for it, and Karin is responsible. The Saeima is already talking about the next Prime Minister being Pabrik. We need to restart the entire system so that those who are already in power are in power in a month, two, one year. Dear people, don't worry about it! They will be the same, they will change the entries on the business cards, and they will continue the same way. There has been an increase in the Ministry of Defence budget - during the Covid crisis! But I'll tell you two things. The first one is the Linezer Hospital. You can go watch - those who live near Riga - what it looks like. One of the richest ministries is the Ministry of Defence. At the time of his investment in health care, Pabrik spoke of field hospitals, even though Linezer could have restored the hospital. And the other thing. At those fences on Belarus... It turns out we have no limits. It turns out that an enemy can come to us like a walker. But in the meantime, in the Ministry of Agriculture... because the National Association keeps all this together... about 50 million will go to melution or where. There must be a huge crisis in agriculture. More than a pandemic. I'm not going to talk about grand pianos. And I'm not going to talk about Leonid Ilych Brezhniew's time... between the Stackey and the Pavilut... They concluded a memorandum with each other. Now nothing can be done without a memorandum. That's exactly the same thing. The latest news is that Paviluts personally is now calling pensioners. Brezhnev has also had such a picture - with personal calls for pensioners. And that is what must be said about this budget and this government: Kariņš is responsible for the destruction of Latvia, and the day will come when he will flee or be tried. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U116	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U117	Good evening, colleagues! 30 years ago and a little more, we, the people of my generation, in fighting and doing everything to restore Latvia's independence, were very confident that an educated society, based in science on both public administration and business decisions, independent and critical thinkers would be the foundation of democracy on which our country will develop. And we also understood very well that investment was needed to do this. And now that we have to look at the current situation and the budget for next year, I have to say... I myself have been very closely connected with the formation of several Latvian state budgets, I know this process very well; I know how this happens; I know the limits that have been placed in the budgeting process; I know the trends and the commitments that have been made in at least the last ten budgets; I know how they have developed in the Saeima and in the government. There is now one fundamental difference. The difference is that those fiscal disciplines... those restrictions... Let us not say that this is not the case, but they are fundamentally different, and that is also understandable, because we are living in a pandemic. As a rule, we have planted our neighbouring country in the context of the Estonian budget as a model in the sense that the Estonians had already spent little fuel years without a deficit. This year, we see that there has also been a budget deficit in Estonia, but it is proportionate - proportionate to expenditure. And that's the first thing I'd like to talk about. If we look at our budget deficit, then against revenue... The difference between revenue and expenditure is 16 per cent. Sixteen percent! This means that every sixth of the euro that we will spend on will not have a budget revenue... Take special care with If we look... against gross domestic product - this is less than five percent already mentioned today; it is significantly more than in all previous years, and this means that there is indeed a question of increasing public debt. Indeed, in a current situation where interest rates on international markets are very low or practically no, public debt service is very low, but, as several Members have already said today, in a situation where economic development becomes such that financial resources become required, these rates may change quite substantially. And then what we call cheap money today is that it will have to be financed anyway, and then that money will become much more expensive. And this can make it difficult for the state to exist in the long term. So that's the public debt that was mentioned today... these 17 billion - so it is half of the money earned in Latvia in the course of the year - gross domestic product money. So, practically half of what we earn within a year. This means that, for half a year, we should all work together to repay public debt. Of course, financial specialists will say that all countries are already... almost all countries live on debt and that this is not a problem in modern society, but quite without consequences, it is not. But the thing that hurts me most - in this budget... In view of the fact that there has been a significant increase in the availability of resources, there is an issue that has already been mentioned by several speakers today: it is a question of funding for education and science. You know that rules were incorporated into different laws at the time... One of them has also been the judgement of the Constitutional Court that... In this way, these rules should not be... that some part of the gross domestic product is divertable to that or another thing. But at one time... When the Research Act incorporated this percentage - 0.15 per cent of GDP - as the amount for which funding for science would have to be increased over the year, its provision was incorporated so that we gradually became one of its last or last place in the European Union in terms of funding... interest on GDP... gradually rising to at least one per cent of GDP. So, taking into account the figures that have been expressed here today... So it was about 10 million or 7.8 million, but... So this 0.15 per cent of gross domestic product, which is 34 billion next year... Note that this is 51 million. This means, therefore, that what is included in the law should be at least EUR 51 million in addition to research. In turn, to ensure that one per cent of gross domestic product is provided by research and science, there should be 340 million for this sector. We're quite far from these numbers. And so plant it as a great achievement in this, for example, whole free budget planning process? I cannot agree with this at all. I very much hope that these my remarks... To the second reading, we will be able to adjust something still, working together on the position and opposition, because really... I will repeat what I said at the beginning - I am convinced that an educated society, science-based state administration and also business decisions and independent and critical thinkers are the basis of Latvia as a democratic state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U118	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U119	Madam President, I will tell you honestly: after such a long and hot debate, I have nothing to say on behalf of the Commission. In the Commission, the draft law on the state budget for 2022 was approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U120	Okay, thank you. I hoped that the chairman of the Commission, Mr Bondara, would call on us to vote in favour of each draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U121	Well, yeah, that's what we're gonna have to do. So now we have to go back to the beginning - we have to vote on every bill. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Equity Shares and Corporate Governance”. Request for support at first reading This was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U122	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Equity Shares and Corporate Governance”! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U123	The deadline for submitting proposals is 5 p.m. on 26 October this year, and the session of the Saeima was held on 15 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U124	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 26 October this year, by 5 p.m. Consideration at the Saeima sitting on 15 November this year. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act’.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U125	Request to support the first reading draft law on Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act. This was supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U126	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U127	The deadline for submitting proposals is 26 October at 5 p.m., and the discussion at second reading at the sitting of the Saeima - 15 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U128	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 26 October this year, by 5 p.m. Consideration at the Saeima sitting on 15 November this year. Draft law ‘Amendment to Film Law’.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U129	Draft law “Amendment to Film Law”, first reading. In the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, the bill was supported. Request to support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U130	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Film Law! Please, let's vote! - 82, against - 3, refrains - not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U131	The deadline for submitting the proposals - 26 October at 17.00 this year and the discussion at second reading - 15 November this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U132	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 5 p.m. on 26 October this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting on 15 November this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance”.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U133	Within the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, the draft law "Amendment to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance" was examined and supported for the first reading. Request for support by the Saeima... Yes, support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U134	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on social services and social assistance. Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U135	The deadline for submitting proposals - 26 October this year at 17.00, and the discussion of the draft law at second reading - on 15 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U136	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 5 p.m. on 26 October this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting on 15 November this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U137	The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” was also approved for the first reading by the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission, therefore please support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U138	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 55, against - 33, abstaining. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U139	The deadline for submitting proposals is 5 p.m. on 26 October this year, and the session of the Saeima at second reading - 15 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U140	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 5 p.m. on 26 October this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting on 15 November this year. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on International Assistance’.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U141	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined the draft law "Amendments to the Law on International Assistance" and endorsed it for first reading. Request to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U142	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on International Assistance". Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U143	The deadline for submitting proposals - 26 October this year at 17.00 and the second reading - 15 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U144	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 5 p.m. on 26 October this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting on 15 November this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance”.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U145	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance” and supported it for its first reading. Request to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U146	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance” at first reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about 80, it's two, it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U147	The deadline for submitting proposals is 5 p.m. on 26 October this year. And second reading, on 15 November this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U148	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 5 p.m. on 26 October this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting on 15 November this year. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Competition Law’.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U149	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined the draft law ‘Amendments to the Competition Law’ and endorsed it for its first reading. Request to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U150	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Competition Law! Please, let's vote! No. - 63, no. - 22, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U151	The deadline for submitting proposals is 5 p.m. on 26 October this year. And consideration at the Saeima sitting, on 15 November this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U152	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 5 p.m. on 26 October this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting on 15 November this year. Draft law “Amendments to the law on maternity and sickness insurance”.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U153	The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” and has supported it for the first reading. Request to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U154	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance” at first reading! Please, let's vote! - 82, against - 3, refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U155	The deadline for submitting proposals is 5 p.m. on 26 October this year. And consideration by the Saeima - November 15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U156	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 5 p.m. on 26 October this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting on 15 November this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child”.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U157	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child” and has supported it for its first reading. Request to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U158	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child”! Please, let's vote! - 82, against - 3, refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U159	The deadline for submitting proposals is 5 p.m. on 26 October this year. And second reading, on 15 November this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U160	The deadline for proposals is 5 p.m. on 26 October this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting on 15 November this year. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Land Books Act’.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U161	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has also examined the draft law on amendments to the Land Books Act and supported it for its first reading. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U162	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Land Books Act! Please, let's vote! For - 64, for - 5, for - 14. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U163	The deadline for submitting proposals is 5 p.m. on 26 October this year. And second reading, on 15 November this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U164	The deadline for proposals is 5 p.m. on 26 October this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting on 15 November this year. Draft law “Amendments to the law “On Personal Income Tax””.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U165	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” and has supported it for the first reading. Request to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U166	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U167	The deadline for submitting proposals is 5 p.m. on 26 October this year. And the second reading at the Saeima, on 15 November this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U168	So the deadline for the proposals is at 5 p.m. on 26 October this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting on 15 November this year. Draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2022, 2023 and 2024.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U169	The budget and financial (tax) commission has examined and supported the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2022, 2023 and 2024. Request to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U170	Please call me! Let us vote on the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2022, 2023 and 2024 at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, 55, no, 36, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U171	The deadline for submitting proposals is 5 p.m. on 26 October this year. And consideration at the Saeima sitting, on 15 November this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U172	So the deadline for the proposals is at 5 p.m. on 26 October this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting on 15 November this year. And the bill “On the state budget for 2022”.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U173	Colleagues, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law “On the state budget for 2022” and has supported it for the first reading. Request to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U174	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law on the state budget for 2022 at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, 55, no, 36, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U175	The time limit for submitting tenders shall be 5 p.m. on 26 October this year. And the second reading at the Saeima, on 15 November this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U176	Thank you. So the deadline for the proposals is at 5 p.m. on 26 October this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting on 15 November this year. Colleagues, on the agenda - consideration of the draft decision. Draft decision ‘On the procedure (form) for submitting proposals for the State Budget Package 2022’. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U177	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! The draft decision on the procedure (form) for the submission of proposals for the State Budget Package 2022 was discussed by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Without debate, this draft decision was supported by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It is also a request to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-25-PT13-2309-U178	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the procedure (form) for submitting proposals for the national budget package of 2022”! Please, let's vote! For - 73, for - 5, for - 1. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, We have examined the agenda of the sitting. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. As a result, I closed my second remote emergency sitting on 25 October. Thank you for your work.
