ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U1	Good morning, Prime Minister. Good morning, honourable Members! Let us begin the first remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 11 March 2021. On the agenda – annual report by Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš The Saeima on the work done and planned by the Cabinet of Ministers. Name to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U2	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, Honourable Members, Ministers, colleagues! I've noticed that the night often seems darkest shortly before sunrise. That's how we do it with this pandemic... Tomorrow is the year since last March, we were forced to declare an emergency in relation to the Covid-19 pandemic. This pandemic has frozen the world, Europe and, of course, our country. In the spring, we were able to make very decisive and decisive decisions within a very short period of time, which pushed their first wave very quickly. Thus, in contrast to many other European countries, we did not experience any great growth in the spring, and throughout the summer we live in, in fact, without any significant restrictions. Unfortunately, when the autumn came, the situation changed. If, in the spring, we were all prepared to take very rapid and decisive decisions on how we could combat this pandemic, then in the autumn, neither experts nor the government and, I would like to say, neither the public were prepared together for the radical steps that we were prepared to take in the spring. So we had a moderate but persistent virus... an increase, an increase in morbidity throughout the autumn, and its peak occurred directly on the night of the Old Year, when the incidence was the highest. Since then, by also adopting tougher measures shortly before Christmas, we have been able to get this wave, which went moderately up, now also moderately down. If we compare with many countries in Europe... The first wave went, the second wave went, and now the third wave goes. Latvia did not. The first wave almost did not appear at all, the second has been moderate, and we are going down, and so far we have been able to avoid the third wave. This is the opposite, as it was, for example, in our southern neighbourhood in Lithuania... with a very sharp increase in morbidity. And also in our northern neighbourhood of Estonia, there is now a very sharp increase and the health care system is in a very, very critical state, so critical that we have also offered them help if they need it, with the treatment of co-patients. We have developed and observed a range of safety measures – two meters, wash our hands, wear face masks, ventilated rooms; we don't gather, we don't visit, and we work from home wherever possible. But we also have various types of restrictions. We had very heavy restrictions on passenger transport in the spring, and they are now too limited. We have schools closed in Latvia, we have shops closed everywhere... We have closed shops, restaurants, cafes, the entire service sector. And that's why it's because we're doing everything to save human lives. Our hospitals are still in a very difficult, critical state, unfortunately unable to provide a full range of services, as should be done. And I would say that thanks to the joint work... And I really want to say thank you not only to our doctors, the people of the front line, but to society as a whole... only thanks to joint efforts, joint efforts, we have had this wave to date in a relatively... very moderate. Unfortunately, this crisis has not yet ended for us. Disease rates are still high despite falling down. But if many people start to think that this is an endless situation, there is a way out of this situation, there is a way out of this crisis – and it is a vaccination. Vaccination is what we will be able to do together, because immunity can only be obtained in two ways: either by getting sick or by vaccinating. We know that there is a high risk of hospitalisation and, unfortunately, a high risk of mortality. The vaccination process has already begun in our country. It is true that this has started slowly and, to a large extent, because the officials of the Ministry of Health, when there was a first division of Pfizer across Europe, refused to make a proportional distribution to this particular producer and, out of more than 800,000 vaccines offered to us at the time, agreed to take less than 100 000. So we took only 11 percent of our offer. When the Cabinet learned about it, we changed the situation quickly and have re-purchased additional Pfizer vaccines, additional Modern vaccines. And now it is expected that in the second quarter of the year, which will start in April, not beyond three nine mountains, but after less than three weeks, that we have three months... we plan to get around two million doses of vaccines in our country. If we are plucking these vaccines, this means that more than half of our country's population would have received at least the first pot, and that means that, as of the beginning of July, we will be able to go back to a much more normal day than it is now. Of course, the key to this is these large vaccination centres, which... one another is already installed. They're not all installed yet. We're in government... Let us see a report from this so-called vaccination office at every government meeting so that we can be sure that these vaccination centres are ready. Our way out of the crisis is by vaccination. Vaccines are ordered from manufacturers, we are now waiting for them. The main thing is to be able to do all of them as well. And that people voluntarily and voluntarily apply to do so. Despite the pandemic, the rest of the government's work has continued. We are continuing to work on changes in the supervision of the financial sector. Administrative territorial reform... in the context of the last law in the Saeima goes through. We're... At third reading, you see in the Saeima, colleagues, the reform of higher education, which is very important for the further development of our country's education system, in fact for the further development of our economy. Of course, there is also work on improving the health system (the so-called hospital glue and changes in the wage system for medical staff). We adopted the national budget for 2021, that is this year, in time, and there we implemented significant tax reforms, including... reducing labour taxes. We are introducing a single tax account for companies. We increased the minimum wage and, of course, we significantly increased the salary for both doctors and teachers, even outside the context of the pandemic. But we also need to look to the future. The question is: how will we become a prosperous nation, a prosperous country? How can we achieve the desired level of prosperity that is coming closer to the Nordic countries? I believe that we can do so and achieve it through so-called smart reindustrialisation. Smart reindustrialisation – I will explain a little. To understand this, we need to get into the history of our country. We all know that our people were very early in reading and writing in a much greater proportion than it was elsewhere in Europe: in 1897, almost 20 years before national independence, we already had 95 percent... reading skills in Latvia. This is one of the best indicators. But what do many not know? At the same time, 40 percent of all residents of the country lived in cities. We were... and we are today... one early urbanized country, where most or... Not most, but very many people lived in cities before World War I. And what happened in these cities? Industrial development So in Latvia before the First World War... Many think that the proud houses of Riga... many have been built for trade. In fact, the great money and the great strength of the industry are the merit of the industry. We had already developed chemical industry, woodworking, metalworking, mechanical engineering, and the wagon industry. We worked in 1914 for 90 thousand people in various factories, many of which were very large – most of them using the latest technologies of the world and already in the avant-garde. This meant export capacity, and it meant greater prosperity for the people of the country. The First World War and the war of our independence were then inaugurated. This means – between 1915 and 1920, for five years, there was constantly military activity in Latvia, which resulted in much physical destruction of our country. We know that many factories were exported outside Latvia, and about one million people left the country... in the course of refugees... and in other ways, leaving the country at that time, fleeing hostilities. If there were two and a half million people before the war, in 1920, after the battles of independence, we had only one and a half million people left and, in fact, the industrial base was physically destroyed. But what did our ancestors do at that time? They built the entire industry again – metal building, mechanical engineering, textile industry, woodworking industry, food industry. We had companies like VEF at the time, which, of course, produced known radios and telephones; they also produced planes and the world's smallest camera at the time, Minox. We had a company Vairogs, which not only produced cars, including trucks, but also buses... and also light aircraft. Thus, already during our first independence, governments reindustrialized Latvia at that time, based on innovations and technologies, on the efficient use of capital. And all of this, of course, was also export-oriented, which means - money income in the Treasury, greater prosperity for the state population as a whole. And then the Second World War and several occupations, known to us all, took place, which lasted up to 30 years ago to restore our country's independence. Land nationalization took place. But it is very important to remember and understand that the industrial money earned in the Soviet Union was re-distributed to the centre of the USSR... could be said in the empire's budget. That money... If we exported products from Latvia to the rest of the Soviet Union at that time, then the Soviet Union also took a profit from it and exported it. In fact, it was not good for our country; it was precisely the consequences of the policy of the occupation power. Of course, at this time too, we had developed large companies – “Riga Vagon factory”, “Riga Bus Factory” ( “RAF”); we had “Alfa”, “Komutator” – giants of the Soviet war industry; “Liepėdos Metalurgs”, “ Valmiera Glass Fiber”, “VEF” also continued to work; “radiotechnics”, which had already started operating during the free country, continued to work; “Riga Electric Engineering Plant”... That's all... The so-called... The USSR economy, where the market was closed and these companies were not oriented... hadn't developed... To compete on the global market, they were designed to operate in a closed, scheduled economy within the Soviet Empire. Then came what we all expected as a nation for 50 years – an opportunity to restore our independence, which went hand in hand with the total collapse of the USSR, but when the USSR system collapsed, the obstacles between our country and the rest of the world also collapsed. And it turns out, unfortunately, that very many of these transformations during the USSR... much from free-country time... the modified companies were not competitive on the world market. One part of these companies collapsed completely, and today, still today, we can look at the large, empty bodies where production took place in the past. In other hulls where production took place in the past, today people buy and sell clothes and other goods, but no longer... is only perhaps the name has remained ‘Alfa’, but nothing has survived from the factory. But there are also, of course, companies whose management and new owners were able to move quickly and adapt to new circumstances, learned and became competitive on the world market. For us today in Latvia... can't say that we don't have an industry, we actually have an industry - an exportable industry - and that's what is now, in times of crisis, there's a country up until trade is closed. While bars, restaurants, cafes are closed, our exports continue to work and earn, and to drag the whole country up. Our most profitable export company is Micronet, a completely new company. Last year, its exports amounted to EUR 273 million, and only 251 workers were working there. This means more than one million euros per worker... export. We have many other companies, some of them as well... which have been transformed from older companies... already in the new look and in the new competitiveness: “Kronospan Riga” ( 173 million – export); “Latvijas Finieris” ( 162 million – export during the year); “LATRAPS”, which is the largest farmer’s cooperative, very competitive ( 105 million – export); “ Valmiera’s glass fibre” ( 90 million – export); “UPB” – a completely new company in Liepaja again ( 67 million – export in the last year); “Riga electric engineering plant”, which has transformed and survived all times of change (61 million – export); “Skonto Plan” (46 million – export). That list is very long and could be continued. Unfortunately, this list is not long enough and deep enough to build our common economy at the level of prosperity that we need. If we compare ourselves with other countries in Europe, then production as a percentage of gross domestic product... Latvia is in 30th place from 40 European countries. We have 10.39% of GDP, it is half as much as Germany, only one third of what Ireland is, and yet well below what is in Finland, Sweden and other countries. How to change this? In mid-February, a few weeks ago, we approved a long-established national industrialisation policy, the so-called NIP project. And I'll read it to you. I quote: "To achieve a structural change in the economy based on productivity growth in favour of the development of knowledge-intensive exports of goods and services." Like you, I read this three times, trying to really understand what these words mean. And then I figured out... At least, as I understand... and what we need to focus on. This is what I call smart reindustrialisation. If previously, a hundred years ago, 50 years ago, 30 years ago, the industry was mostly associated with very large companies, which perhaps spent a lot of energy, emits a lot of dirt, there people worked for black mouths, today's industry is a heavy industry, but we also have... e.g. ‘micronet’. This is an industry where highly educated people work for the good... as says, in good working conditions, indoors near computers, creating... including new chips. So that's all that's based on exports. Thus, exports are not just direct industries, but... We also have, for example, the export potential of education – students come to Latvia to study; we have the export potential of the medical sector – patients go to Latvia to carry out one or the other procedure and leave again. Of course, not to mention our tourism industry, which will come when the community... This phase of the pandemic crisis will have passed... and others. But if we look at our industry, then we don't have a very good picture right now. In particular, what the experts say – that they are not too productive or in its translation – we have an average wage in the country, and if we want our industry to raise the average wage, then, of course, the industry... must be above the average salary. Unfortunately, that is not so much. In manufacturing, the average wage is only 97 percent of the national average. In the food industry – almost, but only 99 percent. In the light industry, wages are on average only 64 of what is on average in the country. And even in woodworking, which is one of our big flagships – 95 percent... on average. There are some companies where there are very good wages, which are technologically highly developed, but the vast majority... It is very clear that they are not sufficiently technologically developed and wages are low and people's skills and requirements are low. There are, however, also industrial sectors that are above average. Chemical industry – 117 per cent, metal production and processing – 107 per cent, construction of machinery and equipment – 111 per cent, production of electronic and optical equipment – 122 per cent. And it is clear that these industries, where the average wage is above, are all clearly technologically advanced industries, which require a well-educated workforce. So we have a good place to grow here. How can we achieve this? What are the potential sources of investment? We have three different sources for this. The first is, of course, always the budget of our own country. But in addition to our public budget, we have two major sources of funding, both of which come from the European Union. One is the so-called multiannual budget, which over the next seven years is about eight billion, which is more than it was in the previous period; that is what we achieved. And then there is the new source of funding, which is directly linked to the pandemic crisis. That's... In English it is called the RRF Fund, in Latvian – the development and sustainability mechanism; there is about 10 billion euros. We're in government... and together with the coalition partners and with our social partners, we have developed this vision of the restraint and resilience mechanism and presented it to the European Union. Colleagues! I believe that this project can be improved. Now that we've been submitting... this National Industrialisation Policy Plan – NIP – has been adopted and approved, and we need to go through again, because the time we have, and see again whether the positions we intend to finance... whether the result will be reindustrialisation or reindustrialisation. If not, we should delete that position. If we do, we must leave that position. This is a work that we still have to do together, where we have the opportunity to improve this and use this money to serve our big goals. Colleagues, during the pandemic, we are all forced to think about how to overcome this crisis, how to protect human life and health. At this time, however, we must also look at this crisis for the future. We have to raise... Let us say, from the waves of the sea, from the waves we must rise up and look beyond. Our main goal is to build the prosperity of our country and our people. On the basis of the national industrialisation policy document that we have drawn up, I propose what has now been explained... very clear objectives – smart reindustrialisation of our country. That is what we all need to focus on together in the future. We need to grow wise. If we look at the history of the world – a very interesting trend turns out. In countries where there is no industry where there is no industry, it is not possible to export any significant amount – there is poverty. But in all countries... in the last 500 years... in the history of the world, watching... where the industry develops, where the technology develops, where exports grow, where wealth grows. Colleagues, let us not look at the examples of poor countries, let us look at the examples of rich countries! All of us can do that. May all of us also work together to achieve this goal! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U3	Thank Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš. Colleagues, let's start the debate. Member Ivars Zarins has applied in writing for the debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U4	Good morning, everybody! To give only five minutes to the debate on the work of the government - that is, of course, the apprehension of parliamentary democracy. Well, but – what music is, with such dances. Mr. Kariņš, while you are not up, I have a couple of useful suggestions for you. I know you listen to them and they're useful to you. That is, when I called on you to take the lead in becoming Prime Minister and to take responsibility from your ministers, you received and released Viņķelis. When I pointed out the need to investigate the purchase of vaccines, you drew the attention of KNAB to this. When you received your request for the validity of decisions made by your government in relation to the limitation of co-existence (this request will, by the way, be finally examined today at the third sitting of the Saeima; it is worth following this), only after a year's decision has been taken, until you have been revealed that government decisions on co-operation measures are taken without relevant data and analysis and that this is necessary. And that very day... A couple of hours after we submitted the signatures provided for in the Constitution, so that an extraordinary sitting of the Saeima would be convened immediately to decide on open government sittings in relation to the community, you – after a long hiding secret! – suddenly you announced that, in future, these government meetings will be open and the public will be able to understand the validity of your decisions. I could still go on. By the way, what you are offering to the whole country today is what I offer to your government... for your party 10 years back from the parliamentary tribunal, that is this idea of smart industrialisation. I could go on, remind you a lot more. But since time is not much – a couple of new, useful recommendations for you. In your report, on page 23, you mention the progress made in relation to the OIC. I quote: ‘New rules concerning OIC regulation and a more effective mechanism for monitoring and monitoring power plants as well as the cases in which those rights are lost... have been adopted.’ After you take decisions on the limitations of the community, the rhetoric is the question: Mr Kariņš, have you even read those rules yourself? I will briefly highlight to you some nuances about which you would hardly like to mention these rules in connection with the work done by your government, because these rules are not just a brother, they are another crime against Latvian society, which is now being committed by your government. And sooner or later someone will have to answer for it. And it is already a real violation of the law that is currently taking place. Contrary to the provisions of the law on the recovery of fraudulent aid, you have adopted rules providing for the possibility of recovering only a small part of the fraudulent aid, while the rest is to keep the fraudster for himself. Yes, yes – this is what you have done! Contrary to the rule laid down by law, your government has still not only adopted, nor has it even developed, a series of measures that are essential for the prevention of the OIC. For example, this concerns the prevention of overcompensation laid down by law, which should have been developed by 31 August last year. It still does not exist. The single technology cycle principle, which had to be implemented last year. If this is not the case, there is a great deal of fraud. These are the enti million that you are forcing the whole Latvian society to overpay, and this is due to the actions of your government, because your government continues to cover this area, already in clear violation of the law. Is that the fight against the OIC world promised to your constituents?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You're gonna say you didn't know that again?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You know, a request No. 53 which, in violation of the Satversme... Rally of the order of the Saeima, still pending. And you have not even been able to provide an answer to that. I'm going on about this. You know that the Ministry of Economics has covered the facts about the fraud of OIC's support in particular in large amounts for all of your government and continues to cover it. Either your Minister for Economics is simply incompetent and the OIC shephmans take him behind the nose as a little puppy, or it is political corruption in your government. Unfortunately, there are no other options here. Mr. Karins! If you do not go to the Minister for Economic Affairs in the near future and introduce clarity in this holding, I will appeal to the law enforcement authorities that they then bring the order into your holding, because these facts are so clear that someone will have to answer for them. And unlike your ministers, I am fulfilling my promises. So my first question is, how long do you need to get and ask... would I ask my ministers to do this? A week? Two? You know what the thinking of the little ones is different from that of the susceptible ones? Thumbs are looking for ways to escape risks, susceptible people think how to drive these risks. What must your government do to see this long-awaited sunrise that you are talking about rather than being in the dark night lying in the dark night? If we look at what your government has done, it is desperate and untaughtly trying...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U5	Thank you. Thank you. The speaking time is over. Member Krišjānis Feldmans on behalf of the new conservative group.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U6	Hello, dear colleagues! I would like to start by saying that, in order to bring about a lasting change, only beautiful plans are not enough. There is also a great deal of commitment and courage to defend ideas. For example, in the area of the rule of law in the last year... Over the past year, we have managed to achieve a significant breakthrough, which has also been appreciated by non-governmental organisations... in particular as regards measures potentially reducing corruption. For example, a new Prosecutor General was elected in an open and transparent competition, despite the great fight for this selection process. Soon – in the coming days or, let's say, in the course of a month – work should start for the new... The economic court, which I love to call the great corrupt court. And in order to strengthen this quality of court reasoning, it is planned to create a Academy of Justice, because Latvia needs a generation of young and professional judges. As regards the heritage of the 1990s, we have seen that Oligarch Aivars Lembergs is now in prison. I think it was a step that could speed up Latvia's disintegration from what happened in the 1990s... and, more generally, the country's stagnations over the last 30 years, especially in the area of prosperity. On the field of education. It has been possible to ensure that teachers' salaries are increasing at the speed it is set for them and could reach €900 next year as a so-called rate. And I think this rise in wages should continue in the years to come. There were also challenges in relation to the codex, and therefore one of the largest, if not the largest, purchases of smart devices in the history of Latvia had to be organised, and this was actually to be done during the shortage of smart devices. So there too, although you can always buy more, I think some progress was achieved. The Saeima has just accepted amendments to the University College Law at second reading. This reform is also progressing and I hope the Saeima will support this draft legislation in the near future at third reading. Meanwhile, doctoral scholarships have also grown significantly during this period. I look forward to the hockey championship. Hopefully it will be possible to arrange it in the appropriate quality in Riga, subject to all precautions. It's about traffic. It is very good that, with regard to the Rail Baltica project, it has finally come from the words to the works. Construction of the Riga station in the centre of Riga has started. I think many did not believe that it could ever start at all. Meanwhile – if we are talking about trains – the production of electric trains for Latvia has already started in the Czech Republic. I hope to see them soon on the Latvian tracks. New buses are expected on intercity routes in Latvia and are already circulating in cities. For example, new vehicles are in Liepaja, new trams are already in Daugavpils. New vehicles too... This move towards more efficient, greener vehicles is also being actively implemented. In spite of this, let us say, the desire for a whole and such a little reironomics, has nevertheless succeeded in getting families to receive this €500 allowance for every child during this pandemic. There, thank you to those who calculated the fiscal amount of this allowance and also actively supported it. Similarly, seniors, whose health must now be stabilised under conditions of lack of access, will receive an allowance of EUR 200, which the Saeima is likely to decide on shortly. All in all... Please extend the time for the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U7	The debate times are united. K Feldman. Thank you. So, overall, there are things that the government has managed to achieve despite this pandemic. That must be recognised. At the same time, things have happened... Let's say it's like in strains in many places. For example, the fact that government sittings, where community restrictions were decided, took place... For a very long time, let us say, they were secret, so the public and even members of the Saeima were denied the opportunity to take part in this process and exercise parliamentary control. And that's why this Prime Minister's decision was made to miss this vaccine... the purchase story, in particular, the non-purchase of vaccines. As they say, the more eyes, the better you can see any imperfections in the processes. Well, at the moment, it has improved, but it is still evident that, for example, no one is likely to be responsible for not buying vaccines because decisions were not made at formal meetings. It is also a little embarrassed by its envy and totality, especially from the Ministry of Finance, with regard to various benefits... mass payment of benefits in the country, seeing... So this desire to separate children, disabled people, seniors in some groups has been embarrassed... who is better, who is worse. I think it is also necessary to move away from this thinking with regard to future work. And so if we are talking about the reindustrialisation mentioned by the Prime Minister, I would be happy to see that this so-called renovation fund goes to factories, not to strengthen bureaucracy in public administration. In my opinion, this money is not being used to a sufficient extent right now. Thank you for your attention. Thank you. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U8	Dear colleagues, If public support has not been received in elections, then it is naive to wait for this, especially given that government ministers and individual parliamentary privileged Members are receiving pots against the Covid-19 out of order according to special lists, bypassing many other risk groups – doctors, educators, residents of the elderly. The list of priority groups was drawn up in the light of their supposedly important role in the management of the state. In my opinion, this is not only wrong, but also disrespectful. Tens of thousands of Latvians who have already applied for the pot cannot receive it, and it is not known when they will receive it. Vaccination of VIPs, pots for ministers and individual privileged Members – in my opinion it is not worthy of the highest state officials. At the same time, serious vaccination against Covid-19 in the country in general cannot be discussed. Valda chaos, which I think is due to a number of reasons. First. As yet, all citizens are not aware of which family doctors carry out vaccination against Covid-19, who do not. Secondly. Family doctors who receive the current vaccine dose mostly receive very small amounts of the vaccine. Another reason for the disorder is that people apply for the pot on manovaccina.lv, as well as many representatives of one family apply at different vaccination points. The virtual line is at all a huge cause of chaos. We think nothing was needed. It would have been better to make people, as usual with other vaccines, apply to their family doctor, and that's all. At present, due to the lack of vaccines, the pace is very, very slow, so the calls of politicians and officials to apply for vaccination are completely unnecessary, only creating unnecessary stress in society. This is a lack of consistency. Ministers do not work as a single team. This, in my opinion, shows that Mr Kariņš is not quite effective and not quite convincing in coordinating the work of the government. This is also reflected in very unprofessional and even ridiculous discussions in the Cabinet. A complex approach is still lacking to address the crisis. The various prohibitions and restrictions must be rationally justified and understandable to people. We, honourable colleagues, need a government that speaks an open, direct and honest language. It would be right to support professional and competent people who have a sense of what is in the sector and how to manage it properly, but unfortunately 13. This does not happen in the family. Therefore, I think it is pointless to change ministers if this system itself does not change. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U9	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U10	Hello, colleagues! As the Prime Minister said, the virus has had two waves and is expected to be the third wave of the outbreak. It can be said that last year has passed through a virus drawing, which highlights the government's ability to work in times of crisis. Here, too, the government, like the virus, has been working like a wave. At times, cooperation has been successful and fast; at times, it has not been so successful. Sometimes a fragmented government is minus, sometimes plus. It is at times when governments steal in the work of incomprehensible and disfellowshipped decisions, that there is a lack of consensus in the government that allows them to be corrected. For example, in the transport sector, after a long period of persuasion, we have been able to find a single common denominator. I have to say, it's better late than ever. And so, with every government's decision, we see that we can get a common denominator early or late. There is where it happens faster, there is where – later. I therefore wish the government and its leader to steer the ship convincingly and take decisions in good time so that it is too late to turn when the ship is approaching the rock. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U11	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U12	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Prime Minister, if you have yet to join this sitting! Listening to your speech seemed very strange to me... It could not be understood whether it was nostalgia, whether it wanted to return to the Soviet Union or something like that. But those times... and the industrial trends you remembered... Unfortunately, it is over. You will be disappointed at least in this direction. There is a completely different kind of economy and quite another development that is currently in place. And this can be verified, I think, by looking at the development scenarios and future perspectives of Liepaja city – what role was “Moldurgs” and what is the reality of today, and what is the development perspective of this city that... I think if it's going to work, it's going to beat the previous... Flower times of Liepaja Metalurgs. But this report... On this report, I would like to draw attention to things that do not appear there or that appear... A little... not presented in such a light. For example, these special tax regimes, which have, by their very nature, been abolished, and these... Now that these numbers of the shadow economy are appearing... In my opinion, at a time when we have imposed such restrictions on a very large part of society with regard to the possibility of working at all, these special tax regimes would be renewable. This was a major mistake for the government: to put an end, by nature, to these regimes last year. It also seems very strange to me to what is mentioned on page 75. There you say that different loans are being created to address the financial shortage of the municipality. It even makes a little bit of... humor, because at the same time... you did not record 100 million municipalities removed. And then... In principle, what we have already said in the budget debate was that the bad Saeima takes away 100 million and then the good government will come and give it back. And the most striking example is this grant of five million for 33 municipalities. I think it must be made clear that there will be a need for more... at least as much as possible for these 33 municipalities to survive in some way until the end of the year. That's not getting worse. The same thing about administrative territorial reform... Colleagues, from the opportunity to really create something... You haven't done that. And the currently proposed municipal law is just a summation of verses, nothing more. And in essence nothing is offered, and the level of lies has reached new orbits. Already right now, there is a lie to their government partners, telling each other about the zero-level municipalities and about the second-level municipalities, which are absolutely... At present, government documents show that none of this will happen. At the same time, the ATR... mentioned on page 75 about ATR... to reduce inequality – it is on the one hand, but on the other hand, we have a renewal fund... Restoring, the foundation of resilience, which... on the contrary – it increases inequality. I am very pleased that the European Commission has so harshly criticised today's offer, because it needs to be redrafted very significantly. This same government, which you personally run, Krisjani Karin, has prepared a very bad plan. Here, I would like to draw attention to the fact that not only this plan, but also the multiannual budget, should be seen from the prism of regional development; unfortunately, this is not being done at the moment. And it is the renewal fund that is the strongest proof that we will continue to strengthen the capital, as it has been done so far for very long time, but... thus increasing their inequality (where we are leaders in the European Union) between Riga and other trends in Latvia. Riga v Daugavpils – still three times the difference. That, in my opinion, is not acceptable. Finally, Prime Minister, I would like to address you on what is happening with vaccines at the moment. If we look at the previous experience, the Ministry of Health has failed several times, and also today your justice for not knowing that we refused, the state refused, the government refused the Pfizer vaccines, in my opinion it does not stand criticism, but it is not a story. I would ask you to combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U13	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U14	I will talk about what is happening at the moment: these mistakes are still being repeated. The Ministry of Health now makes it clear that, despite spending very large amounts of funds to stimulate the economy, a lot of budgets are spent... taxpayers' money, we're going on the cheapest principle. Yesterday's bright example is the current error. We are going to the cheapest offer for organising the distribution of vaccines. And, of course, when we get the cheapest offer, we get an objective result. Yesterday, this supplier has not met the first challenges, and there is no guarantee that this will not happen in the future either. But the mistakes made by this Ministry of Health will cost tens of hundreds of people their lives. Every mistake, every one day's delay, every one day when these people receive one vaccine per day, each such day costs tens of people their lives. That is unfortunately what these statistics are. This mistake that a number of vaccination offices have not received vaccines is, in my opinion, a strong indication that the Ministry of Health is not dealing with this. And something else. Finally involve the nature of the municipality! Gints Kaminskis, Head of the Latvian Municipal Union, has been walking around for a year, telling us that municipal managers have no information about what is happening in their municipality. Finally start sharing this information! Without municipalities, no excellent vaccination will be achieved. Only by involving municipalities working with them. Today, even one year later, municipalities still believe that they are not working with them. Start doing something and change the Ministry of Health if they fail to meet these obligations! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U15	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U16	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I may start with the statistics I have at my disposal. So the second census is 1925. Squirrel. At that time, Latgale had 539 682 inhabitants, or 29.25 percent of the total Latvian population. According to data from the Central Statistical Administration in 2020, in Latgale there were only 256 thousand people, i.e. only 13.4 percent. Thus, out of a third of the inhabitants in Latgale, the number has fallen to 13 percent. The situation is similar in Vidzeme. From 21.67 percent this population has decreased to 9.6 percent in 2020. It has grown enormously in Riga and Pierīga: if in 1925 there were 337 699 inhabitants in Riga, or 18.31 percent, now there are one million two thousand or 52.5 percent in Riga and Pierīga together. What do I mean by that? I want to say that this huge migration... These are a number of reasons. And the main cause is unequal regional development. Maybe I'll tell you a few more figures about what the Central Statistical Office has to do... So in Latgale – 40 percent of Latgale people are below the poverty risk threshold or two out of five Latgale people are below the poverty threshold. This is the highest rate of poverty in Latvia among the regions. A similar situation is found in Vidzeme, where 35 percent of the average farmers are below the poverty risk threshold. Mr. Kariņš did not mention with one word in his report that there is this problem – unequal regional development... poverty – among the inhabitants of the region and those of Riga, Pierīga. I have repeatedly said that this issue needs to be addressed urgently. There have been different options and proposals. The proposal to create administrative regions as an administrative territory (where Latgale, Vidzeme, Zemgale, Kurzeme and Riga together with Pierīga would be these administrative regions) is stuck. When the Prime Minister spoke about the billions coming from the European Union's structural funds, I did not hear that billions coming from the regions. How else can we develop the territory of our country? It seems to me that the Prime Minister has no idea what's happening in Latvia, all over the country, it's just about Riga, Pierīga, about industrialisation. Of course, we can emphasise this... I do not deny that, for example, in the Commission on Sustainable Development... In the presentation provided by the Ministry of Transport, it is planned that in Riga and Pierīga it is planned to invest EUR 50,000 billion in order to arrange the greening of the transport system of the Riga Metropolitan Area. This means that various types of projects will once again improve the quality of life and the standard of living of the inhabitants of Riga and Pierīga. However, I did not hear about how the Ministry of Transport intends to ensure transport movements, to improve the structure of roads in the regions. And... I am sorry, I would like an extra time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U17	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U18	Yeah, thank you. In this context, I would have proposed to reconsider whether these really structural funds, these enormous billions... Shouldn't all underground roads be arranged once throughout Latvia? Those billions... It would be about... identical to what is currently planned to invest in Riga. Imagine the effect that hard pavement roads would have on all over Latvia! Both the benefit of operating machines and the benefit of maintaining roads, but above all the benefit of students and pensioners access to service centres. This should be done. Then we can talk about a normal, developed country in the European Union, but in this situation, what do we want to achieve? When I speak to the Prime Minister about these proposals, with the Minister for Finance, they call them separatist ideas. I will say even the opposite: it is a colonial policy that is currently being applied to the regions if European structural funds are not invested directly in the regions... Planned, rational. You mentioned in your report on administrative territorial reform, but defaulted that the law on the creation of administrative regions was stuck and would hardly continue. It's not your priority. That's what we're thinking... I feel practically that this restored state of independence of Latvia is not meant for rural people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U19	Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U20	I ask you to unite the times.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U21	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U22	Mr Kariņš, before you talk about reindustrialisation, perhaps once in your life, take one decision in this crisis, in the history of the country's biggest crisis. You are not, Mr. Kariņš, Mr. Trijers, you are the Prime Minister of the Republic of Latvia. First, try to cope with the crisis and then pour out empty straw. And I'll explain why. Reindustrialisation, which you are talking about, is the same as structural reforms or capital repairs and success stories: it makes no sense to talk about reindustrialisation in Latvia for one simple reason, Mr. Kariņš – and it is a lack of labour. Latvia has developed a skilled workforce in the world. Does Mr. Kariņš know how many people are working age with appropriate qualifications in woodworking, metalworking or chemical industry in Latvia? Does Kariņš know, as Prime Minister, which is the largest position in the export balance of the Republic of Latvia? Does Kariņš know what proportion of Latvia's GDP is made by the Latvian forest and woodworking industry? If he knows all this, it would also be good to understand how he plans to reindustrialise the country on the basis of this knowledge. And that means there's no point in culting empty straw. Latvia needs a plan for reindustrialization. A good plan based on knowledge and competence. Mr. Karins doesn't have either. He has proved in this crisis that he has no plans and ideas at all; there are only some empty slogans, populist slogans. If he and his Cabinet have not been able to draw up a plan for managing the current crisis, it should not be hoped that he will be able to do something as big as reindustrialisation. It's just impossible, Karin can't. Omes, you know, he can't do it. He did not indicate what the plan was, what he would actually do, a bunch of empty straws. And this part of the reindustrialisation plan, No. 0 – not even 1 but 0! - There are people. We get ours out of the country in every way, people leave, companies... They're leaving, everybody's leaving. And he will reindustrialize the country! If he does not have plan item No. 0... We sabotage quality migration in every possible way, but there will be modern reindustrialisation. By the way, there are many prerequisites for Latvia to be an economically strong country, but Kariņš does not understand what basis it needs. It needs a cheap energy base, a skilled workforce, a raw material base. In energy, we have the OIC, which was introduced by Karin, by the way. He's talking about reindustrialisation, but he put in place the most expensive electricity for us. Qualified workforce has been developed around the world, we have cut down the raw material base so that... Rinkēvičs is cutting it more and more every day. If we have cut ourselves from Russia, which has all the resources with which we will build reindustrialisation? With those pyars of your government, with those who are immersed in the macaque, who will explain to the people how to shop? Are the paramedics of staphylococnocci who win these other purchases? Is the LIAA trapped in the thinking of shrubs? What are we going to do with that reindustrialisation, Mr. Kariņš? You can get up on the platform, tell us what is this your genius plan? Like Mr. Levite? Those who survive Christmas will not die – that's what it is? By the way, the bank account, Mr. Kariņš, is a luxury in Latvia. It's something special that you can open a bank account in Latvia, but there will be a modern rein... It's over there... I'm starting to... an empty declaration, another populism from Mr. Kariņš. There will be something modern here because of building a new prison, or because there will be Rail Baltica in a hundred years or when? Love those who watch and listen! You have to understand – Mr. Kariņš speaks in such a language as to try to address the less educated part of society. This is an example of Mr. Kariņš' current populism – to talk about empty dreams at a time when there is no proper foundation. We have not yet found a solution to the biggest crisis in Latvia's history, and you, society and Members, are offered a fairy tale, as are the capital repairs, success stories and all the reforms that they only hold... people are driven out of Latvia. If you believe it, you are all the third sons of your father, dear society, all! Then seek for yourselves the mountain of glass, where you put it, and all hope that there shall be a sunshine, and so shall you be saved: but this great will not be. This premiere won't save you. This Prime Minister has no plan for any day. This Prime Minister doesn't know anything. He does not even know how to dismiss education ministers, because reindustrialisation requires a skilled, therefore educated workforce. But in the item of the Minister of Education, we have Mrs. Emptyness. Dear Society, I admire your patience. And I admire the fact that there are some people who are able to listen in that whole void, what Mr. Karin says every time he opens his mouth. You don't see? Every day... he is unable to make any decision, and now he will be the driver for the big things? All the big things he has led have been marked by a minus sign for Latvia. All of them! OIK – with a minus sign! Then the capital... that's financial... this repair – or what it is called – with a minus sign! You can't transfer 20 euros... that you will not be placed in prison or will not require blood tests to be given 17 times! And then that's your plan, all that is... then you attract all those macaques... they are pyarse and the brain is washed from morning to evening for vaccination – all plan! The newspapers will print or how you go after milk to the store. You gotta throw it away. And I wonder about Mr. Levite. If Levit says it's his best student was...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U23	Thank you. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U24	Good afternoon, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I immediately ask you to bring together the times of the debate because (I am not hearable.) ... A lot.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U25	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U26	Thank you. Mr. Karin! I listened with great interest to your speech and I believe that you really really want to do better. Does it happen to you – it is, of course, another thing, but I can't look without great sympathy on those people who really want to do better. Mr Kariņš, I will be allowed to talk about only two big issues:, of course, the policy of the community and what is new today, what has been said, the smart reindustrialisation policy, in general, on development issues. To the community. Today, Mr Kariņš, one of your government's ministers, Artis Pabriks, gave an interview to the Independent Morning Avīze, in which he made a very effective diagnosis in my view, well, at least part of your government. He's talking... Mr Pabrika talks about the fundamentalists of the pandemic, who do not see things and processes in the context. From the interview one can conclude that he is talking about you, Mr. Kariņš. Let me illustrate an example of what this is meant by. Totally... Just a few days ago, your government decided to limit public transport to a maximum of 30 percent of public transport. The next day the mayor of Riga, Mr. Staķis, declares that this restriction is not feasible. This, of course, raises the question whether you were not able to consult Mr Staķis in good time, even with the executive power of Riga, which would tell you that the restrictions you adopted were not realistic. Let me, Mr. Karins, tell you... Well, a great professional secret – every expert, Mr. Kariņš, is an expert only in his narrow field. They look at the rest of the world through their assumptions, and their assumptions have very little to do with reality. So when you have an epidemiology expert to recommend something, then this expert believes that what he recommends is an elementary performance, it is enforceable, it will all be respected, there are no costs and so on. It must not be taken as a whole, Mr. Karin. It is also the work of the government – to see their wider context, their great picture. Is what one expert suggests realistic, with what costs and so on. So you... Unfortunately, it is a diagnosis – that your government does not see the big picture, does not see the context. And I'm not just saying that, Mr. Karin, this is what the Minister of your Government says. You're talking about the third wave, Mr. Kariņš, but to be honest, looking at the world news... In other countries, there is less talk about the third wave if at all. There is also a type of British virus, but in other countries there is no panic, no one is panicping. With us too, Mr. Karins, the hospitals are not overexposed. Only 24 per cent of the total number of beds is available for patients with Covida. Of those beds that are designed for cohabitees, only 62 percent are busy. And the dynamics of the last days are very positive. But you plan to make some completely different decisions. The salt derogation, Mr. Karin, for such a... has a connection with this fight against the community. Recently, the European Council recommended that you change your attitude and policy towards minorities. Your answer is good recommendations, but we will not change anything. It was the main message on all Russian-valuable portals, Mr. Kariņš, the main message. How do you think these people will be (we are talking about almost 40 percent of Latvia's population)... How will they treat you, your government? When you invite them to stay within the distance of two meters, wash your hands, call them to vaccinate, you think – they will do so? They think... Do you think they respect you and will follow your calls? I invite you to think about this, Mr. Karin! For vaccines. I quote you. The Ministry of Health's officials refused something... refused to buy something... He's done something. Mr. Karins, what is really in the government? Are these officials of the Ministry of Health who make these decisions? Why did you not follow this issue every week? And then you speak of those officials, but you are not even able to determine who these officials are. I understand from the last news that no one... Once again it is impossible to find the guilty. Development. You talked about smart industrialisation. It's very good that you're thinking about development, but I'm afraid you've opened the Pandora's box here. I will note that you spoke earlier about the green course. The green course, Mr Prime Minister, is very difficult to reconcile with industrialisation. I didn't hear much from you today, by the way, about the green course, but much of our money is for that. I can ask you: how good do your advisers study history? Because what you said makes you ask... Your comparisons with what was before the First World War raise a lot of questions, Mr. Kariņš. Before the First World War, Latvia was part of the Russian Empire and the Germans were de facto Latvian hosts, right? And why was industrialisation? Because the same Germany wanted to export to Russia. But it was difficult, there were high tariffs, they asked the question – where can we produce in Russia? The answer was obvious – in Latvia, because the Germans are the de facto hosts here. All its investments appeared here. Mr Kariņš, then it is a question: how it can be repeated today, when your government's policy is to build a wall against everything that is in the east. This took place before the First World War, thanks to our so-called geographical position and the constructive existence of several nations. That is all your government denies, Mr. Karin! Unfortunately, as fellow Members have observed, it is not time for Members to debate as widely as you do here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U27	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U28	Thank you. Mr. Karin! You said quite rightly that only society as a whole can overcome such a serious crisis. In order to achieve this, society needs to be united and solidarity is the key word. If there is no trust in the power of society, then the most correct decisions will not produce results, because people will simply fail to do so. Unlike many colleagues in the opposition, I do not believe that everything you have decided is wrong. You have made some very correct decisions, but they are simply not being carried out. And the main problem is the huge gap between power and society. There are several reasons for this. I will mention only one, but very important. A week ago, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe published a resolution on the implementation of the European Convention on Minorities in Latvia. Once again, the Council of Europe points out that Latvia's policy on integration of society and minorities... does not meet European standards in the area of law. Once again, the Council of Europe recalls that integration is a two-way street and that it is not enough to promote national language skills alone. Unification on the basis of the national language, namely the elimination of historical linguistic diversity, not only does it not meet European standards, it is simply ineffective and detrimental to the development of the country and society. Only a society in which everyone, regardless of gender, age, sexual orientation, ethnic origin or mother tongue, enjoys equal respect for the State can be economically successful. The Council of Europe stresses the need to promote effective participation of minorities, which is purely practical and economic. Latvia is a small state, and in order to overcome the crisis, it is necessary to ensure that the state administration functions objectively the most powerful, professional and motivated. But your government is built on another – ethnic – basis. It is made up of very different parties, and the main prerequisite is that they are national or Latvian. Let us speak openly, you are building a government with xenophobia, homophobia and populists, with anyone other than the Russians, and you are hoping that the ministers of xenophobia and populists will develop and implement a policy that is in line with today's European standards. Exclusion of a large part of society from public administration, lack of competition inevitably leads to the degradation and irresponsibility that we all see. You too, Mr. Karins, see that. It's hard for me to imagine that the old country of democracy today... In Europe's old democracy, public administration would not reflect the diversity of society as a whole, including at the highest level. But in Latvia – yes. And you base it on the concepts of statehood, which are based entirely on the Soviet theories, for example, the term "statehood" has been taken directly from Stalin's works and translated from Russian, because in English the term simply does not exist. The Russian-speaking people of Latvia have proved their loyalty to Latvia on several occasions, they have fully learned and used the state language of their working age. But data shows that they still do not have equal opportunities to participate in public administration. The public sector employs 23 percent of Latvians and only about 12 percent of minorities. I ask you to combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U29	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U30	How can trust in your government if people see that they have not been treated as equal? For example, a demonstration refusal to speak Russian, even giving interviews to public media programmes in Russian. Well, of course, from you, or from other members of the government, who simply do not speak Russian, no one will ask for it, it is quite understandable, but when, for example, the head of the vaccination office, about whom it is known that she speaks Russian perfectly, speaks only Latvian, either, do you really think that it can then be compensated? Any PR specialist will say that this is an error that can no longer be corrected, that media... that the content of the media actually produced in Latvia has in principle been destroyed because we stopped it purely by political decisions and actually gave their huge audience to Russian propaganda. And education. Unfortunately, the very carefully designed system of binary education is being completely destroyed. And what problems all parents now face, we know well, maybe you don't... but we, as Members, are always getting information about how difficult the parents who have to work are to work, to work at a distance, and to study with their children. It is much more difficult for children who learn a language that is not their mother tongue or their family language. We still talk a lot about promoting the state language, but do you know how many schools simply do not have Latvian teachers? And I am not talking about the professional level of these teachers and the quality of the methodology. So... I could count a lot, but in conclusion, there is a very important moment of how we perceive recommendations and friendly criticism from allies. On the same day that the Council of Europe resolution was published, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs presented its press release. I am very sorry that it is difficult to name this press release differently from false news, misinformation. I'm just recommending anyone to read it. ‘ United in diversity’ is the slogan of today’s Europe, and that is what is needed. This unity in diversity is the only way to successfully overcome the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U31	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U32	Dear colleagues, Listening to Mr Kariņš' speech, I really felt that there was one mistake in his speech, that is, when Mr Kariņš said: 'Let us serve the big goals,' I think that 'targets' should have been 'hosts'. Here we are faced with a situation where a person has been given a text and a new word for "reindustrialisation", which we have been hearing for several days in a row. And with this word, different games and fantasies are being developed. Of course, we can't hear the truth. We do not hear what Mr. Karin would really like to tell us if it were fair. We understand that a person who has no understanding of the development of Latvian industrialization may not know, for example, that Mikrotik is not a new Latvian company. It was created in 1996. Such detailed details reveal that a person who is absolutely not interested in the development of Latvia simply automatically tells the prepared speech and prepared materials. Of course, it was very interesting for us to listen to the pages of Latvia's history, but that is not what we expected from the Head of Government. What we see is, in fact, the desire to hide the fire behind some form of entertainment. And here is a very good comparison of the really respected Mr. Butan. Yes, we are very often comparing the government with the ship, and we have had a variety of ships – a bowl, agile, beautiful, perhaps slippery – but we all understand that if we compare the government of Mr Kariņš with the ship, then the only name that comes to mind is “Titanic”, nothing else. And this “titanic” has unfortunately been slipping for several months, but what the members of the government have taken care of, especially if we are talking about Mr. Kariņš and perhaps those of his secret advisors who produce various proposals every week – you have taken care of the animation of this “titanic”, so you are trying to really increase this society (the sound break.) ... development. So you want to increase the company... You want to invest in the development of a company's folklore, which is of course already very, very significant, given what you are offering every week. We're used to it. On Tuesdays we know that we have to be afraid of something; on Thursdays there is already a judgment – who will be. Of course, of your last week's proposals, we see that, in fact, probably the scenario that has been given you does not coincide a little with the figures that are deadly falling all the time down. And that's why these decisions, which were made last week and which will also be adopted today, will be quite strange to the background of the disease drop, even though you feel so confident about the Latvian medical system that you are ready to offer assistance to Estonia. And that means that we are confident that we will also not stick our Estonian brothers and sisters to the community in our hospitals and do no harm to them. It's really very optimistic! But what we see is really inconsistency with the scenario, complete despair, and now this street of reindustrialisation clearly indicates that Mr Kariņš is not interested in people, he wants us all in the livestock cars with vaccination passports somewhere to leave. Here there will be cheap labour and will build and build all kinds of chemical industry and so on. It's the picture that Karin has given him. Come and read this to all of these sheep. Read to know who is waiting for them to just have fun. Thank you for real entertainment! But maybe you could close the Cabinet for a week, so that we can rest a little on the jokes you make. A little bit. Just don't have the power to really listen to those miracles anymore, your fantasy is inexhaustible. Please give a week of rest to people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U33	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U34	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear Prime Minister, Colleagues! Mr Kariņš used several metaphors and political comparisons in his presentation. But let me tell you a sad number. Last year, Latvia's external trade deficit was around two billion euros. This negative balance between exports and imports was precisely due to errors in your governments, i.e. data from the Financial Sector Association show that since the end of 2015 the value of Latvian banks' assets has decreased by 23 percent or €7.38 billion. If we count it, it'll really be the same number as... number... which Latvia borrowed from the European Union and the financial market. It crowns your so-called financial system's capital repairs. Thanks to the recommendations of some services outside the European Union, Latvia destroyed its entire economic sector, and as the President of the Bank of Latvia, Mr Kazak, speaks today, we are no longer a bridge between the east and the west. Of course, I also like the concept of reindustrialisation, but let's remember the sad fate of Latvian metallurgy... which was unfortunately not promoted by your government. It is certainly very good that there are technology companies in Latvia with 200 employees, but let us also remember that only recently a large food company ceased operating in Latvia. It was a simple bakery, which belongs, by the way, to the capital of the same North Europe, to which you proposed all of us to follow. And so the Nordic country appreciated your actions, Mr. Kariņš, by the government. I think your time is over. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U35	Dear colleagues, So it's time for a break. Before the break, notifications. Today at 12:35 is a meeting of the Fraction Council, which takes place partly remotely. So all its members have been sent out. This is the case in the Red Hall of the Saeima, but it is also partly possible to connect. And another statement. Dear colleagues, Recently, on 5 March, our fellow Member Uldis Budriks celebrated the round anniversary, and we congratulate him. Colleagues, that's the registration of Members. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U36	Dear Members, Honourable Members! Mr. Prime Minister! We shall continue to discuss the agenda of the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda – annual report by Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš The Saeima on the work done and planned by the Cabinet of Ministers. We are continuing the debate on the report. Name of Member Evia Papulei. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Colleagues! And if you listen, also the Prime Minister and perhaps the Ministers and the Ministers! I will now really talk about one subject - education - because science actually makes no sense in the report. Space and defence are mentioned there, and one small, small research programme. This shows, of course, the government's attitude towards science, especially at the moment, in the situation of the community, little money for the activities of scientists, where Latvia could contribute. If we look at the report, then an interesting and perhaps significant reference seems to the Prime Minister’s introductory speech to the percentage of reading skills ever before, in one of the centuries. And perhaps because it is mentioned as 90 percent, support in education is measured as small and very small. It shows attitude. It should be said that data on literacy learning of the 21st century are less bright and should be improved in practice. But what, then, is the report that we are currently being presented by the Coordination Centre for the Reconnaissances, separating it from the Prime Minister's introductory speech today? We see two topics in education – the community and digitalisation, or support for modern technologies, so that remote learning can take place. And what do we see? 19.7 million... and only 19.7 million of them, of which slightly more than six million have been pre-schooled, have been given in support of educators, various forms of support, both in special education and general education, and also in advice. This support, I mention, has not been received (at least by the report) by vocational education teachers and higher education educators. But for pre-schools – 6.3, although we know that this group of teachers works all the time, also within the limits set, but pre-school educational institutions are open and... teachers work. I will ask you to unite the times.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U38	The speaking times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U39	Thank you. The second subject, which has already been mentioned by some of my fellow Members, is support for the provision of modern technologies to enable remote learning to take place. Well, a total of €1.3 million, for which 6620 smart devices and 56 licences have been purchased according to the data and figures mentioned at this point in the report. I will not mention that the municipalities have received computers without the provision of licences, and not all licences are available free of charge. That means what an ambitious procurement can be said about right now? And what is the government's provision for distance learning now? Once again, the report does not refer to figures to really clarify what has been done, because the total amounts for the total support of educators are mentioned, but it does not mention how each educator (at least within the limits) has received this support, and how much more generally the educator who is currently working in different fields of education has received this support. Numbers... 19.7 million are, of course, relatively few, knowing that teachers work without losing their jobs and do not receive subsidies or idolatry benefits. If we look at what the report is still talking about, then I think that the period between 10 November and 26 November last year, when 66 online schools took place, including 10 pre-schools, about how teachers feel. It has been mentioned that guidelines have been drawn up, no figures have been mentioned... that the materials have been prepared, no specific figures have been given. Something has been mentioned, so something is happening, but exactly what is not shown in the report. No figures. It has been mentioned that e-Environment is being prepared and started. What amount will be allocated to it, and what benefits will it bring? The report does not show this. This could be continued, but a particular area of higher education seems interesting, where a new governance model is being developed. It will obviously make a big contribution and a leap to reindustrialisation, as higher education will certainly influence it. The doctoral scholarships are mentioned... or the increase in grants, but this is the budget execution. This was decided in the budget and should be done. Of course, the amounts have not been indicated. It seems most important that the Prime Minister's speech today – the introductory statement – should also be the last sentence of the report in the education section. I would like to quote: “Ensure that adult workers are involved in the distance learning process for digital skills development in various sectors of the economy.” It is time to link it significantly to the said reindustrialisation, to how it will be done. Again, these are just words, phrases, but nothing more. To be honest, it is probably impossible to blame the preparers of the report of the Coordination Centre for the Perresors because, in fact, the activities of the report have little connection to reality and little connection to the situation of the community really real solution. Why? Well, we know that we have repeatedly asked, asked and asked Mr. Kariņš in various ways – do you have a proper community response plan? And at this point in time, it is clear that the sections of the report show that there is no and no consistency between such plans and activities in education. It is also unclear what further support... If e-environment has already been mentioned, it was possible to mention further support to educators, once again emphasising pre-school educators, who are working on higher education, where major changes are expected, but the praising of empty norms such as the contribution to reindustrialisation seems to be natural to the current government. Empty phrases... The governance model will be implemented through the Structural Funds to provide wages for the people of the Soviets – it will be reindustrialisation, it will be a contribution to higher education, vocational education and science? It is possible that history can be rewritten, and we know that one large country is doing this at the moment, but it is unlikely that it will help. I very much hope that the Prime Minister's history excursion will not be included in standard content of competences or negotiations in vebinaries about the history of Latvia and, if God does not give it, the world. I hope...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U40	Mrs. Papule, time. In the next debate, the Minister for the Interior, Sandis Ģirgens. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U41	Could you give me the maximum time?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U42	The times of your debate are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U43	Highly honored residents of Latvia! Madam President and Members of the Saeima. I would like to present to you the work and achievements of the Ministry of the Interior between March 2020 and today. Of course, let us remember first of all that the development of the country is based on the concern of Latvian entrepreneurs, the rule of law, because in our country, where there is a small, open economy, there must be a small, effective public administration that serves the population, not... entrepreneurs, and vice versa. So I wanted to say that we need to do everything to be able to provide quality services to our citizens and businesses. As regards the work done by the Ministry of the Interior, it should be noted that the Ministry of the Interior has led and adopted the National Civil Protection Plan, which was not adopted for several years. And no country can exist and overcome the crisis without a civil protection plan. Thank you very much to the government and the services that have developed and adopted this plan. Next. We have also implemented FATF recommendations, a plan has been adopted that helps to combat the proceeds of crime. And the results of the work in pre-trial criminal proceedings are obvious. The financial intelligence service last year and this year, taken together, has frozen... and is also suitable for arrests of property for possible criminally acquired funds in the amount of approximately 450 million euros, which can be confiscated and transferred to the state for the benefit of the court – the state budget, where respectively are directed to education, health care and other functions. However, call for an active Financial and Capital Market Commission to work with the financial sector so that entrepreneurs do not impose unnecessary administrative burdens on credit institutions, so that our entrepreneurs do not find different misunderstandings, problems with opening bank accounts with credit institutions, so that banks do not work at zero risk and do not unduly burden our entrepreneurs with bureaucratic procedures. And I would call for this system to be put in place so that business in Latvia can be carried out more efficiently and better than in neighbouring countries. What we do and do not agree with is that, in fact, our entrepreneurs need to look in the direction of the neighbouring countries. And the question here would be how to help the State Revenue Service to improve the quality of services... which is of weight. I mean, as I also said in my introductory speech, our country and our services... the national apparatus must work for the benefit of society and business and provide quality services without unnecessary red tape. I would also like to point out that the home sector has begun and implemented structural reforms of the European Union in its services, the modernisation of the services - the State Police, the State Fire and Rescue Service and the State Border Guard - is under way. Special attention is paid to the State Police. We review the functions so that they do not duplicate, there are personnel rotations. And, as I said, it takes time for change because, over the years, the necessary reforms to improve the quality of the work of the law enforcement authorities have not been given much attention. Thus, the development of the country is based not only on entrepreneurs, quality education, health services, but also on a strong emphasis on reducing corruption and crime. We also see that this is possible if we invest in fact in our law enforcement bodies. The Ministry of the Interior has developed and is already in the process of harmonising the new concept of remuneration. Its aim is to achieve high-quality staffing and to motivate existing staff. We would like to equalise remuneration with both the defence restaurant and the prosecutor's office. And this issue can no longer be postponed, Latvia cannot dampen corruption risks – it slows down the pace of development of the country. It should also be borne in mind that the government must decide today on the allocation of funds for the maintenance of the infrastructure of the Ministry of the Interior. The first phase of the budget would be EUR 27.3 million. We are ready to build seven new D-category depots in the regions of Latvia and arrange all the police stations of Riga for this money, and I would even say that they are (Not heard.) ... Therefore, thank you very much for this first support. We are working on the introduction of new technologies. The Information Centre of the Ministry of the Interior will be connected to the European Union databases, the creation of 112 call center is in process, the Information System Covidpass.lv, which reduces virus import risks, the State Fire and Rescue Service has purchased drones, has been developed. This year we will present the new forms of border guards and fire-fighters. The Ministry of the Interior strengthens the internal borders of the country with Lithuania and Estonia in order to reduce cross-border crime such as smuggling, car theft. Finally. I would like to conclude by saying that it is... Some historical processes are also taking place: in the near future, I will present to the government my idea of the renewal of the State Police Academy. I believe that this initiative is feasible, we have enough resources in the future period of the funds and we need to renew the Latvian Police Academy. So thank you very much. I hope that I have reported in such a consolidated way the small number that we have done during this period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U44	Thank you. The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U45	Please combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U46	Both speaking times are combined.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U47	Hello, colleagues! Good afternoon, Prime Minister Kariņš! I am very sorry that your speech today reminded you more of a high school-level lecture on industrialisation in social science. I am very sorry that today, on 11 March 2021, when 25 days are left until the end of the emergency, you did not tell us... you did not tell the people of Latvia how your government is fighting the pandemic, how the economic crisis is overcome and how national vaccination is implemented in Latvia. On the last point, I could inform you that the number of vaccinated people in Latvia was 60,000 for Friday last week, 5 March. This is three percent of the Latvian population. In addition, it was noted that the 60,000 people were not all receiving two pots. This means that in reality the number of vaccinees in Latvia is below one percent. When this information was received by Estonian and Lithuanian colleagues who participated in the families of the Baltic Assembly (A sound break.) ... in committee sitting, to be honest, they were very, very surprised. At least its faces – those of Estonian and Lithuanian – were very round. I think it's your government's shame. In fact, this is the main result of your government. The whole office is... Our Cabinet of Ministers, under your direction, is now reminding you of a bucket that is not valid for nothing, but to throw away is a pity. Both the systemic approach to crisis management and the professional logic and consistency of management disappear as the abyss in this entire bucket. Even in your report today, there was an absolute lack of information on how the social dimension of this crisis is being overcome. What was done and what could be mistakes, because a successful leader always criticises himself first and foremost. Unfortunately, this criticism did not exist today. And I'll try to do it for you. I would like to inform you that one of your members of the Cabinet of Ministers, namely the Minister for Welfare, received an open letter from a large group of parents on 19 February this year, where desperate mothers told about their children, who they still provide (they are university students under the age of 20), but who, under our legislation, are no longer entitled to family benefits. Unfortunately, the EUR 500 supplement to the family allowance provides that only those who receive the family allowance receive it. But the group of these young people, their parents, no longer receives this family benefit. In accordance with our legislation, they also do not receive the money provided for in the law of the Maintenance Guarantee Fund. And it happens that this part of the family (it is a very large group) is now without any support at all. Therefore, your statements, the respectable position that this benefit is for every child, are, forgive me, a clear lie. Not for each child, but only for those children receiving the benefit in question. The Minister for Welfare has therefore been informed about this on 19 February. There is still no answer, no amendment to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection has still not been submitted. I have informed you that today I will table this amendment when we look at the EUR 200 premium for every pensioner and disabled person, and I will claim that it is also a lie, because this EUR 200 will not be received by all pensioners or by all disabled people. There will be a separate explanation for this. Also, Mr Kariņš, we would like to inform you that the same Minister for Welfare received a letter from Kristīne Giorenko, who is his seven-year-old daughter with disabilities, on 28 February this year. It is the woman who dared not give up her child in the care centre and is fighting for her own health and sitting at home and performing in principle the state function of caring for the disabled child. Until now, Kristīne received about 300 euros per month for her assistant's work, carefully completing all questionnaires with all hours. Have you been informed, please, by the Minister for Welfare, that all disabled children's assistants are currently receiving twice as much pay as they did last summer? Because there is some incomprehensible formula that prevents these children's assistants from getting at least such money to support their children. Christine is totally desperate. Yes, she does not know how to write snuff letters, prepare snuff speeches, she writes as she can, but unfortunately also Kristīne's shout will pass through your passing bucket. Because your ministers, despite the fact that these sittings have already been opened thanks to the pressure of the opposition, do not bring all the information to you, and that is your main problem. I call you to throw through the buckets, honestly to say that you are not over. Try, please, to create a professional team that will really overcome the crisis and pandemic in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U48	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U49	Please bring me together the speaking times.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U50	Both speaking times are combined.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U51	Thank you. Hello, colleagues! And the first note – today was mentioned as a government ship. To be honest, the government is only a crew of a ship called “the Republic of Latvia”, which runs the ship according to the task of the ship owner – the people of Latvia. Today, I would like to thank Mr Kariņš for his historical tour; it is indeed very important not only to cry for historical pain, but also to avoid repeating historical errors. So last year wasn't a success story... year of story, more talk about what should be done. I would also like to say that here are three points that should be taken into account. The first was reindustrialisation. Indeed, this is important, but it should be remembered that industrialisation in Latvia appeared when the great trade route between the east and the west formed and the industry started to grow on the road. Thus, when we are talking about reindustrialisation, there are several factors, but the two are the main ones. One is how the structure of consumption has changed and the other is how hard competition will be in the selected areas, because if this is not allowed... no relevant analysis and evaluation has been carried out, and the funds invested can flow through the air. The second moment is talking about consumption. Food is the only stable form of consumption. It seems to me that we are very lax about agriculture in Latvia as such, because regardless of the types of food, food as a basis – its need will only increase. It therefore seems to me that if we are talking about development, it would also be important to think about how to develop and how to make the agricultural sector even more competitive. Third. We are living in a crisis situation, and not only a crisis situation, but normal development in general depends on the unity of society. This was also talked about today, but I think it is very important that the government realises that it is one of the main instruments, if not the main instrument, for achieving positive changes in all areas, especially in overcoming the crisis, because without a cohesive society, the results are not expected. So it's the task of number one, which should not only talk about, but also do something for the sake of the thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U52	We are continuing the debate. The name of the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavlut.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U53	Hello, honourable Member of the Speaker of the Saeima! Mr. Prime Minister! Dear Members, honourable Members... Colleagues! A little over two months have passed since I am not your colleague on a daily basis. And today, I would like to outline a little the issues with which the most daily work is done. But before I do this, I would like to thank all the people of Latvia, the whole society of Latvia for their joint efforts to combat the Covid-19 pandemic throughout the last year. A year later, since this community era in Latvia began with the first established disease... early March last year. And the battle against the virus takes place everywhere in everyday life, in every workplace, in every family, in every house, in every city, not only in hospitals where there is a front line, not only in police and bus driver, and in the service spheres of people's work, of course, also in the government. Mr Dombrovskis, in today's debate, ironised that he could not see the third wave, or something like that, he said. I think this irony is out of place. We can truly be grateful to our own prudent action, to all those people who respect security measures do not come into contact with others... for households, properly wear personal protective equipment, cooperate with government services in this pandemic... respect for the fact that we have managed to prevent the increase in disease by common efforts so far. Examples do not need to be searched far. If we look right next to us, to our neighbours in Estonia, who had a lower level of disease than we had a few weeks ago, today Estonia is one of the first places in Europe and in the world with 1957 cases in 24 hours, with an cumulative 14 days figure of 1453. There are 639 patients in Estonian hospitals today, and this situation is likely to get worse in Estonian hospitals. We have managed to prevent this by working together, we have had quite a few months now. Our illness slows down, but it decreases. We would probably like this to happen more quickly, but there has also been a reduction in disease in the last 24 hours. Our... This number of 14 days per 100 thousand is 420... opposite 429 – yesterday. In Latvian hospitals today there are 706 people with co-morbidity, 77 of whom are seriously ill. It is still very, very much. It's a lot too much for us to take steps towards and ease, normalize the sector's work more than it has done so far. The government has decided that in these circumstances, when Latvia has more than doubled the number of co-positive cases with new types of... with this type of British virus B117, which is more contagious and dangerous than the virus known in Latvia so far... In this situation, it is the responsibility of the government to take steps... Reasonably reinforce the requirements in the most risky areas – workplaces, where people now... particularly frequent illness; also reinforce requirements for compliance with self- isolation and quarantine and other measures so that the disease situation in Latvia does not return to growth. What this can lead us to do is see us very well in the case of Estonia. We have to take into account that co-morbidity will not end soon, we have to take into account the so-called long co-cave, with the fact that when the virus changes, by mouth we may have to... After this first massive voluntary vaccination, it is possible that further vaccination with an improved vaccine, similar to influenza virus, will be carried out in the future. This means that we will need to take certain precautions for a long time. We will probably not be able to breathe in real breath before summer. Coby will have had a long effect... long, severe, accumulated consequences in other areas of disease – the exacerbations of chronic diseases that we will deal with for a long time, because unfortunately, Latvia's health care cannot provide a whole range of essential health services. They will also need rehabilitation, and we work together on these measures in the government.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U54	Minister, time. You got time combined.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U55	Thank you. I will obviously tell you more about vaccination at other sittings of the Saeima, in various commissions. Currently, I can report that 88 thousand doses have been vaccinated, including at least one dose has already been received by 70,000 people in Latvia. And our goal, on which we work, both for mass vaccination and for others... we're going to reach... one million 200 inhabitants of Latvia, or 70 percent of the adult population, should be vaccinated by the end of August. We have created a large portfolio of vaccines. Since I entered my post, we have bought additional vaccines at every opportunity, and we now have more than seven million doses. The mistakes made in the past with regard to the purchase of vaccines have already been the subject of two service tests, one result available, and the other one we will finish at the end of March. And these results will also be available to you. We are working closely with the municipalities, and I would ask Mr Valaiņa to contact Mr Kaminska and ask him. Mr Kaminska confirmed at the government meeting that the municipalities are in close contact with the vaccination office and are working together on the vaccination process. The Coby does not remove other reforms in the sector. The introduction of the new wage model, the issue of hospital rates (we are planning to see them at the next Tuesday meeting of the government), improvements in the field of pharmaceuticals to make medicines cheaper and more accessible, investment in infrastructure and modern treatment methods. Unfortunately, the transformation of inherited, largely inactive eHealth is one of the issues... on my desk. We will transform it into an open, modern digital health system; the necessary resources are reserved. We will work on an oncology plan, improvement of preferential care, continued improvements in mental health, improvement of residency conditions and other issues. Thank you all once again for the joint efforts to fight the Covid-19. This time will come to an end, but now we have a common task – to prevent the third wave, to reduce the morbidity so that we can normalize the work of the industries... In schools, shops, theatres, museums... according to long-term comma conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U56	Thank you. The name of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Arthur Tom Pleš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U57	Dear Member of the Speaker of the Saeima. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Honourable Members and Members of the Saeima! At the beginning of my speech too, I will ask you to combine the two speaking times.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U58	The speaking times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U59	As regards the main work done and the work done at the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development in 2020, I would like to highlight the most important. I would first like to highlight the administrative territorial reform that has now entered the finish line. This reform was a long-standing decision based on studies, opinions and recommendations of different institutions and international organisations. It will certainly improve the quality of services provided to citizens, regardless of their place of residence, as well as reduce regional inequalities. It will make it possible to attract additional investment, as has already been shown in the previous regional... Administrative territorial reform will create a lot of soil... economically stronger municipalities will increase their capacity and administrative professionalism. And in order to improve these future municipalities, the Ministry continues to implement the road investment programme, which is particularly important in the context of this municipal reform, in order to provide citizens and businesses with significant improvements in mobility development. Managing the road network is a very important moment for the further development of the entire country, and as part of the reform, this programme was already launched last year and was also allocated more than EUR 20 million to sort the roads. This year, too, it is planned to allocate more than 50 million euros from the state budget for the road network, as well as 100 million euros in the framework of the Recovery and Stability Mechanism. And this work has been very important in cooperation with both the Ministry of Transport and planning regions to identify which sections of the road are important in order to ensure a much greater degree of regional connectivity and improved mobility from a future perspective. It should also be noted that an important decision in the Cabinet of Ministers was adopted on the waste management plan for the next seven years, which provides for an extension of the system of separate collection of waste, a substantial increase in waste recycling and implementation of the principles of the circular economy. However, I would also like to draw attention to the activities of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, which are aimed at promoting economic resilience and mitigating the effects of the Covid-19 crisis in the economy. Last year, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development set up an economic recovery programme with a focus on the... a loan programme. And this available funding both last year and this year makes it possible to warm up the economy in the regions, create jobs for the population and provide the necessary support for mitigating the pandemic's effects. And here it is worth noting that last year a number of municipalities received state loans – around EUR 100 million in total (total 307 projects financing) – and this year the loan limit has been increased to EUR 150 million. And the list of programmes and directions to be supported has also been substantially extended to enable local authorities to carry out high-quality and important investment projects for further development. It should also be mentioned that last year with the support of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development of 13 municipalities... 17 kindergarten projects... the possibility to visit the pre-school educational institution for more than two and a half thousand children and thus reduce the kindergarten row in Latvia as a whole by about a third. I have to say, if there is at least one benefit from this pandemic in which we live, then it is definitely much faster development of digitalisation in Latvia and progress towards digital transformation. And here we must note the draft developed by the Ministry in the context of the Digital Transformation Guidelines, which will be seen in the government in the near future and will cover a very wide list of directions and sectors, so that in the next seven years we really... To truly revitalise the digital transformation – together with those support instruments that are available from the European Union – and to create a truly digitally skilled society and make these changes... in this sense would have a positive impact on and be implemented both by public administration and, of course, by a wide range of sectors of the economy and by the life of any citizen. With regard to such concrete plans in this context, it is planned to develop by 2023... and significantly expand the unitary customer service centres of the state and municipality, establish at least 587 throughout the territory of the country; this would mean – at least one centre in each parish – so that citizens can receive both state and local government services as close as possible to their residence. We will also continue to actively train digital agents throughout the territory of Latvia – in addition to at least two thousand in the coming years. And for this time, we have trained more than six thousand people across Latvia who can provide important support, so to speak, in getting to know the digital world and receiving various types of services. In this respect, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development is also continuing the course taken so that Latvia can make a decisive step towards an increasingly greener and digital country, while at the same time creating the ground to promote the economic capacity of the regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U60	Thank you. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U61	Dear President, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Ministers! Ladies, thank you very much! Ladies and gentlemen, Annual report by Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš The Saeima on the work done and planned by the Cabinet of Ministers, on the time when... The country has been in a critical medical situation for a year, where... We are now the “first” in Europe, but – the first from the end, i.e., the last, in terms of vaccination. There is a critical state of the national economy, critical for small, medium-sized and also large employers. The problems are not only in healthcare, but in every sector, and therefore also in education. Yes, for the sake of truth, this state of emergency is a real clone for individual natural and legal persons, but there are very few. From your report, I expected to see the concrete objectives of the action plan, I expected to expect you to help that part of the country's society that is most in need of assistance at the moment, so that our country can make the most of this crisis with the least possible losses. Instead, we received a primitive history story today! None of what is necessary is neither government decisions, nor this report, nor... cannot be heard in this 26-minute story either. Instead of focusing all your efforts on mitigating the effects of the crisis, your coalition is eliminating universities, creating chaos in local governments, carrying out many different simulations of reforms that have nothing to do with the biggest crisis in the country so far. And by the end. Prime Minister, I invite you to evaluate not only the individual responsibility and compliance of your subordinates with the office, but also to start with yourself and to evaluate your personal responsibility for the greatest chaos created so far in Latvia's history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U62	Name for Minister of Education and Science Ilga Šuplinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U63	Hello! Lobby dyna! Oh, my God! All the time, despite the fact that currently the Covid-19 dictates its agenda, the quality of education is the primary goal of the Ministry of Education and Science. And that's because when you're on a trip or on a route, you realize that Covid-19 dictates to you a stop, where you're not really going to stop yourself. The primary objective of the Ministry of Education and Science has been that we are also using the stop caused by the community not as a solution to a specific situation right now and only now, but every solution is with a long-term investment. So we have a project “Your Class” that is already recognized as the world’s best solution for both UNESCO and the OECD... in this specific assessment. This project and its study materials are used in 77 European countries. More than 1,400 programmes have been produced. ‘ Your class has started the second season, and we are now trying to reduce the impact of the pandemic with the career day “Your Class” to see what and to what extent our students choose. We've created a system... Covid-19... support for very different target audiences, sports. There are five million students for their excellence and employment grant. And here's just one rehearsal to say to Mrs. Lochmele. Five million have been reached for the employment grant – students can receive 200 euros per month on application... and for a period of at least six months. This means that the target group that you mentioned as vulnerable and invisible... It's possible to still notice... and it is also possible to apply for this grant. Research has been allocated 21 million, and here I am mentioning the amounts that go with Covid-19 mitigation projects and those commercialisation projects that will continue. If we look at the performance of the researchers, then we can say very precisely that at this point... In the Baltics, the first laboratory for accredited testing of individual protective products has been established, the method for monitoring waste water has been approved, a central biobank and a data exchange platform has been established. Follow-up allows us to say more clearly... and determine the development of the third wave. There has been a massive application of saliva tests in Kuldīga, which has been very successful in coping with the Covid-19 situation... Unlike other municipalities... and show the example that... Currently there will be ongoing on-the-spot training. Digital resources and materials have been created for the training of the storage, and researchers are continuing to be surprised and, I must say, to prepare new products and services and innovations, also working with the European Space Agency and participating in the European Nuclear Research Centre, because it is Latvia that has become the associate members of these two research institutions that are recognised in the world last year. We have also thought about support for teachers, because we understand that the extra workload of teachers in the context of distance learning work is enormous, and here is a contribution to the development of pre-school special teachers and staff bonuses... 6,3 million, and 13,1 in general education and vocational school. Currently, the expanded professional orientations are also being prepared... the project for granting the payment and... higher education... In this context, it must be said that it is precisely the Covid-19 measures ( disinfection, digitisation) that cover expenditure, as well as those relating to the support of academic staff. I will say right away that digitalisation is the next step, and here it should be noted that not only the care of the Ministry of Education and Science, but also the care of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and the Ministry of Transport, as well as the care of the Latvian Municipalities Union, is that the Internet and smart device are in every house. And I'll say right away that the Ministry of Education and Science in this case, I think... has chosen to go together with the Latvian Municipal Union in this priority or dominant move, because... In principle, 12,000 smart devices have been bought and delivered to schools last year. Thank you to every municipality that found and did! 20 thousand are currently in the procurement process. In principle, looking at the Internet connection... In cooperation with a number of partners, we have achieved and created an Internet platform for schools, where internet services will be improved for more than 280 institutions... Please combine my time of debate. And at this point...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U64	The speaking times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U65	... this improvement in the Internet has already been achieved in 100 schools. And it's in the schools' regions. Also in 2021, Internet service expenditure is planned for all Latvian general education schools as paid from the Ministry of Education and Science. And these are digital exercise courses for educators. Let me say right away that digitalisation and digital skills are at the heart of the Ministry of Education and Science, and in principle all processes undertaken will continue this year. It should certainly be stressed that in the process of digitisation, it is not possible to claim responsibility only from the Ministry of Education and Science to provide a smart device in every house and ensure internet coverage in all places of Latvia. But I would remind you that according to the latest data Latvia, compared to other countries, dominates in these indicators... In particular, we have access to infrastructure and very good security. On the other hand, we still do not have sufficient digital competence. And that's why - as Mr Plesh, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development also pointed out - this is really an emphasis on the diversity of digital know-how, accessibility, the offering of programmes at very different levels this year, next year and beyond. As one of the most important work of the Ministry of Education and Science is the reform of higher education. And despite the fact that several speakers mentioned how... I have to say that many things relate to the planning of what has been and what is still to be implemented... We must recognise that the new doctoral model, which provides for funding from the state of EUR 1000 for doctoral students, is already in place. And similar funding is provided by the university, or at least by the workplace in which he also develops his doctoral dissertations... work. The proposals for the third reading are under preparation... amendments to the Law on Higher Education. This is the first step, because we understand that Latvia is the last country in Europe where the Council has not been established and which has not allowed... In particular, this management system has not made it possible to plan strategic and also financial development for each of the higher education institutions of Latvia. The second step is the change in academic staff load and career patterns. The third step is the introduction of an improved financial model. On the other hand... is also an essential responsibility not only for the state, but also for the higher education institution, which... surprise and offer its performance in specific strategically defined areas...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U66	Minister, time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U67	And the fourth is also this internal and external...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U68	Name of Minister for Culture Naurim Puntulis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U69	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Prime Minister, fellow ministers, Members, society! It seems unnecessary for me to recall that it is the cultural sector that has been hit by this pandemic in the most direct hit around the world. It is also clear to everyone how much it affects not only the sector itself but the moral health of society as a whole. That's why I'm going to talk more in the number language right now... in particular, in the language of the figures. First of all, about the first wave of the community. In the first wave of Covida, the cultural sector was supported by about 20 million – in the form of various support – and the figure is close to what our neighbours in Lithuania and Estonia, with whom we so much like to compare us. Now, as the new budget year begins, we are working on support mechanisms for the cultural sector in this budget year and the society in the second wave, in close connection with the whole cultural sector. We analysed all the benefits and disadvantages of the previous support mechanisms and came up with new ones. I would add that the cultural sector is the only sector for which, in addition to the universal support mechanisms, it has developed its own support mechanisms, while at the same time the cultural sector also receives benefits from the universal support mechanisms; almost eight million of them have been received (according to the latest data from the State Revenue Service). So... On our current support mechanisms. They could be divided into two parts. These would be, above all, survival programmes in which... One million – ticket compensation, three million – for the sustainability programme of institutions covering daily bills, rents and similar cases, and two million – for the support programme of self-employed workers who for some reason do not qualify for general support. Our motto – “The pandemic has prohibited us from showing but has not prohibited us from creating.” That is why we have another title in the programme: "For the future of culture". Here we are talking about six million future products... 60 per cent in the form of loans and 40 per cent in the form of books. And the future programme we call Orpheus. So three million more – to create future cultural programmes. Colleagues! As a practical artist, I am still aware that no money can provide the full operation and comfort of the industry in such a long pandemic. It can only be ensured by meetings with the viewer and by the interaction of this energy. I agree that there has been a great deal of illogicalness in the adoption of various restrictions and decisions, there has been a lot of mistakes, but they can be corrected, and we will do so. However, by correcting these mistakes and trying to help various sectors, including the cultural sector, we must not lose out in this situation – the primary responsibility of the government and society as a whole in a pandemic situation is the life of every person. I would ask you not to forget that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U70	Thank you. Name: Minister of Justice Janis Bordans.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U71	Hello, honourable Members of the Saeima and honourable Members! Saeima to the Presidium! First of all, I would like to thank all the politicians in the Saeima who have voted in favour of the laws that... in one way or another... We have proposed from the Ministry of Justice – everything collective. And all these achievements – I will try to list them in short in this speech – are also thanks to your cooperation with you and your support. And, inter alia, whether the party is in position or in opposition. It's all... These works have also been done by the Ministry of Justice... and if we look at the Prime Minister's report on state security and foreign affairs, then 90 percent – these are really collectively proposed by the Ministry of Justice... and all of our joint work done... And useful to all. And, among other things, Mr. Cilevičs' speech while listening, I have to say, regardless of nationality. And what is the most important thing from the Ministry of Justice? I'll just list you, and you'll see that they are not separate articles of the law that are... maybe a lot could be counted, and so it would look like a big job, as says the list, but... All of these affected... I really... in the last year, when this result... because the beginning has been... Also in 2019, so that these works can be carried out... These are systemic changes in the justice sector, with the aim of making the justice sector effective. And, by the way, the results, most likely, won't be seen during this Saeima... That's why, as you say, these laurels will blow... no matter who will be next to the Ministry of Justice... next government, I will be pleased that this collective of the Ministry of Justice today... the team has done a job whose fruits will be seen in the near future. And these are: This year the Court of Economic Cases will start work; the audit of justice has been completed; for the first time the courts opened... in the open process... a new Prosecutor General has been selected; a judicial, prosecutor and investigators' Academy has been set up. And certain smaller works. The competence of the Crime Prevention Council has been broadened, namely that the Crime Prevention Council will actually start working on crime prevention, not only on the distribution of money from the confiscation fund. A reform of the Institute of Judicial Expertise has been launched, which has been waiting for 30 years to start. A system for the development of professional knowledge of employees in the legal system. There have been extensive amendments to the Law on the Bar, recommending... Amendments to the legal status of the offices have been clarified and clearly understandable... Not only notaries, but also lawyers and sworn bailiffs will be clear, market economy understandable... It is possible to set up offices and forms of offices that can be understood by the market economy. A new procedure for the selection of judges has been established. The list of judgments to be published has been extended. Reform of juvenile criminal responsibility has been initiated. Additional restrictions on maintenance debtors. The possibility for natural persons to dispose of small amounts of debt. Forced lease started... the reform of the termination of joint ownership. New Heads of State Land Service have been selected. And here we are talking about the fact that the recruitment of staff plays a very important role in our work. Thank you. I wish you good luck.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U72	Thank you. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U73	Hello, Madam President. Colleagues! Mr. Prime Minister! Ministers! Prime Minister, I am fond of the fact that, in your speech today, based on some similarities from the past, you have talked more about what we expect in the future, about this reindustrialisation or smart industrialisation... a possible national development model. It is also common sense that you have pointed out how important it is to the success of such a model that people called reading skills a hundred years ago, but today we include in the term human capital. A little bit, however, touching on what your government has done... You have already recognised that not everything that the government has done has been correct in trying to find appropriate solutions, especially to deal with the problems of Covid-19. The objective situation and a number of subjective factors show that it is highly likely that your government will have to manage our country until the next parliamentary elections, that is, for about a year and a half. And that's why it's very important that these mistakes of the past... that it should be a lesson for the future. But now – about this idea... the future model that the government intends to implement, according to your words. As a major problem for the successful implementation of this plan, I see the sectorally fragmented and horizontal actions of your government, among the restaurants, at times unbalanced, as shown not only by moments, in a cross-sectoral view, the conflicting decisions of the government in relation to the community, but also by your report by the Cabinet of Ministers proposed by the Saeima today, unfortunately. At least for me, when I read it, it looks like a compilation of individual ministerial reports, not a joint report by the Cabinet of Ministers, in which the idea of the smart industrialisation model that you mentioned and intended to implement would also be based on synergy. The issues relating to this model are fragmented in a number of areas in the report – separately talking about increasing productivity, science and research, education, sustainable and targeted regional development. A higher degree of harmonisation is likely to be found in the document entitled ‘National Industrial Policy Guidelines 2021-2027. year’. But if we talk about the Cabinet of Ministers' own report, then... For example, the section of this report on improving productivity through the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism deals with investment in public business infrastructure by developing (and here I have stressed!) industrial parks or regional centres of national importance. Here I would like to ask you, as Prime Minister, how it goes with the human capital policy that is now... The ruling coalition has incorporated amendments to the Law on Higher Education... after the second reading, imposing a numerical criterion on the universities of science, which in the near future... The development of human capital will be directly affected at least in Kurzeme and Latgale regions. In my view, to make this inter-ministerial and inter-branch cooperation truly productive in the implementation of such important national policy plans – it is your direct responsibility as Prime Minister. And during this future period of your government, I call on you to really take full responsibility for the coordinated action and action of the entire government and try to promote it. Thank you. I'll finish with it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U74	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U75	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues! The Covid-19 health and economic crisis, as well as the vaccination process, reveal much deeper and more profound problems in public administration and public relations. The State Administration has been established on the basis of the establishment of the political forces of the elite of power on the monothenic composition, and also implements the relevant common policy, which basically continues to divide society. The European Union's recent official documents have also pointed to problems in meeting the interests of minorities; this is currently being ignored by the government. At the same time, the political elite is carrying out double standards. I would remind you that on 16 January last year, there was a Prime Minister's visit to Belarus and even an attempt to make a few sentences in Russian when he was coordinating with Lukashenko. I will also remind you of the position taken by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, thanks to which the oligarch, closer to Lukashenko's regime, Aleksei Oleksin, was excluded from the European Union's list of sanctions about a week ago. At the same time, the gap between society and the political elite continues to deepen, and the government continues to ignore the desire of 40 percent of the population to choose the pot and carry out the vaccination process with the ‘Sputnik V’ vaccine, even the threat to life and health, as well as the possibility to vaccinate as quickly as possible and reach collective immunity. I believe that real trust and respect in society is gained by exercising power and making informed decisions in the common interest of society as a whole, rather than taking many different interests of the coalition members, more precisely, tits and advantages. The replacement of the Minister of Health did not solve much more serious problems throughout the state administration and decision-making procedures in Latvia. What is much worse is that, at least for the time being, neither the Prime Minister nor other ministers seem to be aware of the reasons and the causal link that led to the failed and controversial vaccination. Analyzing the situation with the level of the population's morbidity, the disease process... ongoing... and vaccination, it can be assumed that in fact most of the society has already overloaded Covid-19 and now in society – thanks to the society itself! – collective immunity has developed or develops. This is certainly not due to decisions taken by the government and the government, but due to the fact that, on the contrary, people have not received sufficient serious economic support and have not been subject to appropriate restrictive measures, and most of the society is likely to have developed antibodies in the form of the latent crackdown of the Covid-19. As a result, I predicted that in the near future, in April or early May, the disease would fall sharply and that we would be able to return to normal or to a semi-normal life.... situations. What else do I mean? I want to say that people believe and trust in real, good things and real works. If these works and things are replaced by speaking, then faith and trust in both the things themselves and those who do them or speak them only is lost. For some time now, those representing the government have been saying that it is necessary to explain and talk to the public. But public communication cannot replace real works. Public communication cannot replace vaccination, public communication cannot and must not become a tempestuous simulation of action. I therefore believe that the government has wasted itself and that only communication is offered to the public in the workplace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U76	The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U77	Hello, colleagues! How sad it was to listen to the Prime Minister! Every year we have the ship's way, the direction is changing. Words do not match works. Last year we finished the major repairs of the financial sector in pomposis – and what result do we see? The accounts are closed. Hundreds of millions went to other countries. And peace and peace! Nobody is responsible for this! Now the Prime Minister announced reindustrialisation, commemorating the big, successful entrepreneurs such as “Micronet” and “Latvijas Finieris”. No word about the support of Latgale Special Economic Zone! I can conclude that there is no objective to combat poverty and to develop production. You serve big owners. Those who were wealthy will be even more prosperous. The Latvian market will be redistributed and destroyed, from restaurants, hotels to financial services that Latvia has ever provided. What reindustrialisation, when you recently approved Mr. Ples, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, who set out his main work to combat climate change?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Well, good luck! And finally. I hope that the time will come when your government will be punished and tried for human rights violations – for the fact that poor quality masks have left children to wear... and finally about the fact that people with a positive covid test are being grafted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U78	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U79	Yeah. And I have another suggestion for Krišjānis Kariņš. You know what the thinking of the little ones is different from that of the susceptible ones? Nippets are looking for ways to escape risks, susceptible people – how to manage these risks. If we look at what your government has done, we can see that it is desperate and unteachingly trying to escape these risks like a bad surgeon – not to operate the injury, but cut it off: finger, hand, foot – no matter; the main thing is how to keep the infection away. However, by solving some of the challenges, you create others – even more so. Yes, it can also tackle these challenges, but I have already explained to you last year that this is not a situation that can be solved, like a thief hiding under a tree. To get rid of something, to avoid – these are temporary solutions... similar ways to avoid going to the toilet. Yes, for a while it can be done, but then you're going to fly with stuffed panties and don't know what to do with it. That is what you are now doing. And with such an approach there is no difference whether you have a plan A, a plan B, a plan C; you will always have a plan D. And your action demonstrates this. It must be understood that these challenges will not succeed in hiding and solutions must be developed to enable them to live with them. It is necessary not to deal with hysterical, unmistakable amputation of hands and feet, that is, with measures that undermine the Latvian economy and public trust, but with measures that allow us to live together with the community and strengthen our nation's belief that our government has a path that will not end with a desperate and inconceivable struggle at the current locked toilet. But it is unlikely that you will be able to do so, even to understand how it should be, so it would be better for you to go home while you still have such a chance. And how to do it in a respectable way, I already told you last time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U80	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U81	Yes, colleagues! The chaos mentioned by my colleague, Mr Zarins, would probably be very good with the particular fact... I would also like to hear some clarification from Mr. Puntulis... maybe not today, maybe sometime. In principle, as long as all people here are fighting for their survival, someone is partying. And while people are fighting to have at least some future, there are those who use state resources to push their own things. I would like to understand from Mr Puntulis whether he is in a course of things that the Society Integration Fund, funded by the Ministry of Culture, is helping LGBT House Riga in a survey in which LGBT House Riga today, in these days, is shameless at our children with various questions, from sexual drive to religious belief. Minor children! LGBT House Riga on the funds of the Ministry of Culture, Mr Puntulis, lies shamelessly with our children, asking details about schools, Mrs Šuplinska, as well as about the training language and all the details that are interested in LGBT House Riga, which promises to pass this information on to some researchers. And it is not interested in any of you, honourable members of the Cabinet of Ministers! You are talking about various other fantasies while our children are being harmed right now. Mr. Puntull, I'll wait for your answer... and Mrs Šuplinsk, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U82	I closed the debate. According to the parliamentary roll of order, after the debate, the name is given to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U83	Thank you, honourable... I guess it's... Madam President, Dear Members, Honourable Members! Colleagues Ministers! I have listened with great interest to this debate, and I have also written down a whole series of... notes, it may also be useful to remember one day. I will try to address each other. Mr. Zarin, you... you have an approach that is... I understand a part of the country's population... you are expressing basically anger and some sort of frustrating. I feel with you, but in such times, it seems to me that it is important to look more at what can be done not, well, in terms of common conditions... That's why I, too, in my speech today... I am not only talking about what we are doing in a pandemic situation and what our exit strategy with vaccination is, and several ministers also spoke about it... said, thank them – but I am also talking about where we have to go as a country at all, because in such circumstances we often forget that there is something outside the crisis, we forget that we also need to think about tomorrow. And I'm pretty, I think... I think clearly justified what direction... and how the country should develop further. Mr Agešina criticised that ministers did not work as a team, funny and strange discussions in the work of the Cabinet. In a democratic country, there are free debates, and they may seem interesting to each other. I think anyone could even comment on each other's debate, perhaps in a similar way. It is a kind of democracy of time that one feels that what someone says is wise and good and pleasant, and the other feels that it is strange. The main thing that you have is that you have the right, like me, to also express your opinion. Okay. Mr. Valaiņš... I think you've misunderstood me a little, and I'm gonna try to fix it. I assume it's in me, not in your perception. Smart reindustrialization... as well as being called green reindustrialisation. Our national... Industrial policy guidelines... I read that steam to you... the name of the objectives, but could be called a strategy for increasing exports. That's all in fact the same thing. There is a question of how we want to name it, as we want to emphasise it, because what is needed in our country to become a richer country is more exports. And who is competing in export markets today? Well, these are goods and services, as it has always been. So we have a developed industrial base that we need to strengthen. I read all the industries where wages are below the average, which points to it. And even if we look at their productivity indicators, we are lagging behind in terms of competition from many European companies. We are all in the common market, we must help these companies to invest in a way that makes them more competitive. Either there are the electronics industry, pharmaceuticals, agriculture, metalworking, light industry, manufacturing industry, woodworking, food, anything else... There we have those industries, but they have to become more exportable. And then, of course, we have a whole service sector. The ICT sector, which practically did not exist 30 years ago, is now one of the largest; even our leading company is directly from this sector. We have construction exports – very successful, we have medical exports that are growing and we also have education exports. In particular, for example, medicine goes to Latvia to study. But it could be much more. So the key is to focus on exports and focus our investments on strengthening all companies that are exportable. That is what I mean when I say the words "smart reindustrialisation". And I'm sorry if I'm not clear to you. Mr. Kazinovsky, you talked about inequality... unequal development in the country. You also spoke the same thing last time I spoke to the Saeima. And so... This is our common challenge. If I had a simple solution to a complex problem... I think it's like... wouldn't be really serious. But if we look at the way up that is in the country through this smart reindustrialisation, the development of exportable companies, then, of course, what concerns us as a country in contrast to many other European countries would also apply, for example, to regions, to Latgale. We have both in Rezekne and Daugavpils and Livani... We have very competitive companies on a global scale, but we need more of them. So that's not the fault in wanting or power, but actually in number. And I think it's how we can raise our regions, just like we can raise our country as a whole. Not with money redistribution, but with job creation. And that is our common challenge. Mr Gobzem, you said a lot. You used... word... empty populism... I guess I won't comment. Mr Vjačeslav Dombrovskis, it is actually very interesting what you are saying. Well, you criticise, of course, you're in opposition, it's in itself... You say there's no third wave anywhere. It seems to me that our Minister for Health, Mr. Pavļuta, has made it very clear to you that this third wave is in almost all of Europe except for us, and if you want to see how it looks, then unfortunately you can only look to the north – Estonia... There's, unfortunately, a crack... in a very bad word. We're... Thank God, we have so far avoided, we continue to reduce disease. It is in fact our common merit that we do not see it for the third wave at the moment. And about industrialisation. You are right to say that before the First World War, the prosperity of Latvian industry was linked to the protectionism of the Tzar Empire. Thus, impose a high level of import duty on industrial goods. So those who wanted to trade and work in this empire, which was then, developed production, and Latvia was one of the main centres for this production. It has a lot of historical reasons that I think we all know. But if we do not have the opportunity today to build our country's economy through tariffs and the common structure of the European Union actually denies it... But within the European Union, there is an internal mechanism that the United States also used after the Second World War to build the German economy, the so-called Marshall Plan, which was... In fact, if you look back, it was a German reindustrialisation policy, which the United States made with the idea that employed and wealthy people would be friends of democracy rather than enemies of democracy. And it also came true. We now have these kinds of transfers, money transfers from the rest of the European Union to us. These are all European funds, about dozens of years in total... billions. If we use them wisely, we do not need these protective tariffs at the moment. However, we need to use these funds wisely. So now we have to get out completely of what the folklore is called "roof baths in the middle of the forest" that we built for European money, so that we really turn these money towards the development of our exporting companies. And that's... including infrastructure, including education. It is not just to give money to businesses, it is to build the whole ecosystem, including – the legal framework, which Mr Bordan has also talked about very well and where much has been done. So thank you, Mr Dombrovskis, for your comments, and I would like to speak with you about this again. Mr Cilevič, you are talking about a united society. I understand this is your long-term theme, and it's not the wrong theme. If we could fully overcome our historical heritage and work on an increasingly cohesive nation, that would be great. I see that's a cohesion... the younger the man, the more natural and easier it happens. So those people who are in today's Latvia, who are already independent in Latvia, now know all the language of the country in schools. I think it's about cohesion... there, in fact, there is no real difficulty anymore; rather, it is also doing so from earlier times, but I think it is moving well with each year to the right. I can say anyway that as it was 20 years ago... I think it is not the same situation today. Mrs Stepanenko, you, I am sorry, you have said it quite indecently, I think I will not comment on it. That is my view of what you said. Mr Cabanov, you spoke about what I think has been holding our country back from development for about 10 to 15 years. This outdated idea that transit will save us... Bridge between East and West... Now where did it take us? We took and led oil products, coal, minerals... minerals, bulk cargoes to our ports. Go through our... As they say, crossing our territory, going to the port, being sent out... Individuals may be rich from it, but the country is unfortunately not rich. Money transit business, which you praise... the financial sector, as it worked for some time, where individuals became very prosperous, but... If you thought... When the largest bank started its own liquidation process, the impression on gross domestic product was not obvious at all. This merely indicates how this business was actually completely separated from our economy. And this transit thinking – buy, sell, marry... that we will be rich... We are therefore not rich. I will say exactly against your statement. That is what has stopped us for a long time. Its counterpot is this – smart reindustrialisation, which means jobs and wages for people, not wages for a couple of people who are able to earn at the expense of transit in such a monopoly position. Mrs Papules, you're about education... I think you need more conversation with Mrs. Šuplinska. I think she talked to you, too. Mr. Girgen said about the home system. Mrs. Lochmele, you asked for all kinds of questions that are, in fact, explained all the time... apparently not good enough. So what we do to overcome the pandemic, what we do to overcome the economic crisis, and what we do to carry out vaccination. Well, this one has also been spoken today. I can only say one thing about the economic crisis. Thank God, in 2020 our economic decline was one of the smallest in Europe. We do not yet know about this year, but it has proved that our economy is very multifaceted. And if one part of the economy is everyone who is in contact – trade, restaurants and so on (I am not talking about shops), then... We have a second part – it is the whole exportable part that is continuing to grow; employment is growing, profits are growing, and it is pulling us up. So it only points to how important it is for us to restructure our economy by putting greater emphasis on what really is carrying us and what are such crises... also shock-resistant. For the pandemic and for vaccination. Well, there's a government plan, the Ministry of Health has a clear plan, we're going to have mass vaccination centres working from 1 April. We've bought... and expect the delivery from the manufacturers... about two million pots in three months. We must assume that this will also happen. It does not depend on us, it is dependent on the responsibilities of the various drug manufacturers. We've got the main thing... and I understand your concerns... probably the government must be prepared with these mass vaccination centres, and that is what I, as the head of the government, insist on, and of course our Minister for Health, the same... works to be... Even today after this sitting... After looking at this matter at the Saeima... The government will have a sitting where we also... of which... Let's see. So please follow this closely. Mr Dolgopolov, you... So, about that industrialisation. Well, your reading in history and my reading in history may vary slightly. Those trade routes... Well, then they go back to the Middle Ages, to when the first traders from Germany arrived... So... Of course, it's always... by itself, but... We got what... At the end of the time, it was or... Who said it... Mr. Wuzan said very well – what we used to call reading skills, today we call human capital. We have a very long tradition of developing this human capital, and that is what we have to do. Mr Pavļuta spoke about the health sector. Thank him for that. Mr Pliesa, as appropriate, for his Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. And Mr. Tawar... Mr Tawar, you are dissatisfied, I understand. And you want to... in particular, how to help those who have difficulty. Now I'm gonna try to give you at least a couple of answers. You have probably heard that the government has recently decided on a €300 million package, it is one percent of gross domestic product, even a little more now to have money – €500 – for every child in parental care and €200 – for all pensioners and people with disabilities. Then, in addition... you may have heard about the fact that we have spent more than 350 million euros on specific and direct support from companies, i.e. money that helps closed shops pay for rent or public utility and so on; there are also salaries, subsidies in there, there are all kinds of support for companies. And if we look at indirect aids through Altum... different financial instruments... There's more than 900 million euros for what's going on... all have not been used, but there are active uses. And we, too, in the government sitting today... We plan to invest EUR 200 million in infrastructure development, which will again help with employment when these projects develop... they must be from July this year. So it's quite specific. Maybe you're still... And I think... Well, I'd also be happy to talk to you then, if you haven't yet fully understood. And if you're talking about... Well, you are in opposition, and you are not satisfied with the work of the government, but as the head of government I can say very seriously – I really listen to the criticism of what you and others are saying, and I really try to understand what and how we can do better. And I also understand from your statement that we are clear and bright... not be clear enough about what we have done. So thank you. Mrs Šuplinska talked about the education system, Mr Puntulis talked about culture. Thank you both. And the Bordeans Jānis – really in-depth about... I think... John, I'm sorry... You will not have listed everything that has been done in the legal area that strengthens our basis. Mr Vucana, thank you for your good comment. And I want to know what... You talked about that government deficit in it... either, in fragmented work and that there is a lack of its horizontalism or its common denominator. And I can only agree with you. Unfortunately, the structure of our public administration, in this way, contributes to the fact that each ministry is working more in its own area, as it says, with its own thief, and does not look to the right in particular, and does not look to the left in particular. And what we are trying to do in government sittings is find a common denominator. That's why there's been a Coordination Centre for the Supermarkets, which, in a way... meets as the Ministry of the Prime Minister... Not at all, but... Well, that's coordinating... That work is incomplete, I fully agree with you, and that is what we must continue to work on, which I am trying to work for on a daily basis. It must be said that sometimes it should be remembered that, anyway, this government is a reflection of the Saeima and society. We're now... Many parties have been elected, not so numerous, and the coalition consists of five different parties. So this is another challenge that we have every day, but which we are actually overcoming. And in general, I could say – in my assessment – that contrary to the criticism that sometimes sounds, our government actually works quite well as a team. We only are sometimes quite loud and not embarrassed... one another... to tell you what you think. Sometimes it may be better to keep quiet, but now we are. Mrs. Schvekov, you're... I understood that you want the Sputnik pot, from what you said, and I can say that our government is currently buying pots that have passed through the evaluation sieve of the European Medicines Agency. It is very important for us that any pot that would be used in Latvia is really tested and safe. If the pot has passed through this sieve, then... We have also purchased them and applied for them. And now, from the quantity of pods we've bought, we could each... if all will actually be produced and imported... Well, that is, if producers are able to produce them, and all manufacturers will receive authorisations or registrations, we would have enough vaccination rooms for every citizen of Latvia. In fact, we have already bought well more pots than it would have been strictly necessary, precisely with the idea of who the manufacturer will not supply, who will not deliver, which will be registered and which will not be registered. Mrs. Scratch, you too... complete displeasure. Well, I wish you good luck. Mr. Zarins, I-I, you're there too... for the facilities... And that's what you're talking about... It's hard for me to answer directly. Mrs Stepanenko spoke again. You said there are those who are partying while others are trying to survive. It's like that. You could add that there are those who buy clocks in Switzerland while others work. Now you can speak a lot and a lot of spirits in such illustrations. To conclude, my fellow Members, I really want to thank you... First of all, members of the coalition and fellow ministers on the work they have done. We are in difficult circumstances, previously unprecedented, with such a pandemic. No one can give us a statement, no more than in other countries. When it's over, we'll be able to look back and really understand what we've done well, what we could have done better and what's not done correctly. And I believe that everything will not be done correctly. I already think today that everything has not been done correctly, but we are in a very dynamic process, and we are working as a war, where there is fog and smoke. We do not see all the facts until... until these facts have already passed unfortunately. We are forced – society as a whole and all countries – to make the best decisions that are understandable at that time. This is what our neighbours are doing. Well, who's better, who's worse, let's see it when it's over. I, colleagues, will also tell the opposition about my contribution, about criticism, especially constructive criticism, thank you for that. And let us remember that we are all in these positions, whether it is in the Saeima or it is in the government. We represent the people of our country; we must continue to work for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2208-U84	Thank you to the Prime Minister for his report and for his answers to the debate. Thank you to Members of the Cabinet and Members for the broad debate. Thus, the annual report by Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš The Saeima on the work done and planned by the Cabinet of Ministers has been examined. Thus, we have also examined the agenda of the first remote emergency session on 11 March. I remind you that after a break at 13: 30, we are meeting on the agenda for the second remote emergency session on 11 March. I would also remind you that a remote meeting of the Saeima Presidium and the Fraces Council has now been convened on a break. Only registration of participants has been successful. I'm closing the sitting.
