ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2234-U1	Dear colleagues, Let's start the third remote emergency sitting on April 8, this year. On the agenda, the question of setting up, approving and examining the report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. The members Uldis Augulis, Viktors Valainis, Janīna Jalinska, Jānis Dūklavs, Maris Kučinskis, Armands Krauze, Edgars Tavars, Jānis Vucāns, Raimonds Bergmanis, Jānis Urbanovičs, Boriss Cilevičs, Vladimirs Niconovs, Valerijs Agešins, Arthur Rubiks, Edgars Kucins, Inga Goldbergs, Ivans Klementyevs, Igors Pimenovs, Jānis Tutins, Andrejs Clementyevs, Jānis Krišāns, Gundars Multie, Ivans Ribakovs, Regina Ločmels, Vitalijs Orlovs, Evija Papule, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Didzis Šmits Sprints, Karina Sprūrevs, Jūlija Stepanenkos, Aldis Gobzems, Ivars Zariņš, Līvubovas, Izevbovaszīgīgīgīszīgīgājs Šķojus, Provide Providss Provide, a Pro-treatmentististististististististististististististististististististististististististististististististististististististististististististististististististististististististististististististististististististististististististististististististististististist of of of of of of of...... Prossssss of Pro Pro Pro Pro Pro Pro Pro Pro Pro Pro Pro Pro Pro Pro. Pro Pro Pro Pro Pro Pro Pro Pro Pro Pro Pro Pro Pro Pro Pro Pro Pro Pro Pro Pro Pro. Pro. Pro Pro Pro Pro Pro Pro Pro............................ Pro Pro Prossssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss establishment’. Member Viktors Valainis on behalf of the applicants.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2234-U2	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Now it's absolutely clear... and the government itself has acknowledged that it has acted erroneously that it has made mistakes in the management of this pandemic. It is also absolutely clear at the moment that irreversibly negative... mistakes that I think none of us are happy, but unfortunately this has happened. Today there are more than 100,000 patients in Latvia who have been ill since the onset of the pandemic; unfortunately there are more than 1900 deaths in Latvia since the onset of this pandemic. Colleagues, this commission of inquiry is needed by every one of us, the whole of Latvian society, in order to be able to ascertain how these decisions have been made. To date, using the opportunities offered to the parliamentary opposition, which are to work on sending Members' questions, writing requests... There have been a number of questions we've been looking at, both on mask shopping and on others... issues. We see that these responses are becoming more and more pervasive, and more and more governments are avoiding concrete responses. And these questions remain such a common practice. And the demand for a procedure in the Saeima is decreasing more and more the meaning and nature of the whole. At the moment, we colleagues, this committee of inquiry... we want to see clarity both as to how these masks were bought, how this purchase was organised... both on the quality of their masks and on the procurement procedure. Was there one businessman or wasn't a treasured businessman? When imposing restrictions, were there or were not individual stores shelled? What's the effect... and how has the decision-making process been assessed at all? Was their success assessed or not evaluated? These questions must be answered clearly. Unfortunately, this has not happened so far. Above all, we need to understand how we are also in this vaccine crisis. It is absolutely clear to all, I think, that the way out of this crisis is possible only with vaccines, and that these vaccines will be available, everyone knew too. The question of how we get to these vaccines raises a great many questions. Possible lobbies. Why in Latvia was bought directly... In this way, the officials came to this decision... I personally and, I think, many have doubts about this recognition that politically only Ilze Viņķele is the one who should answer this question. I think that this committee of inquiry will have to come to this: is Ilze Viņķele really the only one who should be responsible for this? Didn't the officials really report... and did politicians really not know about the circumstances of this situation, about the situation surrounding the purchase of vaccines? We see that information is constantly being hidden. And every member of the government coming under pressure from the opposition or journalists... and, in this case, the Minister for Health... We see that there is a regular test, the results of which come again with new news that we have withdrawn from Pfizer vaccines twice, and we have also abandoned from Modern vaccines (this has already been said earlier). But it did not come from the Ministry of Health at a time when there were various calls from politicians and journalists who carried out various studies. These studies also differed from those carried out within the Ministry of Health by examining themselves. When you read some of the studies, you get the impression that today's great culprit, who is named, - the Murman-Umbrashko, who is being reduced in office - was, in fact, the person who, as a result of other research, was the person who in Latvia in general... In general, vaccines as such have been purchased with the exception of AstraZeneca. I think colleagues, there is a very great deal of work here to remove these doubts to get clear answers to this: there was or there was no influence of any lobby on decision-making, how everything has been transparent, what has been the influence of the parties' sponsors on these decisions... and many other issues. At the same time, these restrictions also have an impact on the economy. We see what is happening to airports, how airports in our neighbouring countries are developing, how these decisions have been assessed... from risk analysis in the definition of restrictions... These small shops, sports... There are so many different experiences here in our neighbourhood. And we see how badly our government has succeeded in adopting these restrictions in some way and the consequences not only for health but also for the economy as a whole. Colleagues, these are the questions that we would like to ask. We believe that they must provide the public with very clear answers, as well as with regard to health; not only with regard to the Covid-19, but also with regard to health management as a whole, on what happened last summer, when the opposition already signalled on certain things that could be if the society's wave came back on top, on social homes and other issues. Why were decisions not made in time regarding hospital conversions, the repair of individual hospitals so as to prepare for the time when the community's patients... What if this second wave is happening? Why did this not happen when it was to happen? Why was it to be expected that this crisis was taking place and then accepting something... various decisions? Why could the purchase of vaccines and the organisation process as a whole not be prepared when it had to prepare and prepare properly, but at the last moment? At the moment, we see what the result is. We're still... in essence, we have not actually launched such a serious vaccination campaign, and citizens, after every decision taken, at the discretion of each government... literally even every week... faith in the vaccination process as a whole is lost precisely because of decisions taken by the government. We see what happened when these large vaccination centres were opened. Doctors' certificates... What was not suddenly required! This communication with citizens is so chaotic that it is difficult to explain. I want to say at one point: “It’s enough! Stop making these mistakes! Start to lead at last as hosts of this crisis! Approach these questions with responsibility. Do not let this ship swim simply, drift into the sea as if it had no captain at all!” Finally, we need to take responsibility. General irresponsibleness - that is what is being said in response to Members' requests. It is expressed in a public space. The questions are... One shows the other, there's no real blame. There are common governments, common groups, different coalitions, formats and more different... Colleagues! In my opinion, it would not be appropriate to continue in this way. In my opinion, the Saeima must carry out this investigation, set up this committee of inquiry, understand these issues, provide answers to what has led to it, who is responsible for it, and also make proposals, a vision for it to happen after this summer, next autumn... if there is now the fourth and fifth wave of the Covide, to have precise guidelines, to have precise recommendations, precise conclusions, so that both civil servants and government politicians, as well as local government politicians, work responsibly and make sure that these mistakes end once and that we work in such a way that people can exit this crisis as soon as possible. On such a path as the work is currently organised - that no one is responsible for anything, that everyone is doing something, the lobbyists are walking around, the shadows of suspicion around every movement... This simply has to end. I hope that this committee of inquiry will contribute to this, and I will tell you... Thank you very much to any Member who has engaged in his work, with his contribution to the creation of this committee of inquiry. Thank you very much, and I call for a productive, mutually respectful work in this commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2234-U3	Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2234-U4	I ask you to unite the times.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2234-U5	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2234-U6	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Trust, respect, and reputation cannot be bought even for all the riches of the world. And when analysing the government's actions in the process of managing the Covid-19 pandemic, we see that the Cabinet of Ministers has made gross errors in its laws and regulations. A complex approach is still lacking to address the crisis. Let me just mention some of the coalition’s “developings”. Human rights restrictions and command hours. Of course, restrictions on human rights are possible in accordance with Article 116 of the Satversme, but now, however, restrictions in trade venues and in the field of sport appear and are absolutely illogical. Prohibitions and restrictions must be rationally justified and understandable to people. Strange and contradictory lists of permitted and prohibited goods. Students and students have not been attending educational institutions for a year. Inconsistency and irresponsibility are still present in the vaccination process organisation. For example, according to media reports, many non-risk groups received invitations and were vaccinated against Covid-19 following the opening of vaccination centres. At the same time, several persons belonging to risk groups who registered in time on the site manovaccina.lv and want to vaccinate have not received invitations. The Parliament is therefore also obliged to clarify what consideration was given to the failure to comply with the vaccination procedures announced publicly by the Minister for Health. It should also be borne in mind that Latvia continues to compete for the first place in the European Union at a slow pace of vaccination. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the Prosecutor-General has decided to launch a full inspection of the decisions on the purchase of vaccines at the Ministry of Health. The investigation of the prosecutor will assess all circumstances relating to the purchase of vaccines and the situation resulting therefrom. In general, the loss chain of the vaccine portfolio is huge for the country as a whole, as well as for the economy and the economy. The economy will be frozen for a long time because people have not been vaccinated in time and will not be vaccinated so that all restrictions can be lifted. More generally, Latvia is the third poorest country in the European Union with dramatic income inequality. This shows that the Cabinet of Ministers does not create a balanced and understandable social policy. Unfortunately, during the Covid-19 pandemic, the mistakes of power parties draw close to the shortage of many people who are neither sloths nor drunkards. Many people in our country have lost their income in a catastrophic way. Therefore, at present there are very many unhappy and angry people in Latvia. A fifth of the population or 407 thousand people are exposed to the risk of poverty in the Republic of Latvia in general. We therefore need to spend more on tackling social problems and reducing inequalities. The most important thing now is to find solutions to reduce poverty in Latvia, and to correct the most painful mistakes made by the government, for example, to review unthinking, chaotic and spontaneous restrictions. And it would be right to support professional and competent people who have a sense of what is in the sector and how to manage the sector wisely. Having carefully examined the situation, I have come to the conclusion that the government is not facing the challenges of the pandemic, so many people in Latvia now have bitter tastes in their mouth. I believe that mistakes affecting the fate of many people can be severely punished. And more. There were, there are and there will be many issues on the opposition agenda relating to the basic survival of people. The opposition initiatives relate mainly to issues that are important for all citizens in this period: the purchase of vaccines, the inability of the Ministry of Health to organise work, the situation in social care centres and so on. I therefore call for the creation of a parliamentary committee of inquiry of the Saeima to investigate the wrong actions of the Latvian government in the Covid-19 pandemic management process and to name the names of those political officials who have irreversibly negative consequences for Latvia. I call for the responsibility of both ministers and other politicians to be assessed. Dear colleagues, Seeing injustice and not doing anything - that means taking part in it itself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2234-U7	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2234-U8	Good afternoon, everybody! It is essential to stress that a democratic state is impossible without it. If there is no possibility for the leaders of the people, Parliament will not be able (A sound breakdown.) ... Fathers of the Constitution also understood this well, and they provided in our Constitution certain instruments with which the parliament can control the executive power. That is, these are all-known and listed today - Members' questions, Members' requests and parliamentary committees of inquiry. Unfortunately, further legislation in our country was designed in such a way that these instruments could be profiled, i.e. rendered meaningless. so that these instruments can be profiled, i.e. rendered meaningless. In fact, it is really happening at the moment that all these instruments are actually very difficult to use to achieve a real result, because they can, by their very nature, all be ignored. Any questions put by Members may be answered or not, in substance, answered at all. And the requests made by Members, even if they are prepared and they reveal facts that specifically point to the need to investigate them further or, at least, to debate them here in the Saeima, are simply rejected so that such a debate is not possible at all. simply rejected so that such a debate would not be possible at all. On the other hand, it is done to the committees of inquiry that, although this possibility provided for in the Constitution - for the opposition to convene a parliamentary committee of inquiry - cannot be circumvented by law, it can be circumvented by the fact that the law of the parliamentary committees of inquiry provides that power itself, i.e. the coalition, will be the one who can elect the chairman of this committee of inquiry and set the agenda of this committee. And so that's why we have the investigation committees after each other to fail. Then big results are meaningless (A sound break.) ... ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2234-U9	Dear colleagues, We keep sitting after a technical break. So in the debate on the draft decision, Ivars Zarins has the floor. Mr Zarins, you need to come up again for a debate if you want to continue to speak. So the name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2234-U10	I don't know.... So I'm going to start again, as I understand. So, colleagues, what I wanted to stress - in a democratic country... A democratic state is impossible without it... It is not possible if it does not provide for an effective opportunity for the parliament, that is to say, the leaders of the people, to monitor the executive power. This was well understood by the Constitutional Fathers, and they provided such concrete instruments in the Constitution for Parliament - questions, requests and committees of inquiry. Unfortunately, further legislation in our country was designed to make all these instruments almost meaningless. That is what we have already experienced many times. We know that Members' questions can answer something or almost nothing at all. We know that the requests that are being made... Even if they decipher and show obvious facts which should be further investigated and which should at least be debated by the Saeima, these requests are rejected as unfounded, in order to prevent only such a debate within the Saeima. is rejected as unfounded, so that only such a debate in the Saeima is avoided. The same as we know is true of the committees of inquiry. Although the opposition has the opportunity to set up such committees of inquiry... The opposition has the following specific rights, the Constitution provides that a minority of the Saeima may set up such a commission, it must be implemented, and it cannot be circumvented by law, but is nevertheless circumvented by law... That is, how will this commission work? I mean, who's going to run this commission? The law stipulates that under the chairmanship of this commission... that the Head of the Commission may be appointed by those political forces whose activities should be investigated. So these commissions become absurd formations. And that's one of the reasons why I've always been so sceptical about these investigation commissions. For my part, however, I have never refused - if colleagues are prepared to try again to set up an investigative commission - to support it with their signature; I have also done so. However, I see that it is most sensible to continue to use the other instruments, namely, even the same demands. With great perseverance, once again and again, promised to go ahead, every step can move forward and investigate. And that's what I'm going to do, regardless of these investigation commissions. What I've already taken here concerns both the purchase of vaccines and these scandalous masks, the purchase of respiratory-respirators, and... new nuances appear. For all these things, I have already managed to obtain facts that could also be useful for the parliamentary committee of inquiry. And my view would be, however, that if we wanted these commissions to work in real terms, then parallel amendments should be made to the law of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry, namely to provide for a logical and obvious thing in this law that had already been intended by the Constitutional Fathers, namely to provide that the management of this Commission of Inquiry is elected from those who have initiated the commission, so those who wish to investigate it. This would be a very logical and justified legislative initiative. That is, those who have initiated this commission of inquiry would have both the opportunity and the responsibility to achieve or demonstrate the Commission's own results to the general public, to whom they are capable or unable to do so - so that they could not say afterwards that, you see, because the management did not want to investigate what had to be investigated, there is no result either. Such an amendment to the law of the Parliamentary Investigation Commissions has now also been prepared and led in parallel with this draft decision on the establishment of this Investigation Commission; in that case, we could see who really wants to be investigated, these possible scenarios, which have been carried out under an emergency cover, and who wants to be covered. What is strange - that it is precisely those who call themselves the real opposition - who refused to sign this initiative, which would make the parliamentary investigation meaningful. They have not signed! And that is why, today, we cannot, together with this draft decision on the establishment of a parliamentary investigation, look at and push forward these amendments to the law of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry, which would enable the opposition to investigate all these disorders. So the "real" opposition objected to the possibility for the opposition to implement what is provided for in the Constitution - a real monitoring of the executive power. And that is, of course, very strange, but it remains probably on the conscience of these people, and that is the question of their constituents. Personally, I hope that this commission will try to do more than it did in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2234-U11	I closed the debate. Colleagues, so we have to vote on this draft decision. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the parliamentary committee of inquiry of the Saeima “To investigate the wrong actions of the Latvian government in the process of managing the Covid-19 pandemic, by nameing the names of the political officials who have irreversibly negative consequences for Latvia!” creation’! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting has been examined. Questions have been put to Members. Members Cilevičs, Agešins, Rubiks, Lochmele and Tutin have submitted the question “On vaccination procedures”, which we submit to the Minister for Health for response. Members Sprūde, Stepanenko, Gobzems, Valainis and Krauze have submitted the question “On the spread of infectious diseases in Latvia”, which we submit to the Minister of Health for their response. Members Stepanenko, Švecova, Sprūde, Gobzems and Valainis have submitted the question “On the issue of the Vaccination Newspaper, the operation of the vaccination project office and possible public health risks when using the facial tissue masks processed by SILVADUR 930 FLEX” that we give to the Minister of Health to respond. Members Zarins, Agešins, Lochmele, Orlovs and Clementjevs have tabled a question “On non-compliance with your statistics on Covid–19 prevalence”. Member Ivars Zarins has the floor to motivate the question. Mr. Zarins, you have to apply if you want to motivate the question. So the name to the Member Ivars Zarins to motivate the question.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2234-U12	Yeah, thank you. This question relates to the way in which our comma test is calculated... and statistics on this infection. Why are we making the question again? Of the data submitted by the Ministry of Health, we see obvious discrepancies. We have received data showing the number of tests we have carried out on a day-by-day basis. We have received data in which we see the number of positive tests on a day-by-day basis. We've also received data on how many of them have been newly infected... and how many of them have been unique tests. By putting it all together, we get very strange statistics that one day has been... For example, there have been 15 repeated tests, while the number of repeated positive tests has been 155. And there have been so many days when there are such impossible discrepancies. We ask the Ministry of Health to explain these discrepancies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2234-U13	So we refer the question to the Minister for Health for a reply. And Members of Stepanenko, Švecova, Sprūde, Gobzem and Papule have tabled the question “On state-paid antibody tests for employees of educational institutions before vaccination”, which is submitted to the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavlut for reply. Time for notification. Dear colleagues, Let us return to the agenda of the first remote emergency session on 8 April at 17.00. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. And I closed my third remote emergency sitting on April 8. So we'll see you at 5 p.m.
