ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U1	Dear Members, Honourable Members! The agenda of the second remote extraordinary session of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 22 December 2021 is open. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection”. The Saeima Bureau proposes to refer the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection”, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pollution” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are Members against referrals to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item is "Transfers of draft law to commissions and 1st reading". The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Civil Procedure” submitted by the Legal Commission be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Mr. Butane, you have reservations about the transfer to the Legal Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U2	I wanted to report on the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U3	About it then, Mr. Butane. Thank you, Mr. Butan. We are now just transferring it to the Legal Commission. So Members do not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. And now we can start the examination of the draft law, because the Saeima Bureau has received a request from the Legal Commission to refer the draft law only to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, and the Commission has asked the draft law to be examined at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Butan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U4	Good afternoon, colleagues! I informed that at the meeting of the Legal Commission on 21 December, the draft law drawn up by the Ministry of Justice “Amendments to the Law on Civil Procedure” (No. 1279/Lp13). The Legal Commission examined the draft law and supported its progress in the Saeima. I would like to draw attention to the topicality of the draft law. On 11 November 2021, the Saeima adopted and came into force on 1 December 2021 a large-scale law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law”, which concerns the implementation of e-case in courts. The working group of the Ministry of Justice, having heard the opinions of legal experts and representatives of courts, has found in practice shortcomings which need to be rectified by making urgent amendments to the law on civil procedure. The Legal Commission recognised the said draft law as urgent and asked the Saeima to support the urgency of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U5	So, first of all, we must vote in favour of declaring the draft law urgent. Members have not applied to speak about or against. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! No, 69, against and refrains. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U6	In accordance with Rule 86 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Commission requests that the draft law be examined at first reading without re-examination by the Legal Commission. Taking into account the third paragraph of Rule 92 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, i.e. if none of the...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U7	Mr Butane, we must first vote in favour of the first reading. We only voted in favour of recognition as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U8	Yeah, very good.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U9	So Members have not applied for the first reading in the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law”! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals and for the session of the Saeima for the second, final, reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U10	In the light of the third paragraph of Rule 92 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, namely that none of those present who are entitled to submit proposals in accordance with Rule 95 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure shall object to the fact that the deadline for the submission of proposals may not be fixed and the draft law recognised as urgent at second reading may be examined immediately after its adoption at first reading... At the meeting of the Commission, one of the potential applicants - the Ministry of Justice - and the Legal Bureau said that they would not submit their proposals. As a result, the Saeima on the urgent draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” (No. ) for the second, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U11	Do Members have reservations that this draft law is being examined immediately in the second, final, reading session of this sitting? If someone has reservations, please apply. Thus, there is no objection to Members. We can decide to support the draft law at second, final, reading. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law”! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. The next part of the sitting of the Saeima, entitled "Review of draft decisions". On the agenda - draft decision on extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the Law on the Protection and Management of the Marine Environment (No. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U12	Hello! The following draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals for a particular draft law (No. 1218/Lp13)... I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U13	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals to the Law on the Protection and Management of the Marine Environment (No. 1218/Lp13) for the second reading until 13 January 2022’. Please vote mode! For - 71, for - no, for - 1. Decision adopted. On the agenda of the next sitting – draft decision “On Cabinet of Ministers Order of 7 December 2021 No. 930 amending Order No 9 October 2021 720 ‘Advertising the Emergency’. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Maris Možvillo. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U14	Hello, chair of the sitting! Hello, colleagues! Hello, viewers, listeners! We work with document number 816/Lm13. These amendments 930 is an amendment to the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No. 720. What is included in these amendments? They will provide for a more accurate determination of visitor flows that are present with children when children do not have a vaccination or congestion certificate. It is planned to remove the condition to separate flows to families with children without a vaccination or congestion certificate in an epidemiologically safe environment. The condition requires that services and activities related to seat positions do not require separation of flows with parents and children without a vaccination and congestion certificate from other visitors in an epidemiologically safe environment. However, in sports clubs, attractions and similar places connected with physical activity or where facial masks are not used, the condition to separate parents with children without a vaccination and congestion certificate from other visitors is maintained. Extension of working time for the provision of economic services and events until 2 p.m. Increase the number of people in catering facilities to ten to enable large households (four adults and six children) to sit at one table. Also, the conditions are changed that one household may be located next to the seating position without a distance at the events. It is specified that ‘positioning alternately’ means that none of those sitting together sit in front and behind, or in the front or in the rear row. Thus, if ten people sit together, ten seats should be left for this group in the front and rear row. The next item is the one that determines... also the conduct of qualification examinations... providing for different regulations on the conduct of professional qualifications examinations. Then one of the points that is being corrected concerns Riga Airport. Currently, there are rights for people arriving in Latvia via Riga Airport to voluntarily carry out Covid-19 tests on public funds. There is also a condition that employees of the State Police, the State Border Guard and Riga Airport may order certain passengers arriving from particularly high-risk countries to carry out Covid-19 tests. It is also stipulated that these passengers are required to go to their place of residence or residence and comply with self-insulation until the result of the negative test. Given the motivation and understanding of epidemiological safety measures by people who voluntarily carry out the Covid-19 test, it is not necessary to impose on these people an obligation to comply with self-insulation. This text of the order specifies and determines that the obligation to comply with self-insulation until the negative Covid-19 test results are communicated to persons arriving from the country with a particularly high risk of Covid-19 spread, and to those who, with the instructions of the employees of the State Police, Border Guard or Riga Airport, are obliged to carry out the Covid-19 test. Next. On information exchange between the National Health Service and the State Revenue Service. Currently, one of the points provides that the National Health Service is entitled to transfer to the State Revenue Service data on persons who have started vaccination or who have an interoperable certificate certifying vaccination against Covid-19 or the fact that this infection is overloaded, or who may not carry out vaccination on the basis of the opinion of specialists of the Clinical University Hospital or the decision of doctors of the Clinical University Hospital on the necessity to postpone vaccination, so that the State Revenue Service, using the data provided by the National Health Service, may prepare a decision on the support of wage subsidies in accordance with the Regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of 10 November 2020. 675 ‘Regulations on the continuation of aid to taxpayers in the context of the Covid-19 crisis’. In this case it is foreseen that the National Health Service sends data according to the legislation to the State Revenue Service in order to manage the granting of these wage subsidies. One... The last point in those amendments is that ‘to amend the Emergency Order No. 720, with a short-term perspective and potentially high focus." Account must also be taken of the demand for bonuses to the boards of the capital companies. Amendments would allow allowances to be made to the boards of medical institutions for a period of... not earlier than October, clearly rebutting it in an annotation of the order. Medical institutions, a public-owned company and a public private-capital company, may grant a premium to members of the board and to the chairmen of the board for work in sensitive conditions of risk and stress due to an outbreak of Covid-19 infectious disease and its consequences. The need to grant the premium shall be determined by the holder of the capital shares of the medical institution concerned. The expenditure related to the premiums shall be charged to the national budget programme in accordance with the amount actually required. These amendments were discussed by the Commission and were not adopted unanimously. I call on my colleagues to support these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U15	Thank you. That is why Members have not applied for the draft decision. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On Cabinet of Ministers Order of 7 December 2021 No. 930 amending Order No 9 October 2021 720 “Advertising the Emergency”! Please vote mode! For - 48, for - 13, for - 1. Decision adopted. The next draft decision on the order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 14 December 2021 No. 960 amending Order of 9 October 2021 No. 720 ‘Advertising the Emergency’. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Maris Možvillo. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U16	Good afternoon, colleagues! We're working on a document about... So, one minute... One moment... No 814/Lm13. And this document is an amendment to the Cabinet of Ministers regulations. 720. It provides for clarification of the gathering in a secure regime for religious activity. Thus, through the introduction of a safety-free regime framework, places of religious activity were divided into separate points in order to make the epidemiological safety requirements for these places transparent. However, paragraph 5.24.3 of the Order was reworded as amended by paragraph 5.24.3 of the Order of 7 December 2021, providing for requirements concerning the layout of seats in public events, without specifying the regulatory relationship to the layout of seats in places of religious activity (paragraph 5.2.6.2 of the Ordinance). This has led to a lack of consistency in the framework of safe regime measures that need to be removed in order to ensure the uniformity of the legal framework with regard to the requirements of different types of assembly. The amendment provides for the application of the requirements of paragraph 5.24.3 of the Ordinance to religious gatherings. The solution is that in order to ensure the uniformity of the legal framework with regard to the requirements of different types of assembly both at places of religious activity and at public events, the amendment of the Ordinance provides for the application of the requirements of paragraph 5.24.3 to places of religious activity as well. The legal framework for these amendments, if no seat is provided for people during the assembly, is not amended. That would be a report from the Commission. This was unanimously supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U17	Thank you. We launched a debate on the draft decision. The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U18	Thank you to the President for giving me the floor. Colleagues! We almost every day see events outside... outside the walls of the Saeima, outside the usual living environment. And these amendments to the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers come in one by one as hot pies. This means that the work of the Cabinet of Ministers... and these prepared amendments also prove only that the Cabinet is not able to manage this situation at the moment. And we see again in a public space - the Minister for Health instead of realizing that two years have passed and this scare and fear tactic is not working... Colleagues, we need to understand that, in this case, we call this virus what we want - 'omicron' or any other name - we cannot scare people for as many years as we know. I still stand by my conviction that the compulsory vaccination is a mistake and that people are now being made slaves to their fears. If at first with the slogan “Trust in Science!” All followed more or less this scientific knowledge, all followed the advice of local scientists and tried to follow this safe distance, tried to follow all the rules, and the public now had the impression that it was not worth it. The next letter will come, and the same will continue. On social networks, I asked the public what I have to say to the Members of the Saeima, so that they understand that the Cabinet is not in a position to lead the country at the moment, their actions have now led to a destabilisation of the total situation, to a totality, to say that there is no forced option: there is no choice left to people. Some people have been denied income at all. And in this case we find ourselves in such an unpleasant situation - the people no longer believe in the Cabinet of Ministers or the Saeima. We also see this in the sociological surveys. Yeah, there's gonna be desperate stories. People die in hospitals. Yeah, it's a tragedy for every family if someone else dies. It's a family tragedy, it's a tragedy for everyone. However, in this situation you do not work “Trust in Science!” . Also, those who believe in science who have gone away from vaccination continue to become ill and continue to die. This is also demonstrated by data. It is therefore difficult, difficult to justify why this is still going on in Latvia - with intimidation. I've also offered... in several audiences... that Latvia should perhaps, however, choose a Swedish scenario where we see that the country has not stopped, people understand the functioning of the government and support. We have to cut this node and think differently, because otherwise... on the existing policy, we will be in an ever-increasing bog. I think that by permanently amending these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, we are introducing even greater uncertainty. Colleagues, I call not to support these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers and send them back to the Cabinet of Ministers for recasting, to develop these rules according to the real situation and to stop dividing society, marking this society and then sorting it up and preventing people from earning income, working in their work and maintaining families. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U19	Name to Member Juris Rancan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U20	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I would like to talk about these amendments, which are changing fast enough, and we are looking at them almost every week. I would say on the contrary! - the government is reacting very quickly to the very changing situation in the area of co-infection. There are, of course, separate members of the opposition who are trying to present that the ideal option would be to adopt amendments once and not to do anything for a while, regardless of how the situation changes. I believe that such an approach and policy would be absolutely wrong. The government must act in an appropriate changing way, and the government is doing so. What I would like to say about Sweden, which is mentioned to us as an example. What is being defaulted, its second half, is the attitude of the Swedish society itself towards the restrictions and vaccinations imposed by the government. In Sweden, the situation is completely different: the public is prepared to engage in good faith, and this society has vaccinated and respected restrictions in good faith, so they have obviously better cooperation and therefore... They also had a dramatic situation. If we look at the publications, some Swedish immunologists have also admitted that they were wrong with such a policy... and they have suffered quite a lot of sacrifices. In our case, it is clear that the government will never be good for all. At the moment, the government has gone against and allowed the churches to establish a red regime, or - without certificates. We know that supermarkets are also allowed to work more with the next order. There will always be someone dissatisfied. In this case, frustration is on the part of the opposition, which is absolutely normal; it is their duty to criticise us, but I would say that at times there is nothing constructive. Now we have to offer... So what do you do?Oh, no, no, no, no, Do not respond to the change in the situation? Do not change rules according to how the situation changes? No, no, no. I reject all the accusations by Mr Možvillo as absolutely unfounded. I would like to point out that... We can see that at the moment in Europe, the next Covid-19 - the omicron variant - is at risk, and now say that we could go back to... or re-introduce something like a Swedish model... at the existing vaccination coverage... I can't see any chance, because in case... Then, when this wave of omicron reaches Latvia and if we have an overload of hospitals and again there will be a huge number of dead, the government will once again say that it has not listened to experts and has not acted... including the Saeima, legitimising these orders, has not done anything to strengthen the restrictions. So I am calling for support, however, for the order in question. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U21	The name to the Member, Maris Mozhville, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U22	Thank you for your word. Of course, Mr Rancan will try to defend the coalition's position, which is absolutely understandable. That is why the opposition is also needed to point out some errors that the position Members may not notice behind their windows because they do not actually live in an environment where other Members, including the opposition, live. We are always invited to trust in science. Science also makes mistakes, and scientists do not share the same view. Also about vaccination, also about the side effects of vaccinated people, as well as about many of the positions that science currently conceals - our Latvian science. And here I would like to mention one situation in the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption when Mr Perevoščikov showed vaccination data (comparison) for Sweden and Latvia. In Sweden, the vaccination rate in the 60+ risk group was more than 90 percent, while in Latvia there were 60 beaks. In turn, in the 17+ age group, we were inversely proportional - we had a higher level of reach and activity than in Sweden. I call for more attention to be paid to risk groups and not to touch the 17th and working people. Let these people learn, let them work, and do not mark people as sheep and try to control this bar. The nation wants to live freely, not with some imaginary square codes that may limit the virus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U23	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U24	Dear President, Honourable Members! Just a few remarks. I think it is too late at the moment to change something, and I call for this proposal to be supported. Why? I think we made a very big mistake at the very beginning without applying the tactic that I have already said about, that is, Tegnall - the main immunologist in Sweden and responsible for all these processes - tactic: not to vaccinate young children, not to carry masks in schools and allow everyone to get sick... excluding the vaccination of the elderly. I see that on 16 December, one person from 10 million, on 15 December (it is the statistics that are currently in existence) died in Sweden: two people. So, unlike... In Latvia, mortality is several tens of times higher. In Latvia we made quite a mistake, I think. We have more than 1,300 teachers for this moment. In Latvia this situation was not bright. In particular there is a shortage of physics and mathematics teachers. The introduction of compulsory vaccination for teachers was completely pointless if it was not prescribed for children. Of course, I admit that there was a wrong idea that vaccination would in some way prevent the spread of the virus. We can see that in the Netherlands... I look at the strict restrictions imposed in Denmark, where vaccination, including old people, is much higher than in Latvia, leading to more disease than in Latvia. So the whole theory is completely wrong, obviously the same restrictions should be imposed on vaccinated people as unvaccinated people. It is good that the Cabinet of Ministers has proposed to lay down some facilitations on trade holidays, with regard to various, let us say, church visits and other events, but, accepting what Mr Možvillo says, it is unfortunately too late to do something, so we must vote in this case in favour of this proposal. I think it was quite catastrophic to make a decision on youth sport. If you look at it, there is virtually no mortality at the age of 20. If one or two are dead, it is not mainly because of this virus, but because there have been some underlying diseases. As a result - unlike Sweden - we have broken immunity for many. Of course, we can argue, we had a long-standing discussion with the Minister for Health at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, he said that we are now studying the experiences of different countries. But what is the point of studying the experiences of different countries if there is no mortality or disease in two countries - South Africa, where there are tens of million inhabitants, or Sweden, where there are about 10 million inhabitants? In South Africa, vaccination is 25 percent, in Sweden it is high, but in Sweden (I have been there several times now) there was no need to carry masks in schools. And the fact that they used this tactic... Of course, at the beginning there were mistakes... and cast first seniors in the homes of the old people, eliminating mortality, but absolutely not reassuring students, children and creating the immunity of the crowd... So their example showed... and today's example, where I said that mortality was... On the same 16 December and later - one, two, three people for 10 million... Their tactic has been correct. I'm sorry we didn't choose this tactic. It's a shame that more than 130 young people have left... For example, when it comes to hockeys, because various sports boarding schools in Europe - Switzerland, Austria, Sweden - welcome them with great pleasure. Some have moved to the United States. I think this is a rather sad event. And the biggest point is that the number of those made redundant is now approaching somewhere... 70 thousand. And these people are not even able to get some kind of support, because all of them... nothing can be paid. A decision could still be made to prohibit them from walking on the trotula. And our commission of Mandates, ethics and petitions behind hypocrisy, let us say, punish those who compare it to wearing a yellow star. I call on this to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U25	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U26	Good afternoon, everybody! In response to the debate, I cannot agree at all with what Mr Rancan said that the opposition did not come with constructive proposals. I will give you a few examples, and you will have reason to suspect that perhaps the coalition is simply unable to respond constructively to and implement these proposals. One of the proposals I have been making to you long ago - perhaps even last year, certainly last year... if this were to be taken into account, there would have been a completely different situation, namely that one of the instruments - one of the essential instruments to help combat the spread of co-infection - is air quality. Air quality, because we know that the community is spreading in aerosol form, and there are studies by competent authorities demonstrating that, with some air quality (usually this limit is around 800 units of CO2), the community is very effective in limiting its spread. In a situation where we see that vaccination does not make it possible to limit this prevalence, it does, however, take place, with the introduction of such air quality requirements, perhaps more effective than vaccination, to limit the prevalence of the community, for example, by imposing such a requirement on supermarkets - not closing them, not preventing them from working, but on the contrary - by encouraging the community's environment to become safe. In this way, we would achieve the effect that would have been necessary for a long time - that we are reducing the density of assembly and making the environment even safer. What did you do? On the contrary, when you make decisions that force you on those who are most at risk of getting infected, you then get sick and get to the hospital... you create special conditions for them to compress them more closely together so that infection can occur. One concrete example. The second concrete example of what Mr Kirstein has just mentioned is about learning. It would also have been better to make sure that there is a choice in schools instead of compulsory vaccination for teachers - if it really is necessary to keep teachers, perhaps it would have been much more rational and correct to create these air quality conditions in the classroom. This could be achieved by perhaps much less means than those that we now spend in one school for testing, instead of simply creating a community-friendly environment and preventing the infection from spreading there. And the millions you dedicated to all kinds of pointless research, I called on you, better put in the study and make a concrete methodology, like schools... ventilation solutions that can be diverse and absolutely unexpensive, they could be local... using even what is... achieve this air quality. Consider an example. Why aren't you doing this? Why are you unable to do this? Why have you just ripped... to vaccination? Because you're afraid that society, the whole nation of Latvia, sees your failure, your incompetentness, especially if it's connected to the community. So as the only way out for yourself, you see that you need... You have simply hoped that we will all be vaccinated and then there will be a solution, we will no longer have to make responsible and competent decisions, because the vaccination will solve everything. Therefore, you are making all this solution so that people are forced to get vaccinated, not because you want to take care of their health, but because in this way you are hoping to get out of this testimonial that you are frail and incompetent. As a result, you make increasingly incompetent decisions and then correct those incompetent, inadequate decisions with other incompetent, inadequate decisions. That's why we're so often... And then you're telling me that you're effectively responding to the situation. You're not fucking responding! There's the thing that you're reacting to just that... as a driver who has already entered the pit when he thinks what should I have done? And as a result of that car that you... lead, our country... is finally clad. And that's the reality. I'm calling... I am not ready to support this next step of your irresponsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U27	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U28	Hello, honourable leader of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, Of course, it is not ideal: we are making mistakes and very many mistakes, and it takes a whole year for it to be recognised or not recognised at all. What Mr Kirstein said about children and sports. We fought a lot for this: to allow children to engage in sports schools, but unfortunately there was no support. And the fact that it was impossible for children to do sports for a whole winter or for a whole year... We will feel it after that, after some years, because there are 42 000 children working in sport and studying in schools. So they're gonna lose for a while. That is the fact. It is not for nothing that Prime Minister Kariņš called for working with the opposition during this period of the community, working closely, but we do not even see here in the Saeima. We have put forward our arguments many times, our proposals, but unfortunately there was no support because the position thinks: no, we are on the right track, and that is all. I, too, want to see the Ministry of Education and Science much more, much more active, not only in the school sector, but also in the same sport sector, which is also subject to it - resolved, we need to look for it. We still do not know what those researches are, how the community is spreading, or whether there are viruses in the waters. If, one year ago, we wrote all orders that you can allow swimming, where there are three square meters, but water is always measured by cubic meters, we are now writing orders - so 10 meters in the width of the water... We can learn from this too. I also need to look at what is happening around, for example, I am talking about the organisation of work in supermarkets, that we need a guard at every entrance and that we do not miss masks. It was very “difficult” to observe because supermarkets earn millions and cannot donate one thousand to a security officer to take control of him. Now, in a year's time, it turns out that you can... and check community passports if you want to work. Like in others... For example, organization of work in the Central Market - not by 10 entrances allow people to go, but only by one... on one side, which means that all its gathering takes place in one strip... line... Those coming to the Central Market are being threatened much more. So let's think with your mind... head - what is what can do, what can not do. And you don't just need to go to it with the Minister for Health... what to ban, ban, ban, and after we need - but we can't do anything, we don't know anything. And now... Since the new virus is already spreading and we don't know how it is spreading, but it is spreading very quickly... Maybe we need to limit now, right now... Don't let it, we don't go to Christmas to the United Kingdom... Then we'll get back and sit in the locdauna. We need to think about how to do better. Thank you, but I can't support this order, we're abstaining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U29	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U30	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, Of course, I can only join opposition colleagues who have mentioned that, yet... I'm in those positions too... and I believe that the link between the decisions of the government and the possibility of an objective response to the situation - in no way is this what would describe the government, especially at a time when, in my view, the government considers that not only this new form of virus is something that will not come to us, but I think the government is now of the opinion that the population also lives in such a way... a kind of barrel and see what is happening outside Latvia. Even in an EU where travel is free and anyone can travel to these countries peacefully... Christmas holidays have begun, I think many people in Latvia have gone somewhere to spend, but there are plenty enough for the virus to reach Latvia with such a known... an increasing trend. At this point, I see that a number of countries in the European Union are imposing new restrictions and are ready to combat this new form of virus. In Latvia we create reliefs and go in the opposite direction, ignoring what is happening beyond our borders, our open borders. We're... When it comes to revaccination, I really have the feeling that the government is living in a barrel. Several countries of the European Union set certain deadlines for these vaccination certificates, but we are living in some illusion that we will not, and this decision will come together with the common position of the European Union, but at the same time - whether our government is ready for such a turnaround by telling us at all times that revaccination will be needed here, there will not be a need for who it will be, who will not. Now, then, one six months, then three months. Absolutely no logic! At the same time, in my opinion, the situation with the revaccination process... in the already completely wrong situation, which is now with a basic vaccination course covering both the seniors and the entire population - it is still not fully satisfactory... We will now be receiving a new task of revaccination, to which this government is, of course, absolutely not ready, with regard to the new type of virus yet to open all the locks - let it come to come. We have just shown that we are absolutely unable to deal with this problem... We were one of Europe's leaders in mortality rates... in the world, morbidity rates... We've been overloading all of our hospitals. And all, after this experience, we continue on the same path. I do not know how the government thinks, but it is definitely not in the interests of our citizens. There are diseases outside the community that are common to people who suffer and find themselves in a very inconvenient situation. And at a time when hospitals are overloaded, almost every person in Latvia suffers from it, anyone who cannot receive basic health care. Does the government have a plan? The government has no plan to deal with both the ventilation systems that Mr. Zarins talked about here... I know that one city of the Greens/Farmers Union equipped every office with Latvian-made air quality meters. Every office was equipped. There, this issue was resolved. The government is now offering some selection... in municipalities to make purchases and choose from a specific list of what they can and cannot buy, making this process more difficult. Who needs this? Where is a strategic vision of the government? Colleagues, I think the government should also sit down on this Christmas holiday, think maybe it is worth working with the opposition closer and listening, not just talking about listening. Much of the truth is also in what I say and my colleagues say. And by the end. Colleagues, we will not support this either. But I really wish all of you a happy Christmas! Spend them with the close epidemiologically safe way, of course, and think about how we could jointly contribute to the development of the country next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U31	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U32	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Indeed, Mr Rancan is not particularly correct. Combating the pandemic is a common challenge for all of us. I think it's a responsibility, too. If we want to believe that the Saeima is co-responsible... The Cabinet of Ministers... The opposition's opinion must also be heard on the action taken in this area, as the opposition's proposals were sufficiently constructive and sufficiently consistent. One of them - a long time ago it was thought that vaccination cases should be concentrated in family doctor practice, because it is the practice of a family doctor - that is the centre that better knows the history, possibilities, limitations and everything else of each patient's disease. However, it is not only to shift this burden to family doctors, but also to transform family doctor practices by adapting them, broadening their possibilities, including an increase in funding for family doctor practices. The second proposal, which has already been discussed a great deal today, on air quality. The third thing that should be considered very seriously is that, when it comes to restrictions and infection, the proportion of vaccinated people is increasing among those who are infected, because now the latest data show that this is close to half. This means that this is not only about vaccination or revaccination, but also about restrictive measures that should be the same for vaccinees and unvaccinated ones. By the way, such a picture will also appear in the statistics of the dead, unfortunately. And this must be taken into account, because the biggest problem for the government is that it is sufficiently chaotic - a step forward, two steps backwards, and vice versa. That is the direction of the government when it comes to measures to curb the pandemic. I therefore think that only in close cooperation between the coalition and the opposition can we find objective and optimal solutions to these problems as well... fighting. Therefore, I do not think that the offer that has been made today is from the best and most supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U33	The name to Member Juris Rancan for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U34	Thank you. Colleagues! I'd like to... Here has been repeatedly said about air quality... I would invite representatives of the opposition, first of all, to get acquainted with the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No. 662 which regulates epidemiological safety requirements. In particular, paragraph 18, which refers to the need to ensure air quality both in supermarkets and in other places of service. So, paragraph 18, to be precise. And this same point 18 is mentioned once again - in paragraph 113 of this regulation, which deals with an educational institution. And secondly, I would call for the opposition, however... I would first of all like to show this absurdity and contradiction... Well, for example, you say - listen to the opposition. Mr Možville says that the restrictions are too strong and they must be released, Mr Valaiņš says, in turn, that the restrictions are too weak and that they need to be strengthened, and that the government is not doing anything. Well, which one of you to listen to, the respected opposition? That is why the government chooses to discuss this issue together with experts, listening, of course, to the social partners. And these decisions were made, balancing both epidemiological safety requirements and trying to limit economic activity as far as possible. Of course, this does not always work, but I would like to say that both the Saeima and the government, however, listen to all the parties before making a decision - that is the most balanced decision. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U35	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U36	Thank you to Mr Rancan for having taken up the debate. Anyone listening to this debate... I would like to point out that you have just been able to see this government failure, the failure of power and the absurdity of what is happening. You were told that this power believes it is actually acting, has adopted some amendments to the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. What is the point of all the regulations that I have now mentioned, even in relation to the same schools, if then you cannot actually implement it? The fact that you write something on paper, but you can't do it in real life, is no point in that. Specific examples: Somehow about schools... Well, what about this regulation, if you can't even fit the ventilation system in order, you can't even buy meters? You are making competitions there while the “needed” firm will probably win, with “needed” conditions, and still you haven’t done it all this time. More than a year has passed. Mr Rancan, I indicated this to your minister... to your new minister, on the first working day I sent you specific questions that would help you, to which she would understand what needs to be done. You haven't done anything about it. You're talking about supermarkets. So what is the point of all your requirements if you don't really make them work? It should have been said specifically that supermarkets that provide such and such air quality requirements can work safely in any mode, because there is little spread of this infection and there is virtually no transfer of it, providing the necessary air quality, as demonstrated by studies, laws of physics and biology. You have not done any of this, so you are absolutely incapable, you are only able to talk, write paperwork, but in real life you cannot do anything. And that's the result we see - the coach just doesn't know that you are the right ones to listen to, and the companion shows you the real reality... and the whole nation of Latvia. And all of you take this into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U37	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U38	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Hello, honourable Members! I didn't really mean to climb today and debate... but the debate is rather intense. And if I'm honest, I have absolutely no understanding of what's in this... There are both good things and bad things in all levels of regulation. I hear here - the bad coalition, I hear here - the bad opposition... Colleagues! I'm reminding you, the morgas doesn't separate anyone. It will not be that employees will come to the moor and say: this is from the opposition, this is not what we serve. Or the other way round: This is from coalition, we serve this... or, on the contrary, we do not. It won't be! Everyone is equal in the morals. And now I have a question, and that's a rhetorical question: who do I trust now? At the beginning of the week the Prime Minister, on whom I have voted, comes out and says: don't come up, be careful, during the holidays - assembly restrictions; the community is right behind our backs alone, be careful. Yesterday, the Cabinet of Ministers comes out with a message that it seems as if it is understandable that the community is somewhere behind the mountains and behind the lows: churches - open, supermarkets - open, bars, discotheques - open, everything is open. Today morning, the President of Latvia, whom I have also elected, says: please do not listen to the decision of the Cabinet. So, as a Member of the Saeima, how can I understand in principle where it is right now? And I look at the moor. You know where the biggest business is now... has happened in the last two years? It's a Morgu business. Really! I very much hope that none of the Cabinet of Ministers has a campaign in any moor company, funeral companies, and that it will not be used for selfish purposes, but right now I don't really understand how we... What do the doctors say? What did the doctors say? I understand that Mr. Ranzan can't speak any more, perhaps as a rapporteur... Oh, the rapporteur is Mozhville, that's not appropriate. But what do the doctors say about being open to Christmas, to New Year... by what date... And then we'll go to the locdauna... And then there's the 75th Demision for Pavilut. And what will we do then? I don't fully understand. What's the logic? I understand that these rules also contain things that should be... That's a thing. But now that everything is smashed into one of those things, go and now separate those nodes... then is incomprehensible. And that's why I don't understand how I'm on my own right now, against society... as a voter... support or not support this kind of “gate - open” because of what... This game “position-position” is over here because - I repeat - no morgs separates. The fact that there are three free beds left in the hospital means we can open the gates? No, I don't. The fact that we are happy at airports now... Well, to a free choice... We'll be able to do the tests, ask someone who's coming in... is that the answer? In my opinion, tests should have been compulsory. Because there are overflights. Those in transit, they'll go without tests, but those who've come here... You don't know where he comes from... It's been taken into Hamburg... Maybe he's been boarding, I don't know from... Well, you can't imagine where you come from, but surely... from Asia or wherever... And he just comes here. And now I have... Now where is the logic in this regard? I... Give me the answers, go to the platform - not only the opposition, because the moorg does not separate anyone, but also from the position. Well, explain. Karin says that, the Cabinet of Ministers does this, the President comes out and says: please, maybe you shouldn't... Well, say it in such a very diplomatic way. And now it happens that if, at one of the meetings of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Prime Minister has told us that the President has changed all of us for goats, then we are here completely some kind of messes in this situation right now. Why should we now run through our head, through our necks and support what the Cabinet of Ministers has supported yesterday when it comes to the crisis? What was the distribution of votes, I do not understand either. And a little bit of a bit to forget that we are the decision-making power, not the executive power? This is a huge difference, honourable Members, colleagues from both the opposition and the coalition. And if such a sense is given (understood what is your place in this legislative equipment), then maybe you can create some kind of these... some corrections or some clarification... Well, something... Explain to me, as a Member, what to do. Prime Minister - one, President - one, then Prime Minister - one...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U39	Mr President, you have an end to the time for the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U40	Thank you. Merry Christmas for You!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U41	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U42	Hello, colleagues! The problem is obvious. The problem is that, once again, the government does not act as a state, not as a human being, but as a political one. I am convinced that the last decision was based on just one: a desire to take care of ratings and their political future for the year in which the parliamentary elections will take place. Nothing else can explain this decision because... I can respond to Mr. Neighbours. Well, rather than doctors, but SPPC analysts clearly indicate - and this is illustrated by a mathematical model - that due to the arrival of the omicron in Latvia... and according to the data that our scientists received from the countries of Europe affected by the omicrone, we are really going to be very serious... even to the disastrous consequences if we allow this virus to spread. Answering Mr. Rancan for an alleged unconstructive opposition that... He's putting everything together - it doesn't matter what parties it's made up of, and so on. I think that if we act accordingly, then I could safely call the national socialists in this government liberal. I would like to see these faces when, for example, I call Mr Rancan liberal. But about constructive proposals. Apart from Mr Zarins' proposal to improve air quality with special equipment, there was another proposal, namely from me... I don't know how many times... for the transfer of the entire grafting process to family doctors. It became clear this week that the government will not, however, give two and a half million euros to family doctors to have a third assistant. There is still no normal human support for the vaccine - in the sense that there is no information. The Ministry of Health does not act proactively, and I have concrete evidence and examples that people in the 80+ pensioners are forced to call several times and wait three weeks to receive a booster vaccine at home. That's what they have to do at home. Once again, three weeks! Two months ago I asked the Minister for Health about the causes of disproportionate high mortality from Covid-19 in Latvia. The answer was very brief. In fact, the Ministry of Health recognised that the base cause of mortality is the very high number of unvaccinated people in the age group “60+”. Well, let's not talk about the general state of health of Latvian citizens... with an insufficient range of preventive measures in Latvia, and this is directly related to primary health care, namely the work of family doctors. And until the government is found next year in the budget, despite all the public debt and so on, these 2.5 million, we will not be able to talk about the fact that the government is not acting politically, but state-owned. At the moment, it is political and, lastly, this decision that you are proposing to us now to vote on is precisely a political, short-sighted and totally inadequate decision to maintain human health and life. It is an antihuman, anti-Stateist, and I call for this order not to be voted in favour. Maybe we could show that the Saeima has the ability to act stateally... Unlike the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U43	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U44	Colleagues! You see, we've been warned before... They promised us that when we were vaccinated... When about 70 percent of the entire nation has been vaccinated, we will be able to release everything. Now that we have reached 70 per cent (even a little more) - now we are told: no, but too little, it takes 90 per cent. But when we wait 90 percent, we'll say no, but it would be better if 100 percent, because there's another new... not just the omicron virus, but someone else may be. Two days ago, the Minister for Health also warned us that in January, as he predicted... I don't know, of course, what kind of data he predicted... He predicted that every day the disease... There may be three thousand every day... How do I understand... as far as I know, we have only 1200 limits on our beds. So I have a question for the government and for the Members of the position: what are you doing? You have now prepared to have at least 2000 beds in hospitals if these are serious forecasts? What will we do with these sick ones? This is very serious, and we do not need to start celebrating Christmas or New Year, we need to prepare seriously - to mobilise all our hospitals, not 1200, but 2000 or 2500 beds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U45	I closed the debate. Mr. Možville, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so? Mr. Mozhville, turn on the light... or turn on the camera.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U46	Yeah, I'm sorry. Mr. Kirštein won't debate? I see he's applied.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U47	The debate has already been closed.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U48	All right, all right. There is nothing more to add on behalf of the Commission. The Commission supported this order.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U49	Thank you. Mr Kirštein, the debate is already closed. I'm also tabling... information that you wish to debate appeared after the debate was closed. I invite you to apply in time. The debate is lengthy, you can do it in time. The Commission is therefore asking for support to be given to this draft decision. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On Cabinet of Ministers Order of 14 December 2021 No. 960 amending Order of 9 October 2021 No. 720 “Advertising the Emergency”! Please vote mode! For - 47, for - 3, for - 17. Decision adopted. Dear Members and honourable Members, As a result, we have dealt with all the issues on the agenda of today's second remote emergency session on 22 December 2021. Before the Members are registered, statements are made. Mārtiņš Bondars, Chairman of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, wishes to make the first statement. Please, Mr Bondar, apply. So, you have a name.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U50	Thank you. I didn't see just where to apply, I would have applied. The President of the sitting. Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! Resurrection! After five minutes - at 12.22 - we will start the meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, because we have received a bill that should be examined and awaited by Latvian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U51	Next word to Krišjānis Feldman, Chair of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U52	Given that the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission has also received today a draft law which should be examined very urgently, I call on you to attend the meeting of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission at 12.27. Links have already been sent to Members. See you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-22-PT13-2339-U53	Thank you. So the commissions will continue to work on those draft laws that have been passed on to the commissions. Colleagues, I invite you to follow the information on your phones. So you will get information in the form of a message when the Saeima Bureau has convened the next Saeima meeting today to continue to examine draft laws that we will receive from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. So I call on you to follow the information. As soon as the commission has finished its work, the Saeima Bureau will convene the third extraordinary remote sitting today. Only registration of the presence of Members. It's been a success. I'm closing this sitting. See you!
