ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! We will continue to examine the agenda for the remote emergency session on 4 November this year. On the agenda - Draft Law on Ports Act, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U2	Good morning, Chairman of the Saeima! Good morning, colleagues! Today we start with a very interesting draft law - Amendments to the Ports Act (No. 1045/Lp13). Perhaps the title of the draft law could change already in proposal 1, so let's not just take a moment, let's get to work. 1. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. Changes the title of the draft law to ‘The Ports Act’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U3	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U4	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, On this proposal I would like to say that I think this could be a good starting point for examining the draft law, because the proposal completely changes the title of the draft law. I would call on my honourable colleagues, when examining the draft law as a whole, to support other proposals - not only to change the title of this draft law, but also the substance, because the way it is presented at first reading... In my opinion, it is not something that could contribute to the development of ports. I call for support for proposal 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U5	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U6	There is absolutely nothing to add, except that no one is asking for a vote and that the proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U7	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U8	That's great. 2. - also the proposal from Member Valaiņa. In this case, we'll probably have... I have to say that the commission had a completely opposite view here. It is about completely changing Article 1... noting, moreover, that these governance principles, as the ports will be in the future, will be on an equal basis, which means, in essence, a fifty-fifty, i.e. 50 vs. 50 regulations. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U9	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Uldis Augums.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U10	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, This proposal is the aim of the law. As Mr Valaiņa said on the previous proposal, we believe that we need to move in a completely different direction, and I will try to argue why. I ask you to unite the times.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U11	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U12	Both state and municipal capital companies are established to operate in the field of private law. As both public and local authorities have a fundamental task of acting in the field of public law, their private law action is an exception. In order to fulfil functions and tasks of importance to the State and society in the field of public law, institutions are established and public persons are derived. Strategic tasks of the port authority are to be carried out in the area of public law, therefore the status of a public person is the most appropriate for the port authority. Currently, the draft law ignores the rights of the municipality and deprives the municipality of its property. Freeport of Ventspils covers 42.36 percent of the territory of Ventspils City Municipality. The ejection of a municipality from almost half of its territory violates the local government principle and Article 3 of the European Charter for Local Government. 54 percent of the Freeport of Ventspils area is owned by Ventspils City Municipality. The draft law forces the municipality to transfer all of this property to the holding of a capital company or an entity governed by private law. This means that the right of a municipality as owner to dispose of its property is effectively deprived, because with the draft law both the right to rent and lease the municipality's property and even the right to agree to the construction of the municipality's property is transferred to the capital company. In fact, the right of a capital company to dispose fully of the State and the municipality's property and to obtain all the benefits from it constitutes State aid. Such State aid, the total amount of which has not been fixed, is contrary to Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Commercial Aid Control Act. Since the right of a capital company to use state and municipal property is not limited in time, the total amount of State aid cannot be determined nor will it increase significantly with each subsequent year. It should be noted that the revenue from the lease of land, the rental of berths and the rental of premises constitute 41 per cent of the total current revenue of the port authority. This leads to the conclusion that, without such state support, the port authority would lose almost half of its income and would probably not be able to exist. The situation in which a capital company is unable to exist without permanent State aid does not satisfy the general conditions for State aid. The draft law nationalises the property of the municipality - the current property of the port administration, has created... port administrations as derived public persons, fully taking over the assets of municipal institutions and all these institutions, and using the state and municipal real estate in the territory of the port free of charge and receiving all related income. The fact that all the assets of the Freeport Authority, the substantial part of which has been formed by the use of municipal property, are invested in the capital company as a state contribution, is to be regarded as the actual nationalisation of municipal property. In the event of the liquidation of the port authorities, it is necessary to calculate the amount of the property created by the use of the municipal property and either to pay the municipality the share due to it or to invest it in the capital company as a contribution by the municipality. There is a lack of economic assessment and cost-effectiveness for assessing existing port authorities as public figures for the transformation of private individuals or capital companies. Paragraph 14 of the Transitional Provisions of the Law on Ports has been violated because no assessment of compliance of the Latvian port management model with international principles of good governance has been carried out. It is not justified why international good governance principles cannot be implemented in the existing port management model. Article 88 of the Law on State Administration has been violated because no economic assessment of the existing and planned activities of ports has been carried out and it is not justified that otherwise it is not possible to achieve the intended objectives effectively. When drafting the law, there were no consultations with the Competition Council and no opinions of the Competition Council were received. According to existing practice and Section 88(2) of the Law on State Administration, the Competition Council... About... Which... Public or municipal activities in the area of private law give opinions, this opinion is publicly available on the Competition Council's website. As regards the public limited liability company Venta port, such an opinion has not been received prior to its establishment in 2019 or at the present time. There has been no identification of the opportunities and wishes of market participants, as normally required by the Competition Council, and accordingly it has not been demonstrated that the private sector is not in a position to provide the service in question. The Competition Council requires that the legal and economic assessment of the participation be carried out for each of the economic activities and has not been carried out by the Ministry of Transport. I call on my fellow Members to support this and all our future proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U13	Thank you. The floor in the debate for Member Viktor Valainim.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U14	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I would like to draw attention to this proposal. In my opinion, this is very important and essential... Difference from the first-reading version supported by... Indeed, as the rapporteur has already said, there is an additional sentence here, ensuring both... when the port is running... this new port form works... ensuring equal and well-managed cooperation between the state and local authorities in port management. In other words, the main state and municipality cooperate on equal terms. I think this proposal is absolutely in place because, let us be honest, in the past years when ports have developed (and all the data show that previous years... Until this Saeima... Indeed, the ports developed), the main concern for the development of the ports was always taken by the municipality, and the municipality was of primary interest in the development of the port, both by making its investments and taking credit (guaranteeing its property and its assets), and indeed by taking care of cargo to create new production companies. For example, right here - in Ventspils - we can see how much the city has invested... and the city’s common strategy together with the port through the development of industrial areas. Fantastic results, no one can deny it, no matter how critical they would like to be. However, it has produced results. And also in Liepaja, if we look at what the role of the municipality has been since its inception, when in fact only the municipality was the one that started doing something and also achieved fantastic results. There is no doubt also in Riga, where without Riga such... The port of common involvement, which is found in the city, cannot even function normally. And now, when people from the managing body of ports, so to speak, are excluded from the field, we see what these results are. This proposed law involves the partial involvement of municipalities, and I think it is too little. If the state has a dominant position, the state will also have to take responsibility, and as a minority of municipalities will only be able to express their reflections, but they will not have such responsibility for... be a towing force. I think that by showing at this point that there is some kind of parity, that there is one to one, but the state and the municipalities see themselves equally, it would be the best. If we look at Europe - all the biggest ports or, whatever, any capital company... where are all these capital companies... we will see a completely opposite picture, see that the main shareholder is the municipality and all is based on the municipality and not on the state capital company. And I strongly doubt the fact that the state as a capital company is the main... where the main impact will be on the national side... I very much doubt if they... if in this way... I think that this capital company will be loss-making, as at present, for every capital company we see in terms of traffic. It is difficult to find one that would be profit-making at the present time, it was, at the present time, all of them are mostly giveable, and the question is, how much. In this case, we reduce the willingness of municipalities to engage with real activities in managing ports. This offer does not imply that municipalities take over ports, this offer provides that at least half... share this responsibility in a similar way and go further, so that all parties are heard and that this is such a more successful project. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U15	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U16	Good morning, very honourable Speaker of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, My group colleagues - Mr Augulis and Mr Valaiņš - have to a large extent already described the nature of this proposal and its importance, because we are talking about Article 1 of the law, which describes the purpose of the law and in the version that is in force at the moment... In practice, this article does not say anything. The current version reads: ‘This law regulates the principles and administration of ports’. But these principles can be different, and order - different. What Viktors Valainis offers (he has already presented this vision in very detail) is to ensure that those who work in the port share the principle of equality in the management of the port so that there is a general interest. And really, if we look at the big ports... The name of Ventspils was very much mentioned here, and Ventspils really is the most typical example of the fact that a very large part of the present... For the management of the free port, the former areas are located in the city, are part of the city, almost half of the city's territory. These principles apply equally to the other major ports - to Riga, to Liepaja - and I think some of them will eventually be reinstated in the smaller ports. What is this about? It is about the interest of the State and the functions of the State in these ports... and the functions of municipalities... We are talking about these big ones (A sound break.) ... There are only two owners, or two possible owners - either only the state, or the state and the municipality, but not the third player. If we do not have this principle - half - then one automatically comes out of the minority shareholder. Out of many other areas and from those discussions which have been at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission over a long period of time, we are seeing very well how the minority shareholder in Latvia is vulnerable, that in principle legislation on minority shareholder rights is gradually being improved, but it is far from perfect. What Mr. Plantis said about the forced transfer of municipal property, in essence... to a large extent, it also looks like the legislative texts that we are going to talk about later today. But I'll go on. If the function of the state is to represent the interests of the state and to take care, say, of the development of various economic sectors in the state's view, including, I think, also to take care of the development of transit business as a sector, to take care of the production sector (as, for example, in the ports of civilised and developed Europe, the production infrastructure has been developed at ports in order to take advantage of its advantages in this case), then the role of the municipality and the interest of the municipality in participating in such, say, a commercial company is quite different. The interest of the municipality could be... Thus, to represent its citizens, to represent the companies operating on its territory - if there is any interest in participating in this company, in this company of port management. And its interest is, first of all, related to environmental issues, because no matter how much has been done recently to solve port infrastructure and environmental issues in Latvia... in the infrastructure, by installing artificial noses and other things to detect odour leaks, however, they appear regularly. If we talk, let us say, about the handling of coal in Riga or Ventspils, however, people have to slap coal dust from their pallets, and those who can defend them, those who can try to prevent this foaming from being present, and force economic operators to comply, say, with environmental rules, are local governments, because the interests of the port administration are quite minimal. And, see... Although these examples show that there must be full equality in decision-making there, it is not for one party to impose its own decisions on the other. We will talk a great deal about these issues in future proposals, and I will also apply to talk about my proposals, but at the moment I am calling for support 2. - Victor Valain's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U17	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U18	Colleagues! After Mr Wucana, I just wanted to add that there is already a story here about development and development prospects in general. If we look at how it has been so far, then the development of ports is mainly based on investments from the Structural Funds... above all and these investments have some kind of guarantees, they have mostly been to some kind of credit, they have been to some kind of municipality... the guarantees provided. Local governments have this ability and interest in investing in the development of certain areas. This new capital company will, in my opinion, have a very limited capacity and opportunity. By mixing this parity, we will feel, above all, the willingness of the municipalities to engage in it. The municipalities are already... I think that since they are not involved in this administration, we can already see how little is actually - little! - and what results have been obtained. A new port authority is emerging in Ventspils. Founded, I think, also in Riga, the capital. It is difficult for me to imagine how this draft law will, by nature, be able to get inside the management of Riga City Council... Really interested, not only on paper or on Twitter, but essentially to become the main tractor of the port, because the country will not be certain for various reasons, but above all it should be a municipality - as in other major ports, if we look internationally. There are no such examples - where the municipality would be left in minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U19	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U20	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Here again, first of all, it should be noted that 13. In the best traditions of the Saeima, there is a debate, a debate about an important draft law, perhaps even about any draft law... no coalition Member considers it necessary to justify either his personal or his party's or, more generally, the coalition's position, why one or the other proposal from the coalition has been rejected, even though we also have a parliamentary secretary of the Ministry of Transport, who would be directly obliged to explain the policy and position of the Ministry of Transport on any particular proposal that is being debated. But with it we are 13. We're used to the family. For me, colleagues, a few points. Mr Valaiņš said that there should be a discussion here, a debate on development, but we will be seeing today that there will be no talk about the development of ports or transit, no matter how strange it is. In principle of development, or at least of how to prevent recession, this should be the main discussion today. But what is happening today? This is a talk about control. There's no development negotiations here, there's a control talks here. That's what the government says in essence (as I interpreted it) that, behold, until we get a port under our full control... and for the time being ports, port authorities, as you may know, honourable colleagues and also those who listen to us... Currently, port control is: half of the municipality concerned, half of the government's nominated representatives. So the government is saying to us now, today: "We will not talk about the development of ports until we resolve the issues of control, that is, until we get the port under our full control." It's pretty kind of like this here... The handwriting of the new conservative party. In the field of higher education too, we had not talked about this... on the development of higher education, but there is also control on the part of the government: let's introduce councils, let's put them on boards, so to speak, the right people, then there will be control, maybe - maybe! - then we'll talk about development. So this is about control today. The most interesting and perhaps the most sad thing in this whole story is that I would still understand this conversation about control if we tried to take our port from a foreign enemy who would have taken Latvia's main ports in some false way, or even nationalized ports from a foreign investor. But, no, here is the fight for control with the same Latvians, with municipalities, municipalities of the Republic of Latvia. It makes all of this, colleagues, very, very sad... once again, instead of talking about developing ports and the transit sector or preventing (in the current situation) recession, there is a fight for control. And that's what's happening between us. Among the citizens of the Republic of Latvia. Such an economic civil war. It's sad, fellow Members, to watch everything. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U21	So I closed the debate. For the Commission, please... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U22	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to draw attention to two points concerning this proposal. The first point is that this draft law, which we are currently looking at at at second reading, is just a draft law on port management reform. It is not about anything else; it is just changing governance with the aim of strengthening state power. The second thing I would like to add is that the specific article that Mr Valainis proposes to rewrite completely differently has been in force since 1 July 2000, it has entered into force more than 21 years ago and it has never been... amended during this period. And this bill does not change this article in the context of the reform either. In this case, the Member proposes amending the article, which has been working well for 21 years, and I think it should also continue to work. I would remind you that this proposal was rejected by the Commission and I therefore call for the vote to be 'no'.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U23	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Valaina's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 12, for - 50, for - 15. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U24	3. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal is in fact about the concept of a port by dividing Article 2 into two parts. It's purely editorial. The Commission is supported. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U25	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U26	Dear colleagues, I would also call on the rapporteur to engage in a debate if there is a wish to debate the proposal and, for this 21 year, that the norm has worked well. I would like to say that the law itself, until you introduced significant changes to it, excluding municipalities, also worked well enough, and even the results were purely suffering, because it ensured a steady rise in every port indicator - both in terms of cargo volumes, which therefore provided good indicators for the Latvian Railways... and now we see - a couple of thousands of people are periodically, from time to time, released from “Latvian Railways”. The port drop is deep, and it has begun... the whole of this recession began at the very moment when the New Conservative Party took over this area. It all started when the Minister of Transport... including the Prime Minister, began to question the role of transit in the country, and we see that in Estonia - even in Estonia! - these indicators have significantly improved. In Lithuania in general, without reservations, fantastic works on the basis of it... how our politicians understand the priorities. If, at the moment, a priority is strengthening state power in ports, what is the purpose of all this? We are changing order after change, creating, breaking down the entire sector and removing the main towing force, which is local authorities in every Member State of the European Union, where these ports are located... in some way running, the main towing force... Everywhere. We are now on an entirely opposite path. Indeed, the system that has been in place and has been working for 20 years, which has been based on the best port practice in Europe and will apply in real terms how to develop ports, which were also introduced in Latvia, - we are now just driving over it. That's why... as has already been mentioned in the previous proposal when it called for my proposal not to be supported, just because the current provision has been in place for 21 years... I have a question: why are we here today... to this draft law, and whether it should not be critical to look at the real reasons why port cargo volumes are falling, why Lithuania, Estonia can hold it on some level and even grow in separate segments, even though we are in the same geopolitical situation... Why do they succeed, we don't? Perhaps the answer can be found somewhere here, not too far away, simply by looking at the capacity of ministers or by the inability to lead the sector and approach as such. Perhaps its main mistake was that we excluded this driving force, which is local authorities. This proposal is supported by the Commission. Thank you for that. It is, as has already been mentioned, editorial, but it is, by nature, important, it divides... the version that had been submitted was that... Let's say, everything was put together - in one long sentence. I propose that it be divided into areas of responsibility for rules and basic concepts. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U27	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U28	There is a point to add. So you already felt that the debater was obviously confused. This is because this article has been in force since 1997 and has not been amended for more than 24 years. Nor is it intended to amend this Article in the context of the reform, so the only change that Mr Valaiņš is proposing here is to separate one paragraph as a separate... the actual establishment of two separate points in the Article. Since this is a purely editorial proposal, in fact, a very minor proposal that simply changes the wording of a 24-year-old article, there was no objection to support. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U29	Members support... I am sorry, the vote has been requested. Mr. Plant, you... Was it not a mistake? You request a vote on this provision of the law? Proposal No 3? Okay. Colleagues, a vote has been requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! - 73, against - 5, refrains - not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U30	Very good, thank you. Let's go. Next - 4. - Victor Valain's proposal. It is envisaged to exclude Article 1 of the draft law, which is... that the Ministry of Transport recommends the Cabinet of Ministers to perform... There are, therefore, issues relating to the definition of borders. Viktors Valainis apparently submitted that the Ministry of Transport should not grant such rights. In this regard, it seemed... Members rejected the proposal for obvious reasons. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U31	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 10, for - 47, for - 14. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U32	5. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. Even by rewriting the entire Article 3 on the definition of port borders. That salt lies in that it would be like... demonstrate which areas are necessary for the development of the port perspective, so the words ‘needed for the development of the port perspective’, which are discussed within the Commission... Such a new case was not supported by the Commission. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U33	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Uldis Augums.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U34	Dear colleagues, Obviously, the head of the commission has not understood the substance of the proposal either. This essence is to return to the fact that the owners or those operating in these port areas... Their proposal to change borders accordingly at any change of situation should also be taken into account, not as it is proposed that only the Cabinet of Ministers decides to change borders, only on a proposal from the Ministry of Transport. I call for our proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U35	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U36	I would remind you that the Commission decided not to support this proposal. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U37	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! For - 10, for - 49, for - 15, for - 15. The proposal is not supported. ( Pause) Colleagues, there are some technical difficulties. Let us start again with the next proposal. Please name the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U38	Yeah... The Saeima disappeared somewhere. 6. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. On real estate in a port, on the rewording of Article 4. The Commission was not supported. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U39	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 8, for - 48, for - 14. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U40	7. - Member Edgar Tatar's proposal. The Commission was not supported after a rather long discussion. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U41	Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U42	Colleagues! I applied for a debate on this - 7. - my colleague Edgar Tatar's proposal, because I am 8. - the proposal is in substance compatible with proposal 7. Both Mr Tatar and I put forward proposals 7 and 8... in essence we have spoken or offered that... So what is said in the first-reading version about state property and what is said about municipal property - it would be separable things and it should be talked about in two different places in the law. Proposal 8 is about state ownership of state-owned companies managing state-owned companies, just like Proposal 7. I would like to say right away that neither proposal 7 nor proposal 8 in essence alters nothing with regard to national property, nothing of which has already been supported at first reading... in the version of the first reading. However, there are important things that should be discussed here. So this is my eight. - the proposal should be assessed together (in the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission it was also assessed together) with the 15th proposal that I tabled, as well as the 7th proposal. - Mr Tatar's proposal was evaluated together with his proposal 14. So if proposals 7 and 8 are about state property, then proposals 14 and 15 - they are different, but they talk about how and if local authorities should transfer their property to the company managing the ports. Here I would like to say once again that there must be a certain degree of parity, because the Ministry of Transport, by submitting these draft laws to us for consideration, had already provided for exceptions in the case of public property, that not all public real estate is to be transferred to the port management company, that the exceptions could be to the extent of the assets that would probably be necessary for the operation of the public body, or (which is self-evident) all that is related to the railway infrastructure and that would be transferable to the railway manager, the national railway manager. Similarly, there should obviously be a principle, and so should (A sound interruption.) ... the municipality to assess all its assets and, if the municipality decides to transfer anything to the managing company of the port, to take into account what the municipality itself needs to ensure the interests of its citizens and the entrepreneurs operating in its territory, on the one hand, and, if it has decided to participate in the company at all, which would be the real estate that the municipality would be prepared to transfer. Because we have to take into account here the fact that there are a number of other laws, including the Law on Municipalities, the Law on State Property So... management and non-erritation and other laws and regulations binding on municipalities. Local authorities should always be concerned about their property, and it is not possible simply by law to impose an obligation on the municipality to hand over something to a private businessman. As for the first-reading version, the wording of the law, colleagues, to read it, it is not clear (from this version), is the fact that the municipality must transfer its real estate to the port management company - is it an obligation or a right? It is written in a pervasive way, so I think that, even for this reason, the part of this article should be clarified. I call on you to support your 8. - the proposal and, at the same time, the Member Tatar - 7. - the proposal, and later I will also argue on my 15th proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U43	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear colleagues, Proposal No 7 is similar, as my fellow Member Vucanas said, to proposal No 8. My name is 7. - the proposal can indeed be seen in the context of the 14th proposal, which sets out... Proposal 14 actually determines the role of the municipality, participation in its real estate... In a port capital company, Proposal No 7 clarifies, among other things, the role of the State and, as already at first reading, the Ministry of Transport proposed that certain exceptions be made to the public ownership, this proposal also actually proposes to maintain these exceptions. If specifically, first, the capital company does not transfer to the State the real estate that is to be used by the public... or for the exercise of its institutional functions. That seems absolutely logical. Secondly, no transfer of the state-owned land on which the land of the national public railway infrastructure is located shall be made to the holding of the capital companies. It also seems absolutely logical. Thus, the wording already supported at first reading does not, in fact, provide for the automatic transfer of state assets to the holding of a capital company, and the purpose and necessity of its use must be assessed accordingly. In my opinion, similar rights are also transferable to municipalities. If we look at the municipality too... the regulations, which Mr. Wuzana also mentioned - on the provisions of the law “On Local Government”, the law on waste of financial and property by public persons - there is a clear statement not only about rights, but also about obligations... and in this case decide whether and under what conditions it is possible to place its assets in the possession of the managing body of the port. The municipality has not only the right, but also the duty to control and monitor the legality and usefulness of the use of its property. In fact, the essence of several proposals in this law also provides for this, because if we impose such a voluntary order on the city, in this case Riga or Ventspils, to transfer its municipal property to a capital company which does not aim primarily to support the interests of local people, but to make profits... And the option... In any event, we cannot rule out the possibility that, also taking into account... Since the State has taken over control of these two ports, the privatisation of these ports could also be decided at one point - certainly at the lowest possible price. That's why... all the more to look at it in the context of these freeports... The Freeport of Riga, which is a very important part of the city of Riga, and the Freeport of Ventspils, which is the property of Ventspils municipality and the capital of Ventspils citizens, are even more important, historically formed completely into these municipalities... we are now transferring capital company ownership, where, amongst other things, the capital company can invest these funds outside its own port area, but not in the city. We can find ourselves in a situation where urban people are suffering. In this case, I am thinking more about Riga. This is also very clear in Ventspils. If we're sitting in the commission... I personally ask if there is a decision by the Riga City Council that they agree. There is no such decision. There are talks somewhere that Riga Vice-Chairman of the Party has participated with representatives of the Ministry of Transport, talked about this proportion and that yes, probably, the city will return its property to the capital company, but there is no decision. Just like... I also ask whether there is an opinion of the Competition Council on the draft law as a whole. There is no such opinion either. The European Commission's positive opinion... No, there's only first-hand negotiations. Therefore, colleagues, if we are talking about state property, state property, a very similar approach should also be taken with regard to municipal property - so that local people really would be good, not evil. At the moment, in my view, the transfer to the capital company of all these land, where the municipality has no reasonable influence over the use of the functions of this land, which... maybe not directly necessary for the promotion of a capital company, but by taking a free port... port territory size, then I really call for this proposal to be seen in the context of proposal 14 - so that we can look equally at both the state and the local authorities... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U45	I closed the debate. The debate is closed. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U46	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the wording of the first reading of the draft law provides for the transfer of real estate by local authorities by decision of the local authority concerned. We will further clarify this in editorial terms in proposal 13, which is the Commission's proposal. In this case... The 7th proposal removes the provision in general, so that there is no longer any regulation on how municipalities can take possession of real estate, even though such regulation is even in the current version of the law, namely Article 4, third paragraph. Consequently, the members of the Commission... I'm sure... decided to reject this proposal. I therefore call for the 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U47	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Member Tatar's proposal! Please, let's vote! For -9, for -49, for -15. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U48	Proposal No 8 is, as we found, identical, so that it may not be put to the vote. ( Pause) Hello!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U49	Here the Legal Office wants to check whether it is put to the vote or not. We expect a response from the Legal Office.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U50	Okay. Wait, wait. ( Pause)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U51	The legal bureau agrees that the proposal is identical, but it is possible to debate it. Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U52	Thank you. Colleagues! As far as proposal 7 is concerned, I also admit myself that it is, by its very nature, compatible... Proposals 7 and 8 are compatible. But since the next proposals will, however, also concern these... I would like to remind you here of the obligation or right of the municipality to transfer its real estate in the possession of the company managing the port, that when examining these and further proposals at the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, representatives of the Law Office also admitted that, as regards the transfer of the municipality's property into the management of the company managing the port, more precise regulation was needed than just the wording of the current article. I think... As I said before, I have offered such, more precise regulation now by dividing... Thus the transfer of state property to the municipality... for a commercial company and transfer of municipal property to a commercial company... between two proposals, between my proposals 8 and 15. The 8th proposal has indeed already been voted on in substance, but I would very much like to argue on the 15th proposal. As the rapporteur said, then there are commissions... Proposal No 13... But in my opinion, the rules of proposal 13 violate a series of requirements or principles that ensure good governance... principles that ensure good governance, so I will really argue, also when it comes to further proposals, on how I see that thing. But now, unfortunately, this proposal cannot be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U53	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add to the proposal of 8 following the debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U54	Nothing is to be added. No vote is taken.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U55	Let's keep going. Proposal No 9.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U56	9. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. It proposes another version, as the third paragraph of Section 4 of the Law, and therefore it also touches on the last part of the proposal, as the transfer of ownership of this municipality would now take place. It is written that you can transfer or rent. Following discussions within the Commission, this proposal was rejected. I would remind you that the revised version is 13. - the Commission's proposal. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U57	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Uldis Augums.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U58	Dear colleagues, As the head of the commission said, this is a change of legal form, on which the European Commission's assessment has actually also been given. However, no assessment of the admissibility of State aid for capital companies has been given. Therefore, in order to avoid this, there is also this proposal, since the State aid granted to the capital companies is made up at least of the following elements: the municipality's property transferred to the port authority at the time when the port authority was a municipal institution; the port authority's property acquired free of charge through the use of both the state and the municipality's assets; in addition, an investment made by the municipality if the municipality decides to participate in the capital company; the permanent right of the capital company to use the state and the municipality's property while obtaining all the income from its use. The capital company will be able to use the funds from the use of the municipal property outside the port and outside the territory of the municipality. The current Article 12 of the Ports Act provides that the financial resources of the port administration will be used only for the management and development of the port and its infrastructure, as well as for the fulfilment of the statutory functions, while the draft law provides for the exclusion of such provisions. The result will be that the funds of the capital companies obtained from the use of the municipal property will be used outside the territory of the municipality and not linked to the interests of the local authorities. This, of course, also violates Article 77 of the Law on Municipalities. In this context, we also propose in this proposal that we avoid... by changing the legal form, avoid that there will be accusations by the European Commission about State aid... A representative of the Ministry of Finance said to the Commission: “Then we will look... to the third reading... It is possible that we will then be able to stop this law." I think it's absurd. If we do something, we do it neatly, not... first of all, when we receive an answer from the European Commission, it seems to us that everything will be fine. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U59	Thank you. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so? Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U60	I would remind you that the Commission has clarified the third paragraph of Article 4 in proposal 13. In this context, following extensive discussions, this proposal has been rejected by the Commission, 9th. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U61	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! For - 10, for - 46, for - 16, for - 16. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U62	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. That is also the same - the third paragraph of Article 4. This time the offer is that the municipality will be able to rent its real estate for a period not exceeding 45 years, with the exception of... in the case of investments of EUR 50 million and so on. So it's perfect... Thus, there has been the creation of legal norms, completely new ideas have appeared. The proposal was rejected during the discussion within the Commission. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U63	Members have not applied to debate or object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U64	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is in principle supported and included in 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U65	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U66	12. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. In essence, its idea coincides with the recommendation of the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U67	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U68	13. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is clarified that the land of the municipality was transferred to the holding by a decision of the relevant municipality council. This is also on the recommendation of the Legal Office. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U69	Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U70	Yeah. Well, this is a thing I've been talking about before, but... Listen, read the same wording: the municipality land is transferred into possession by decision of the relevant city council or parish council. When I read this, I realize that it is an imperative rule, that is, one from which it is impossible (A sound defect.) ... Consequently, if any part of the land previously owned by the managing body of the port is in agreement with the municipality, then it must be transferred to the commercial company of the managing body of the port. I read it this way. And in that form... if it can be interpreted as an imperative rule, then I cannot support it. If the municipality were to have the right to transfer it, that would be understandable. And all of what my colleagues talked about earlier and what I was talking about earlier is that the municipality, like the state, should have the right to decide what to put into business and what not to give... I will therefore abstain from voting on this proposal. Because the fact that the city council or the county council is changed... No, rather, it's just about cities. City Council... by decision of the City Council or the parish Council... Then all of this is understandable, but so I have already mentioned that principle, in my opinion, is not the right one. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U71	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U72	Well, I have to clarify that it was precisely this issue that was eliminated, because the parish councils no longer exist, we found in its commission, therefore, the municipality's land... shall be held by decision of the relevant municipal council. That is the Commission's proposal. The Commission itself developed and supported. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U73	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - the committee's proposal! Please, let's vote! On - 66, against - no, abstain - 2. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U74	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Member Tatar, which provides for the creation of a new paragraph in Article 4. Basically, for the same thing that Members have just voted on. Since Members here too, at the Saeima sitting, have supported this adjustment to the third paragraph of Article 4, which states that the land of the municipality is to be placed in possession by decision of the relevant municipal council, it is not necessary to form a new paragraph, a new paragraph, which also states that ‘may be placed in possession’. The Commission did not support this. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U75	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U76	Colleagues! Proposal 14 can also be supported if proposal 13 is supported. And, by the way, the 7th proposal was not supported... The purpose and nature of this proposal is to ensure, in fact, that we look at all the regulatory framework in force - on which the municipality has the right to decide and on which the municipality has no right to decide. Moreover, even in cases where a municipality may transfer or lease its real estate to a capital company and decide on its use in so far as it is in the interest of the city, so in the interest of the municipality, and not to decide on cases which have already been transferred, of course, and which are necessary to support the port’s activities or the success of the capital company. In particular, if the municipality has enough land assets in the specific area of the current port, the municipality may decide at least on the property required by the municipality for the benefit of the residents of the municipality. And to separate: what is necessary for the operation of the capital company (whether they are terminals or some infrastructure around terminals, properties for the port to function and develop successfully), to transfer to the capital company. In other words, with proposal 14, we intend to ensure that the municipality really has the right to comply with all applicable rules on the use of its property. The proposal really... seemingly... self-evidently provides that municipalities may transfer their real estate to the relevant port authority or lease it to the relevant port authority... For the businessman... by decision of the municipality concerned. We also had a long and wide-ranging discussion in the Commission. And, by the way, I did not get a clear answer: what happens if the municipality decides otherwise? If the power changes in Riga and the municipality decides otherwise? I understand that, no, we're not ready for it right now... someone has just tried to trade, market directly or indirectly their political influence, represent the municipality without the decisions of the council... that we don't agree with this... that we don't see... For example, it could be more beneficial than bad for the people of Riga. Therefore, colleagues, at least in the section relating to municipalities... I really call for support for this proposal, 14 - that the municipality has the right to comply with its legislation... within the limits of its rights and obligations not contrary to the new law, to decide on the use of its property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U77	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U78	Dear colleagues, This is a very important proposal tabled by my colleague, Mr Tatar. I also call for this proposal to be supported. And basically here... It has to be understood: this is in a way related to the previous one, which Mr Wuzan spoke about. Whether this is the case for municipalities as a matter of coercion or whether this is also a voluntary opportunity to take part in such a capital company... and what the municipality does with its assets. You understand - local governments have made a choice when creating ports. Having made a choice of creating new jobs, mortgaged his properties, invested his funds. They could equally well be invested in the construction of new kindergartens and the construction of infrastructure... other important issues, but the municipalities have done so on this - the port - issue. Now, when municipalities are excluded from port management by nature, it would be quite natural to give municipalities more opportunities to take care of the development of their territory, because here's the story that... If the municipality sees that the port administration is the same as so far... It is absolutely impossible to cope with its obligations and to create, for example, an increase in cargo volumes, then the municipality can make its own choice and develop, for example, industrial production, develop degraded areas, develop production, which could very probably not even be linked to a port, or other development areas that do not have a direct connection with the port, thus enabling the ports themselves... port authority... Well, these new capital companies really do deal with the things they've planned now... take over the management of the State and then deal with all these port deepening cases, with the maintenance of berths, with the services of tug boats... organise and operate. Let it work! If the State is so keen that the State will take full responsibility for this management, but to leave room for the municipality, if the municipality sees that, let us assume what territory can be successfully developed as a production area, that a degraded area can be developed. To give the municipality the right, opportunities to use this territory for its own needs. You can't all say now: you "forced voluntarily" all this in the port, there will be virtually no saying here, and even if we fail, you will only be able to express yourself and in some way... You will be a minority shareholder with very limited opportunities to say something. This proposal, by its very nature, provides for an opportunity for the municipality to separate itself immediately, to say: re, this territory is needed for urban development, here we will build... Let's see if it's going to be a business... some development area or cultural area, or any object related to tourism. The municipality must be given the opportunity to develop its territory at its own discretion - as it would be best for its citizens. If there is any area needed for the port, this can be discussed, but it must be mutually respectful dialogue. At the moment, the legislative leaders have completely excluded such a, respectful, dialogue from these negotiations, using their positions of power. Force Positions... Well, you can always use them, just - does it always bring the required result? This proposal really... This is about the property of the municipality; this is not about the property belonging to the Ministry of Transport or any other Ministry or the property belonging to the name of the state; this is about the property of the municipality, how... As the municipality sees... and that the municipality has more loose hands with regard to the management of its property. That is why, in my opinion, the proposal is good, it is in the interests of the people; it would not hinder these new plans for developing ports or simply taking port control fully into its own hands, but it would also give local authorities some opportunity to decide on the areas they may already have organised, where there is some vision... This is also in the interests of citizens. Colleagues! I call for support for this proposal, 14 and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U79	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U80	On behalf of the Commission, I call for this proposal to be rejected, to be voted against.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U81	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - Member Tatar's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 10, for - 47, for - 17. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U82	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr. Wuzan's proposal. It also provides for the creation of a new section 3.1 in Article 4. It is also about the fact that municipalities place these properties in possession of the port authority, that they could also rent them and that every year the port authority should carry out an inventory of the transferred property... This is despite the fact that municipalities are also potential members of this capital company... and also representatives of the Board and the Board. Well, here is everything possible in this proposal! The Commission therefore rejected this proposal after the debate. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U83	Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U84	Thank you, Mr Feldman, for the words “all possible”. I've really tried to put an instrument in. This is due, on the one hand, to the fact that the municipalities are not completely free to act and that they have to hand over their real estate to someone else, but, on the other hand, the municipalities have to be a careful owner - responsible for all their property, including those who have been placed in possession of someone else. Also a private person by transferring... Let's say that when you rent your apartment or put your car into use, it cares about this property, and in the same way, it is the property of the municipality that has been placed in possession of someone else for their reasons or for other reasons. And that is why these requirements on regular inventory reports and on other matters are only self-evident. That is why I have also tabled this proposal. Moreover, if the municipality finds that any of the real estate transferred to the company is not used for the specified purpose, it should also be possible to recover these properties within a reasonable period of time and to take possession of them again. These are all things that have already been agreed in Latvian legislation, so I think this regulation I offer is only logical. Because, as I said before, every owner who entrusts his or her property to someone else would like to receive regular information about what is happening to this property, so also the owner who is a minority shareholder. Similarly, it is only self-evident that the owner has the right to recover his property from each third party, and the commercial company in this case is a third party. Such rights of the owner shall also be expressly provided for in Article 927 of the Civil Law. The representatives of the Legal Bureau also admitted to the meeting of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy to discuss these norms. Therefore, I recommend not to risk such unfinished norms by leaving them in law and waiting for them to be brought into legal proceedings... or - when the Ministry of Transport will propose appropriate regulation to the existing legal provisions. I call for support already now for the right of the municipality as owner to control the use of its property. I call on you to support this 15th proposal that I have tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U85	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U86	President of the Saeima. This proposal. I see that this is linked to a proposal that has not been supported in the past, proposal 8, but I would like to emphasise that this proposal is still important - just like Mr Vucana has already said. From now on, the Ministry of Transport itself has included in this draft law norms which, in essence, provide for their ability to choose the properties that... Consequently, the State does not invest all assets in turn in this new capital company, but makes a certain selection. In the case of municipalities, there is no real selection here; there is the principle of ‘forced volunteering’, that the municipality invests everything there, invests in a new capital company, without distinguishing between whether they need it or not, and does not go into the fact that there is... Almost half of Ventspils is in a situation that I think requires some assessment. And just as logical is this requirement, that the municipality, seeing that... if its possessions are being mistreated, it may claim the property back. It would, in my opinion, be quite normal if there were such a procedure in the law, in this way... In some way controlling... What the rapporteur said on behalf of the Commission... that the municipalities are already there - in the management of... Once again and again, it should be stressed that municipalities are in a minority of its management and that municipalities are not able to influence these processes; they may be in a situation where simply... I do not rule out that there will be a situation in which the state, acting in an indecent way, degrades both the value of the municipality's property and also the image of the municipality. In this case, these are large parts of the territory, which are transferred without very stringent control instruments, without control possibilities. The main purpose of this proposal is to make it possible for the municipality, by investing its assets, to get this property under control and to be accountable and to have some tools to deal with if it is not used correctly. Colleagues! I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U87	Name to Member Uldis Augums.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U88	Dear colleagues, As I said at the outset, there must be the principle of equality. Mr Feldman mentioned at the outset that investments... The ratio of municipal contribution to participation in a capital company is 50 to 50 (he mentioned it in English terms), but in fact, when we look at the draft law, we see that its ratio is completely different: 40 to 60; the commission has decided to do so. Consequently, it is only logical that these proposals - the previous one and this proposal from Mr Vacana - are made. It is about the fact that the minority shareholder has rights, including rights, which are already laid down in the Civil Law. As Mr Vucana said, the Legal Bureau also stressed at the meeting of the Commission that regulation was necessary so that every owner participating in a capital company sees, knows and is convinced that his property is used for the purposes for which the capital company is intended and for which it is built. Colleagues, everything is built in such a way that there is no State aid... violation to be this equivalent, equal "game" and that we do not end up in a situation where it is considered that the municipality's property is nothing that the municipality's property can be nationalised. Therefore, my fellow Members, I am calling for this proposal from Mr Vacana to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U89	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so? Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U90	On behalf of the Commission, I must draw Members' attention... The listener may sound from the side that it is already the case that it is necessary to decide once again on the property in the port area. That is not the case. I would remind you that this is just a governance reform. So there are already property in the port; all the liabilities are taken over by this new capital company, no... If new properties are to be invested, of course, they can be invested by the City Council with its own decision. So I draw attention to this: this is just a change in governance reform. A port is not created as an economic unit completely new; no completely new territory is created. We have all heard from the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, we have heard explanations, so the Commission has decided not to support this proposal. On behalf of the Commission, I call for the 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U91	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 15. - Member Wuzan's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 10, for - 45, for - 16. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U92	16. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Again - on the new paragraph 3.1 of Section 4, where... In this case, the focus is precisely on the inventory of property - with the idea that the municipality could demand... the assets already invested, already in possession, to be recovered, thus essentially embarrassing the port’s work. In this case, the Members of the Commission observed consistency - this proposal, 16, was also rejected. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U93	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U94	Colleagues! That the municipality could sabotage the work of the ports - it would now be a very hasty conclusion of the head of the commission. In essence, this proposal does not differ significantly from proposal 15; there are some improvements there. And maybe this proposal is even focused... with such a further view in the future. And I'll explain why. First of all, once again and again... and, in this respect, the chairman of the commission, in my opinion, deceives the Saeima... That is, if we look at whether a new structure is being created - a new one is being created! And we assume, as part of this new structure, that all that is currently in the Freeport Authority... all these properties are created there as from blue air. There is no assessment of how this property has come into being there, which has invested in the development of this property; this has been the main thing that has taken care of it all these years and how resources have been invested there. Of course, the Freeport Authority as such... But if we look at how industrial territories have developed - this is where Ventspils is specifically - its picture is completely different: it is quite clear that Ventspils Municipality Ventspils residents' money... have made very substantial investments... guarantees and so on... the development of this property, which is not comparable to the investments made by the state budget. On the part of the national budget, I believe that there are only investments of the Structural Funds, which could not be called public budget investments in any way; it is the money of the European Union's structural funds, and there... there are entirely other merits why these investments are being invested in here. However, there are other reasons for this. But if we look at this proposal - yes, of course, in a way, it means that the municipality can demand if the municipality, for example, has concerns that industrial areas could be developed in the future in the same way as the current "Latvian Railway" or any other company of the Ministry of Transport. I would also be concerned to transfer any property to such a manager at the moment. And if we are talking about property and territorial areas where several thousand workers work and work, then I think that these concerns are quite justified, trying to protect the interests of businesses in their entirety, in order, however, to gain some transparency in the future as well. But this proposal, however, is in the future - a really broad view. And it also predicts relations between economic operators in the future. It is essential to understand why now, when this law is adopted... if this draft law is adopted at third reading... why this proposal is important. In particular, this proposal also provides an economic operator... guarantees that after the next Saeima and this law will be changed again... I think this law will be amended quite quickly; early or late, the Saeima, the Members of the Saeima, will understand this error - it has been in the past - and will amend it. It will understand that the involvement of the municipality must be greater. And this form of administration can - theoretically - change. In order also to ensure the long-term transparency of the contracts they have concluded for the same operators, it also provides that these contracts are automatically extended, regardless of what activities the State is doing on its own, what changes to our governance... This year, next year or next year... these contracts continue to operate. That is the proposal... a fundamental improvement, and that is the way forward. From today's point of view - if we adopt such a law - I am absolutely convinced that this form of governance will have to be changed early or late. And the role of the municipality will have to be strengthened, like it or not. Now, for political reasons, it is significantly reduced, but in the future, I think, too, the international experience will come to us that, however, the municipalities are much more successful in managing their territory, because they are interested in managing this territory much more than the country on its own. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U95	Thank you. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U96	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the proposal to be rejected, to vote against.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U97	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - Member Valaina's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 10, for - 48, for - 16. The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, Time to break. Before the break, it's a message. Dear colleagues, Today's birthday is celebrated by our colleague Evija Papule and we welcome him. Good luck! Dear colleagues, There's also a record of Members. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U98	Dear colleagues, We will continue to examine the agenda for the meeting on 4 November this year. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Ports Act’. Member of the Commission responsible: Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U99	We will start working with the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Ports Act’. We have reached proposal 17. It is a motion from Member Tatar. The decisive point here is that at the end of the proposal it is said that ‘the granting by the port authority of the building rights to land owned by a municipality in a free port area must initially be subject to a decision of the local authority’. Now this is not in line with the spirit of the reform. Members therefore rejected this proposal in the Commission. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U100	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U101	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Before the previous sittings, when we started looking at this particular draft law... zero as finally the draft law before a break, the chairman of the commission mentioned, among other things, that this draft law does not, in fact, provide for any change of administration, but for... provides for a change of administration only, but does not provide for a change in the nature of port activities. I would like to make it clear, because we see clearly and clearly in this draft law that, on the contrary, the draft law, by changing this form of administration, changes virtually all the activities of the port in substance. The opposite is offered. We see that changes are being proposed in the legal form of port authorities, which, by nature, also means very significant changes in the entire port management activity, including in the form of... that port authorities will be entitled to dispose of their virtually all publicly available assets and resources. We know that currently the Freeport of Riga and Freeport of Ventspils are in fact acting as public derived persons, who have to work according to both the types of management defined in the Law on State Administration Structure, as well as compliance with the Law on Administrative Procedure, as well as the Law on Information Transparency. among other things, available information for the media - everything about and around the port. In principle, the current form of operation requires the port to be fully operational, but at a time when we change this form to a capital company, it is subject only to the Commercial Law and much information is hidden. It's commercial information... where, among other things, the municipalities, the minority shareholder, in order to participate, have to invest the assets of the residents of their municipalities, including additional assets for those who have already been invested. Such investments are not only in Riga, but also in Ventspils, and they are significant. These investments amount to millions. What does this mean at this point? If the form of port management is changed, then we need to understand that this is no longer a municipality or a state, but in this case this is actually a private body... with the aim, which, among other things, we were very well able to hear in the committee sitting, which would be a very desirable next step - with stock exchange quotation, i.e. with privatisation. We are now dealing with the fact that, in fact, we change the whole management model and the whole principle of the port, at a time when the state has taken over the actual two ports - the port of Riga and the port of Ventspils - where there are huge, huge drop in turnover... Thus, the drop in the value of the ports is huge, as well as the assets invested by the residents of municipalities, the common property managed so far by the municipality, but which has been invested in the ports, is very, very large and measurable in many millions - it is transferred to a capital company, where the municipality no longer has a say for its assets. No saying. Then the question is different: who actually destroys what is illegal - is it illegal that the municipality demands the supervision and harmonisation of its assets, or is it illegal that we actually transfer the municipal assets, the municipal resources and also the total assets of the population which are actually owned by all the residents of the municipality, one capital company which, if it emerges in the future, can invest strongly outside this particular city? They may invest anywhere in accordance with the Commercial Law. Colleagues, then, what is the head of the commission to the previous question when he pointed out to Member Valainius... What is the real purpose of this draft law? What I see and understand very well is that the real purpose of this bill is, at a time when ports are capitally weakened, when their value has fallen enormously, to acquire as a capital company, and then with their known, perhaps foreign "potential" investors (perhaps, they are quite the opposite.) ... Any trans-national oligarchi) would allow this port to be privatised for a value that is well below the market value at that time. That is the real purpose of this draft law. What the head of the commission pointed out on behalf of the commission... It doesn't really fit. Accordingly, the last sentence of the 17th proposal also calls at least for this problem to be addressed... that the municipality has the right to some sort of harmonisation. That is why I am asking for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U102	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U103	President of the Saeima. Colleagues! We come back to this bill. I will also focus on the very end of this proposal. This is the main essence of the fact that the managing body of the port, and therefore the capital company, must, when granting building rights to the existing land in this free port area, take a decision by the decision of the local authority concerned, which is, in my opinion, a logical requirement if we accept that it is very large... At least in the case of Ventspils, it is almost 40 per cent of the territory of the municipality... And these... Freeport right now... and after all this structure and this structure, which is currently being created, it comes to the end of possibilities for the municipality to separate something and to keep something... the interests of the public... There will be no real need. All this will automatically fall into the new capital company. Then - by 40 per cent of the municipality's land... Essentially, the municipality itself will have the right to a minority: they will be able to object to something that happens there or, let us accept, is being developed that is not in the interests of the people, but that their reservations will have no far-reaching consequences, namely, they will be like a minority member. On the other hand, a member of the majority can make decisions without this local understanding, which will not be fully in line with the interests of the citizens, and this balance should be sought somewhere. In the case of supporting such a proposal, however, in some way it would be maintained that there is also some municipal property in the entire capital company, because at the establishment of the capital company... If we now have a freeport administration, where the property is separated in some way - there is municipal property, there is state property, ministerial property or property of various ministries - then at the time when they will be merged, this new capital company will no longer have Ventspils property or Riga City Council, there will be property of the capital company and this capital company will fully control what is going on there. The municipality will only be with such minority options, I would say, rather than a commentator from the edge, who will be able to say at some point that they agree with or disagree with something, but that will not be of great importance. Consequently, the support of such a proposal, which would, however, put at the very heart of the law an obligation on this new capital company for the land which is the original property of the municipality... original owner... about some kind of construction, some plans to demand the vision of the municipality, it would be absolutely right, in my opinion. At least this would in some way preserve the municipality’s ability to decide and influence the processes of the new capital company. In my opinion, this is a welcome proposal. I call on my fellow Members to support proposal 17.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U104	Thank you. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so? Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U105	On behalf of the Commission, it is possible to point out that when we get to Article 4 of the draft law, i.e. amendments to Article 7 of the law, Members have voted there at first reading on Section 7.1, where it is clear and clear that neither the Freeport of Riga nor the Freeport of Ventspils... the shares (shares) in this administration, which will now be capital companies, are not transferable or pledged. In this respect, it is my duty to emphasise and call for this not to mislead society. With regard to this proposal. In view of the fact that the municipality might be in a situation where the port work could be restricted by preventing economic activity on the property held by the port, the members of the Commission rejected the proposal. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U106	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - Member Tatar's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 10, for - 49, for - 14. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U107	Okay. Let's go to proposal 18. 18. - Mr. Wuzan's proposal. In this proposal too, the following sentence is inconspicuously included in the middle: “The granting of building rights to municipal property requires the permission of the municipality.” So exactly the same principle that is included... why the previous proposal was rejected. The Commission was not supported. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U108	Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U109	Thank you. In my view, the biggest problem of this draft law is that it has now been looked at and is based on the principle... based on confrontation, not on local and national cooperation. To prevent such confrontations, the law must clearly and clearly record what can and cannot be done... not to confonate. Thank you, Mr Feldman, for mentioning this one sentence, which is in my proposal and which coincides with what was also in Edgar Tatar's proposal, but you did not mention the other. The second sentence is as follows: ‘Land belonging to a municipality’, I stress: ‘Leases, leases for more than six months within one year, or burdens require the consent of the municipality’. In my view, such an addition is very important for us to escape from this confrontation because, for example, the municipality may have planned to implement one of its projects on the territory of the port of its land (both in Riga and Ventspils there are quite a lot of such projects), but in the course of the implementation of the project it may appear that the port authority, as a businessman, has granted the right to build the municipality's land for a completely different purpose. This situation is not acceptable, as my colleagues have already spoken about it in the past. Therefore, in order to avoid such opportunities and such confrontations, I nevertheless call for support for this, 18. - a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U110	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U111	In my opinion, the head of the commission does not refer to the word sabotage. It's hard for me to remember just one case ( maybe someone can remind you)... at least one case where there would have been a problem with local and national cooperation, especially with regard to building plans, where there would have been some problem in this process... What has been up to now. What Mr Wuzana is proposing - Mr Wuzana proposes that the existing arrangements be substantially strengthened, which in practice has not caused any kind of problems. The managing body of the port has always respected the interests of the municipality, whether it is Riga or Ventspils or someone else, there is always this cooperation and joint planning, a common understanding of how to develop both the port and the city area, respecting both the business interests of the port and the development interests of the city, so that it can be... I don't care about any question. It can be related not only to the development of entrepreneurship, they can also be cultural, educational and other issues that the municipality sees and how. In this case... This proposal offers you not to weigh the weights at this point on the very side of the capital company, as the legislative leaders do. This power is by nature... We can already see that the country has, by its very nature, taken full control of these ports. I have not heard any differences between the municipality and the public administration regarding construction issues. The fact that one or the other municipality is asking for more reports on what is happening to its property is another thing, it is already a matter of governance, but with regard to construction plans, it will not be good for the municipality or the capital company. Colleagues, I don't tell you what it means to get into a conflict in construction if either side (and in this case both sides) were like... the parties to the public person. It would be pretty silly if some development projects stopped suddenly, because one party believes that the purpose of this land use could be someone else's... and that this dialogue would have been lacking at some point. In this case, I am convinced that by trying to weigh these weights into favour of the management of the capital company (the capital company is therefore on the national side), we are directly contributing to the potential of the conflict. And if such a conflict comes in, then, believe me, the municipality has a whole range of other instruments, in which way it can affect further construction... an event or no event. It would be better if, however, these drivers of ideas were forced to harmonise, speak and understand these issues according to the local government's own development scenario, because there are also people who have to take into account their wishes, who also have some vision. It must be respected. And ports are not located in remote areas. There are various reasons, and yet they are... One is in our capital, the other in Ventspils, which is also in the city centre, takes 40 percent of the city's territory. Still, it is worth listening and understanding. In my opinion, the very basis of this draft law is strongly exaggerated by the state's desire to dominate governance. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U112	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U113	Colleagues! In addition to the above, in relation to proposal 18, it is essential to maintain such a certain parity (at least on the use of property) for the municipality with a capital company, in this case the municipality with the state, at least for as long as there is no new decision on privatisation, because we remember the time until 2019 when ports as public derived persons were managed in half, directly on the side, no one had a majority, neither the municipality nor the state. This cooperation was successful. We also see this very well in port figures. Among other things, we see that, for example, in the port of Liepaja, which is not subject to significant changes, where there has been no direct intervention by the government, where a normal model has been maintained, as it was in the case of Liepaja, these cargo dropes are not at all. We can see that this port continues to develop successfully. This is the salt. Whatever power it may have been, if it may be expressed, in the capital of Riga... Whether they were countrymen or then SATISFY... and whatever authority might have been in the government, no matter who has led the relevant ministries... because four ministries delegated board members, representatives, government representatives... This cooperation was completely different from what we saw in the Saeima; it was constructive and development-oriented. We have seen this increase, we have seen these profitability indicators. We saw municipalities... as ports, ports are able to cooperate with the city, organise a wide range of events, including those needed by urban people. The city was interested in doing everything for the port to develop. On all multinational visits or really... saying... also in the reception of some delegates, both city management, port management and state representatives went... hand in hand to have competitiveness in the port so that our region is competitive. At the moment, doing everything possible to ensure that the municipality not only loses substantially and the residents of the municipality suffer losses, but also does not benefit in the future... We are doing our utmost to bring competitiveness to a very strong fall. Will the city, for example, be interested in the port of Riga... noises? No, no! On what basis should they be interested? It is a completely different legal form, a capital company aimed at making profits. They don't have to care so much about smacks, dust, or noise. All right, we have had a big investment in the port of Riga, so that these smell-creating, dust-creating terminals... move to more environmentally friendly terminals, but problems and noises will always be present if there is movement in the future and if there is life in these ports. And here is a very important really constructive cooperation between the municipality and the freeport, no matter what winds blow and any coalition flags in our capital city council. We do not know what will happen in four years' time, but we see what is now. And at the moment, that's not a good situation. It is therefore very logical, at least in this point, to maintain this parity - that the municipality has some certain powers - and to find a solution on the property belonging to the municipality, in constructive cooperation with a possible capital company. Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U114	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U115	On behalf of the Commission, I can say that we have seen the draft law in several sittings, many days. All the questions were discussed. It has also become absolutely clear to the members of the Commission that the FAO Group is opposed to the reform of port management. In this sense, they are also consistent at this parliamentary sitting. It should be recalled that the municipalities have a sufficiently large proportion of the share capital of the capital company and therefore there is no reason to claim that the municipality is not in any way... someone does not want to involve the municipality in the management of the port. This applies to both Ventspils and Riga. Here I have to mention that Liepaja was called. In Liepaja... is Liepaja SEZ instead of the Freeport, there is a different management model. And apparently there has not been such a great reliance in Liepaja on, let us say, cargoes on certain types of cargo, and therefore the reduction of cargo influx from Russia has not reduced port turnover. But that's another story. I call for this proposal to be rejected - as the Commission has done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U116	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. - Member Wuzan's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 10, for - 48, for - 14. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U117	19. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. It's about... The end of the proposal is also a nuance... that the right to land located in a free port is granted in accordance with the provisions of the Civil Law. Following the discussions that took place within the Commission, the Commission rejected this proposal. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U118	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Uldis Augums.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U119	Yes, dear colleagues, we continue this sitting and discussion... The 19th proposal is similar to the 17th and 18th proposals, but since the head of the commission has not yet understood what state and municipal relations and land ownership rights mean, and who can decide on it, and who gives it to construction, then this proposal... without the municipalities mentioned above... provide for their right to... landowners... whether the owner is a State, a municipality or a private person... implement their projects on their own property. This will contribute to the achievement of the objective set out in Article 3 of the Ports Act, which is to develop the port's prospects. The port area is large and takes important parts of urban areas - be it Liepaja or Riga or Ventspils. Thus, to realise on their property such their projects - it cannot be taken away by law. The managing body of the port, as a businessman, has no obligation nor interest in developing the territory of the municipality. The purpose of the operator's business is to make profits. It is not in any way related to the management of the territory of the municipality or the protection of the interests of the population. The Ministry of Transport provides for more than 40 percent of... for example, from the territory of Ventspils... withdraw the municipality and transfer it to the operator so that it can realise its profit objectives in this municipality’s ownership. Moreover, it is not yet known whether and to what extent these profits will be returned to the municipalities. However, it is already clear that the municipality will return the smaller part of this profit. The 19th proposal proposes to prevent this illegal situation and to preserve not only the municipality but also other landowners in the port area, as these are also... implement their projects on the land they own. I call on my fellow Members to support this 19th proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U120	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U121	Colleagues! I would also like to call on the chairman of the commission not to be ashamed of and to apply to the debate. It looks like you really have a lot to say, especially in your own name, so apply. We can also debate this format, it would be quite right. This proposal. As Mr. Plantis has already said, here is the idea that we also need to look a little bit further. There are territories, and there are also private... landowners, as well as their rights, should respect the new port management model. Colleagues! I would like to address its concern that the fisheries sector is opposed to changes in port management. We are in favour, and we have also presented our vision of how we see ports should be managed, and we are now actively trying to defend them. In essence, our views are based on the experience gained in managing ports in Europe, in the world. The best European port management model is based on the following examples: And such a port management model has also been in Latvia. Unfortunately, this has been amended, and all this is now going in a difficult way to understand. In my opinion, the head of the commission, if he has just mentioned these examples on behalf of the Commission and on behalf of the coalition about how Liepaja SEZ is managed and on which the port of Riga and Ventspils is based... In my opinion, in that case, he shows that neither the Commission nor the coalition has an absolute understanding of how our transit corridor, Latvia, is operating, how cargo is developing and what port development strategies are already implemented... not only two, three, five, but ten years and more, and what the results of these ports have achieved. We are actively trying to point out that this "offer" will affect both port operators and port cooperation with local authorities; that, by its very nature, there should not be any such issue; rather, we should think about how to promote the development of these local authorities, including in the development of ports. With these proposals, we are trying to draw attention to the fact that local government ownership, and hence private ownership, is very little protected in this new model. It is assumed that there are highly gifted people in the capital who will be able to organise and manage port activities very accurately and clearly... For example, in the same Ventspils. We can see how Ventspils is going - how it is with cargo turnover, what is the "success" of port management at this time, when the state has taken full control of the organisation of the port work. I think everyone will agree that the results are not the most shiny... and, in general, our transit corridor is not the most shiny, with such a background that our top political leadership believes that transit business is not a priority and that transit is in general - it is a history... and that we're unique in some way, that we're... that we still dream about something like that. We clearly see that Lithuania and Estonia think a little differently; they are using this short-sightedness of ours right now. I think that this is the place to talk about proposals that defend the interests of the local population and, therefore, those of the entrepreneurs who operate there. And this proposal is precisely about defending. In order for a businessman and a municipality to see that false things are being created and organized, there is some possibility to influence it. By the way, these projects developed by the municipality are, indeed, something that we can all rejoice about. These are huge areas that have been developed, where multinational companies operate, which the municipalities have attracted not only from Europe but also from countries outside Europe. On the other hand, the state... with such experience... I would find it hard to find examples that are now... Since he took over power in ports... could show what we've done. Unfortunately, there are no such examples. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U122	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U123	Yes, in addition to what colleagues have said, if we look at the 19th proposal, but at the same time reflect what the Commission's head says on behalf of the Commission that the Greens/farmers' Union is consistently 'no'... What I, by the way, asked during the commission meeting also initially to show you that really everyone really understands what the business plan is when we set up a capital company... What are these business steps then. We were even taught at school: if we start doing something, first we... Even at primary school, we ask children to draw up a primitive business plan: what you will produce, who will buy it, how much you will sell, what you need, what will your income, what will be your potential profit or loss, and how much money you will need to invest today, how much money you will need to invest tomorrow and what future results it will bring. We ask for a really business plan, strategy, calculations, justification that this capital company as a whole... New... The conceptual change in port management will be beneficial. What good will it bring to cities, what will it bring to the whole country, to the people of our country? And then the answer was: there is no such business plan. There was complete silence from the Ministry of Transport, from our current colleagues; the voices of the parliamentary secretaries were not heard at all. I remember at a time when... In mid-June 2018, when, by the way, I personally met with King Williams Alexander of the Netherlands and representatives of the port of Rotterdam, we signed an agreement between the Freeport of Riga and the port of Rotterdam on future cooperation, then... In many cases, we are looking at the best examples of the world. And also at the meeting of the Commission, the coalition mentioned how good it is that there are models such as Rotterdam, for example, but did not mention that Rotterdam, which is really one of the world's top ports in our region, absolutely... one of the ports of the top, the control of the municipality is dominant: there 70 per cent is participation of the municipality and 30 per cent is participation of the state. And the state started to participate when it was necessary to develop this port very, very importantly with huge investments. And then... This cooperation is really happening, and in fact they built at sea, created new areas for the port to develop, because the port had already had its potential to develop against such... the so-called glass ceiling. If we already mention examples of the world, then let's really mention them all to the end. This cooperation can and must be, but not in the form that the coalition is putting before us at the moment. We won't get... If we want to pay our country's external debts in the future, we need to develop the economy, develop prosperity and ports. We look not only politically, but geographically! We've got... In fact, it is the backbone of our economy, it is one of our logistics vertebrae. And I think it is very important, especially for these citizens - the Rigans and the Holys - who are facing it. Therefore, if we hear that the ZZS is conceptually 'no' - no, that is not the case. We, the FAO, would be even conceptually “for”, but we are rational and are calling for proof that this model will bring more benefit than evil. At the moment, there is absolutely absolute conviction that in general, these residents, both the inhabitants of the capital and the inhabitants of Ventspils city, will bring more bad than good. And if we are talking about proposal 19, it also recommends keeping some little more sense... that the city should be, in the immediate sense of the word, co-responsible for the processes that take place; that there really should not be any kind of competition or intolerance between itself in time; that it should be more beneficial than evil. And that is why we made all these proposals. Therefore, my fellow Members, I really call for being rational, reasonable and for sound proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U124	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U125	Well, on behalf of the Commission, I can say that Members have drawn attention to the potential consequences if such a proposal were to be supported... in particular regarding the granting of building rights in the port already in possession... For example, on transferred land... Consequently, the Commission did not support the proposal. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U126	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! For - 10, for - 49, for - 14. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U127	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr Valaina's proposal. This proposal, which is in principle on the same subject, was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U128	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U129	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal for a... So, too, the so-called implementation of your projects, but on land that has already been transferred... at the port. This proposal was also not supported by the Commission. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U130	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 21. - Member Valaina's proposal! Please, let's vote! On - 9, against - 46, refraining from - 15. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U131	22. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. This determines exactly the procedure that the port area will have; how this building right issue will be addressed, which... The committee also said that this had been a rather serious problem. Members took note of this proposal, felt that we were in favour and supported it. I call for support by voting in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U132	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U133	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal made by Member Wuzan on the detection of inappropriate or uncoordinated behaviour by local authorities and its consequences. Members of the Commission decided not to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U134	Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U135	Colleagues! Indeed, my proposal is to add paragraph 5.2 to Article 4 of the Ports Act. Furthermore, this wording reads as follows: ‘When a municipality has established that it is not economically sound, useless or that the municipality does not coordinate with the real estate belonging to the municipality, it is entitled to recover the real estate transferred to the managing body of the port and take over it in its possession by notifying the managing body of the port two months in advance.’ We have already argued enough today, and I will not repeat these arguments. Please support this, 23, proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U136	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U137	It was not acceptable for the Members of the Commission that the municipality was then entitled to recover the assets already held and, therefore, the members of the Commission rejected this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U138	Please call me! We will vote in favour 23. - Member Wuzan's proposal! Please, let's vote! For -9, for -50, for -16. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U139	24. - Mr Valaina's proposal. This provides for the exclusion of the fourth paragraph of Article 2 of the draft law, which in turn provides for changes to the sixth paragraph of Article 4 of the law. And actually... Yes, Members of the Commission rejected this proposal during the debate. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U140	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U141	Colleagues! In my opinion, this proposal falls within the concept of the Union of Greens/farmers with regard to the examination of the draft law, but it is quite editorial that this proposal does not really have the right place at this point in time. Therefore, colleagues, I call on you to vote and... Please do not take part in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U142	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U143	No, well... The Commission has rejected this. I call for the rejection of this, as the Commission has decided.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U144	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 24. - Member Valaina's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - no, for - 49, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U145	25. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. That's the essence... is again so that it is... At the end of the proposal there is a sentence: ‘The right of construction in the port territory shall be granted in accordance with the provisions of the Civil Law.’ It should be recalled that, in the case of ports, this could be rather burdensome, because in a normal way entrepreneurs cannot bring anything on as if a foreign land... if it were in accordance with the provisions of the Civil Law. Of course, the Commission has examined and rejected this proposal. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U146	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 25. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! For - 4, for - 49, for - 10, for - 10, for - 49, for - 10. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U147	26. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. It also talks about building rights, in this case what is happening after their termination. And it was recognised as a good proposal, supported. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U148	Please call me! To be put to the vote on 26. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkait! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 61, against - 1, refrains. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U149	27. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal, which provides for the rewording of Article 5 of the law. There, too, we are talking about how the lease, lease and so on of state-owned or municipality-owned land could take place. In the Commission, Members took note of this proposal, listened to it and rejected it. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U150	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U151	28. - Mr Valaina's proposal. It provides for the exclusion of Article 3 of the draft law, which refers to Article 5 of the law, ‘the port operating documents’. So we should not make this clarification. However, in the opinion of the members of the commission, we should. That is why this proposal was rejected by the Commission. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U152	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 28. - Member Valaina's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 3, for - 50, for - 13. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U153	29. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Clears the issues of international treaties and laws related to... This is about Article 5 of this Law. The Commission was supported. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U154	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U155	30. - a proposal from the FAO Group. It is envisaged to complement the draft law with a new article on port rules. So they are now local authorities issued after coordination with the Ministry of Transport. This concept was not acceptable to Members and Members rejected the proposal. On behalf of the Commission, I call for the rejection.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U156	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U157	In our view, it would be only right if the municipality council issued binding regulations in this context, because this... as has already been said, this creation of a capital company... by not including in any way sufficient responsibility for the municipality itself, for the working organisations of this capital company... Such a proposal would only be encouraging, so we could facilitate the involvement of the municipality in the management of the capital company. Colleagues, also on this proposal... In any case, I would like to say that I should support it, however, I would call on my colleagues not to vote in favour of this proposal either. In my opinion, this cannot be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U158	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U159	Yes, we, the Group, too, believe that this proposal cannot be voted on. And I also call on my group colleagues not to vote, not to take part in the vote on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U160	I closed the debate. What is to be said on behalf of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U161	On behalf of the Commission, I call for this proposal to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-12-PT13-2319-U162	The Bureau has not recognised that the proposal should not be put to the vote. Let us put it to the vote. Please call me! We will vote for 30. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So there's no quorum. I have to vote again. Please call me! We will vote for 30. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So we found that this time, too, there is no quorum. Dear colleagues, So, by 9 a.m. on November 25, this year. Registration. Registration is over. We will continue work on the bill at 9 a.m. on 25 November this year. ( Interruption)
