ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2209-U1	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! On 11 March 2021, the Saeima opened its second remote emergency session. On the agenda, statements by the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Road Traffic Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the member Viktoras Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Janina Jalinska, Jānis Dūklavs, Armands Krauze, Edgars Tatars, Jānis Vucanas, Gundars Kaite, Raimonds Bergmanis and Māra Kučinska's draft law be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible. Do Members have objections? Members have not applied for a vote in the debate; a vote has been requested. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Microbusiness Tax Act” presented by Mr Valaiņa, Mr Jalinska, Mr Dūklava, Mr Krauze, Mr Tatars, Mr Vucanas, Mr Kauges, Mr Bergmanis and Mr Kučinska! Please, let's vote! For - 29, for - 44, for - 2. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Covid-19 Law on the Management of communicable Effects” (No. 970/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the Commission responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection” (No. 973/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. To move to the second section of the agenda, entitled ‘Review of draft decisions’. The draft decision “On the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 5 March 2021 No. 140 amending Order of 6 November 2020 No. 655 ‘Proclaiming an emergency’. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2209-U2	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! The Commission of Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption discussed yesterday at the meeting of 10 March 2021 the current Cabinet of Ministers order on amendments to the declared emergency situation. I would like to say that there are no new restrictions in this order. In other words, nothing is once again restricted and reinforced. Rather, this decree refers to certain reliefs in the field of education and sport. I may be short enough to refer to some of them. Therefore, the order provides that under certain conditions and in compliance with certain epidemiological safety requirements individual higher education programmes are allowed to acquire practical part of individual higher education programmes in person at the Latvian University of Agriculture in the second level vocational study programme “Veterinarian medicine” and in the course of studies “Health care” in all study programmes (including vocational secondary education programmes and vocational education programmes) as well as in the residency of clinical practice. The amendments to the Ordinance also provide that on-the-spot individual consultations are allowed for learners who are at risk of early school leaving in primary and secondary education, as well as general education programmes for 12th-class learners and vocational education programmes for learners who are expected to undergo national tests in the first half of 2021 and receive appropriate vocational education. Practical training (in the railway, road, maritime and aviation subsectors, as well as in passenger transport, freight and dangerous goods transport) required to acquire the rights of the driver of the various categories listed in the order section is also allowed. The order also provides that a part of the individual practice of a foster parent’s and adoptor’s curriculum can be acquired at a distance or replaced by additional theoretical knowledge of at least 16 academic hours on issues that contribute to the understanding of the entry of a non-family child into the family. The amendments also provide that if the documents supporting the first medical aid expire during an emergency, they shall be deemed to be valid until the end of the emergency. As I have already mentioned, the amendments to the order also provide for certain facilities and conditions for sports competitions and training, both indoor and outdoor, for certain categories of athletes and for the competitions mentioned in more detail in this order. When considering specific amendments and facilitations, the panel heard professionals in relevant fields who have the appropriate education and qualifications, who also have the appropriate experience in the field of infection and related issues of virus... including reduction of viral load. And we were also shown an appropriate presentation of the overall situation as it is at the moment. The Minister of Health has already named various things, several figures. I'm not going to do it again. I will remind you of the general situation that has been mentioned to us by the experts in question. So the situation is as follows. From the beginning of the year, that is, from the first week of this year to the ninth week, or at this point, the virus’s prevalence has decreased by 41.3 percent. Over the last two weeks, virus prevalence has decreased by 11.2 percent. The number of positive tests has decreased from a previous average of 11.8 per cent to 5.1 per cent. The fourteen-day cumulative number of cases per 100 thousand people since mid-January of this year, when it was 690 cases, has now fallen to 420. For comparison: in Estonia, as you know – the Minister for Health named the current data – they were above 1420. Next, if we talk about illness in social care centres and medical institutions. It has fallen from 12.1 percent to 1.7 percent in social care centres since the beginning of the year. In medical institutions – from 9.6 to 3 percent. On the other hand, when it comes to hospital numbers, it has, of course, also decreased, and now the seven-day cumulative number... The number of hospitals is 71. Of course, I want better, but now the number has stabilised. But that's not particularly small either. Jobs and households are the most common places of infection. Overall, looking at the European background... In Europe, in the Nordic countries, including Finland, Sweden, Norway, there is an increase in infection; Estonia may not even be worth talking about; there is a huge increase in numbers. There is also an increase in prevalence in the Czech Republic and other countries. In Poland, according to the latest news, too. So another interesting section that has been demonstrated is the comparison of data on the incidence in schools in Estonia and Latvia. From the beginning of the year when schools were already closed in Latvia for some time and were not working, the incidence in schools in Latvia was lower than in Estonia by 5.8 percent or 354 cases per week. This is a huge difference. In the eighth week, when Latvian schools continued to be closed, but Estonians were already forced to close part, it is still the lowest in Latvia. In Latvia, the incidence is therefore 5,7 percentage points lower (also today) than in Estonian schools, with 266 fewer cases per week than in Estonia. It has also been observed that the incidence of the new British strain is more common among children, which is why educational institutions continue to be at risk for us. Generally speaking, when hearing experts with whom education, experience, qualifications and the ability to see the correlation between restrictive measures and the spread of reducing infection, there was no doubt in the Commission. After hearing the experts, the panel decided that the specific amendments to the Ordinance were acceptable, proportionate and necessary. Therefore, colleagues, I call for support to the draft decision prepared by the Commission, which supports the amendments of the Cabinet of Ministers in the declared emergency situation. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2209-U3	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2209-U4	Dear colleagues, This time I will really ask for the opportunity to take advantage of this situation and to report to the Minister for Health some very important message and to call on us, on the part of the non-group Members... individual, urgent action. If the other Members joined us, that would be very good. The current situation is about the effects of a specific vaccine. According to publicly available information... Communication from the Danish health authorities of 11 March concerning the suspension of AstraZeneca vaccine in Denmark. We are not talking about stopping a particular series at the moment, but we are talking specifically about the fact that Denmark has stopped the entire use of AstraZeneca vaccine on Danish territory, given the serious concerns about the side effects of the vaccine. If we are talking about the need to protect human lives, then we must also be prepared to protect human lives from things such as serious side-effects for new and unexplored medicines. We understand that there is a desire to help people and to respond urgently to this challenge of the coronavirus, but this must be done with wisdom and with due regard for all precautions. I therefore call on the Saeima, given that the Saeima is a public troop and we are currently having a debate on the emergency order, and we are also heard by the general public - it is a public call for Mr Pavļuta to even consider today's decision to take urgent action on AstraZeneca vaccines, to study the series of these vaccines... the number of the supplier for the Danish vaccines and a decision on the risk that AstraZeneca vaccines can currently pose to Latvian citizens. Thank you, this is all for me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2209-U5	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2209-U6	Thank you. I just have one question. Today we are talking about reliefs in restrictions, but two consecutive days are held in the Cabinet of Ministers sittings, where the issue of different plans – A, B, C, D, with which new restrictions will be introduced. I understand that this situation in Latvia, thank God, has improved, it is a joy. But if we take a decision on the reliefs today and tomorrow we will have to look at the removal of the reliefs, because it is not known what the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers will be made, maybe we should really wait for this decision when the draft decision prepared with the help of specialists will appear, where all the risks that are and are not will be taken into account, and what situation will appear at the time when the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers becomes a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2209-U7	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2209-U8	Two things. First thing. The numbers are falling radically right now. I record them every day to catch a coalition and a basic injury. If the last seven days are taken, there shall be minus 21 per cent against the previous seven days. If you take Monday, Tuesday, there shall be minus 29 per cent against Monday and Tuesday of the previous week. The restrictions should be abolished because those percentages are lower than in November, December, than in the absence of such restrictions. And the other thing. In a number of European countries, the spread of AstraZeneca vaccine is suspended due to the danger to human health. In Latvia, distribution of AstraZeneca vaccine should be stopped immediately, if the coalition already cares for human health and life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2209-U9	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, would you like to add something else, Mr Ranzan?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2209-U10	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to add that in the last few days, the snow will come up again, and I thank the government for the far-sighted decision that resolved mountain activities. Thank you, colleagues. I call for support for the specific draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-11-PT13-2209-U11	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On Cabinet of Ministers Order of 5 March 2021 No. 140 amending Order of 6 November 2020 No. 655 “Advertising the Emergency”! Please, let's vote! For -63, for -1, for -15. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, The agenda for the second remote emergency session of 11 March 2021 has therefore been examined. Registration of Members' presence. This has happened. I'm closing this sitting. We meet at 14:15.
