ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U1	Honourable Members! Let's start the second remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 14 January 2021. On the agenda - consideration of draft decisions. Draft decision on the order of 7 January 2021 of the Cabinet of Ministers 4 amending Order of 6 November 2020 No. 655 ‘Proclaiming an emergency’. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U2	Good morning, dear colleagues! In its meeting of 13 January 2021, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined the Cabinet of Ministers Order of 7 January 2021. 4 “Amendments to the Cabinet Order of 6 November 2020 No. 655 ‘Proclaiming an emergency’. I will name the most important things - as usual. From 12 January 2021 to 25 January 2021, restrictions on the provision of services relating to beauty and well-being services shall be maintained; motor hunting shall be prohibited, as well as established marketing restrictions shall be maintained. The list of primary-needed household goods authorised to be placed on the market has been updated. It is supplemented with things needed due to seasonal circumstances, as well as things for the household... in relation to hygiene and sanitary conditions. The specific list of products is published on both the Ministry of Economics and Cabinet of Ministers websites. In principle, the trade restrictions imposed will continue; they will be supplemented with those goods without which it is not possible to survive for the time being. Internet commerce is still not restricted and needs to be carried out freely. The amendments also state that until 25 January 2021 the ban on travelling during the holiday hours of the night will continue in order to prevent gatherings and visits. In future, citizens are given the opportunity to receive reception of books in libraries; natural trails are also open, and outdoor recreation is possible. In addition, access rights for children with parents who do not live in the same household have to be guaranteed. In such cases, a meeting shall be possible unless one of the parents or members of the parent household is required to comply with the requirements of isolation, quarantine or self-insulation. Winter holiday in schools from 1 to 4th grade is extended. It shall continue until 22 January of this year to resume the season only on 25 January. On the other hand, grades 5 and 6 resumed their training this week, staying at home for a week longer than usual. The conditions for education in Muryan Sports Gymnasium and in high-class fitness centres are also specified, with the exception of training in indoor and outdoor spaces. Participation in team games in international and highest league sports events is now also possible for minors and professional athletes. In view of the fact that in a situation where a critical medical shortage has occurred in hospitals, it is also more important to support students in medical education programmes, in particular those in the sixth year of vocational higher education programmes “Medical” and “Medical” studies, to ensure the completion of a continuous study process, so that graduates get a degree of doctor in 2021 and can continue their studies in residence. It is therefore necessary, where possible, to ensure that these students learn the practical part of their studies, taking into account all epidemiological safety measures. And one of the last amendments is that from 12 January, the obligation to organise work is maintained so that only those employees who ensure continuity of work and cannot carry it out remotely in their place of residence can carry out their duties. The Commission, having heard the representatives of the Ministry, the authorities, the Infectologists and legal experts, considered the amendments to the Ordinance to be justified, proportionate and necessary in a given situation. I therefore call for support for the draft decision drawn up by the Commission. Thank you for your attention, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U3	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U4	Good morning, dear colleagues! Again, of course, we can talk about the timeliness of the approval or re-approval of these amendments, because today we will decide that students in grades 5-6... has actually been enjoying their holiday... Well, how much have you enjoyed in these conditions, but... However, I would remind my coalition colleagues once again of the high need that we have... so that we can approve these amendments to the Cabinet Order, not when everything has already happened, but take responsibility with the members of the government for what is currently happening in the country. The position that the Saeima has now, of course, is very good for colleagues in the coalition because, as we can see, it is also about carrying children masks... The Saeima has played the role of a so-called good police officer - has put these issues to the government again. Well, sorry, what to do is the government decided, however, that these masks for children are necessary despite that... Despite that... stress that the risk of infection is still very high, that the number of infections continues to rise or at least to stay very high, and nothing at the moment indicates that we have been taken off this... curves that we've leveled it out, at least without buying socks and plasticine. But if we're serious about this, this order still includes cynical treatment of kindergarten-growers... It has not been thought at any time that they would need allowances and personal protective equipment at this time, in these difficult circumstances, - now that they are taking care that parents who are not able to work on the ground can ensure the continuity of their work. And more. Most cynical... What is included in this order at the moment is that we do not care at all, as you say, about our children... they have to go to school. Those little children have to go to school! In the same order, the last point that was read by Mr. Rancán, the honourable, is that, as far as possible... look for all options available to the employer to ensure that the work is carried out remotely. And the exception is, for example, the same cashiers, the same settlers, the same taxi drivers and so on... And with this exception... There are young children to whom we offer to wear some masks that were answered yesterday by the Ministry of Health, and this response is absolutely unsatisfactory. So the quality of this mask has not been studied, and what you are going to do right now - you will carry out a study on the effectiveness of the mask on our little children - Class 1-4. Just listen to what you are about to do right now! Of course, it is clear that this absolutely unnecessary holiday, in the parents' opinion, has extended to 25 January... What are you going to do on January 25th? You're really gonna put your kids in school, I understand, right? You're going to risk their health? So this long holiday... Holiday is stretched out - why? The answer is very simple: because, as soon as the learning process is not ensured, the country is not obliged to support the parents. Remote training would be a very good solution. Everyone asked for it, both parents, LAYDA and teachers... Also individually - but you don't care. So you have to save at the expense of your parents. And you saved also at the expense of food packages, because children do not have to be fed during this school holiday. You’re really “false”. It's as cynical as you are doing with our children right now! I just... I think all these decisions... all these government decisions will enter history as the most cynical and foolishst decisions. If we are talking about the list of permitted products, it will be a page of Latvian history, which will then be written about, I think, very many books. This order, too. In my opinion, this cannot be confirmed by any means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U5	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U6	Good morning, Latvian society! Good morning, colleagues! Good morning, those I like and those I don't like! All these restrictions. Let's start with education. In the field of education, we could, of course, blame Shuplinsk from the KPP (Rancan is also, by the way, from the KPP), but that would be just as pointless as to blame cosmic emptiness for the fact that this emptiness is at all, because it is absolutely clear that the Minister for Education and Science has done nothing for children's education. The only solution is to hit children's masks, muzzles... no matter how to call them... and then thinks it will be a solution. Six hours of compression in classes, and - forward! You need to look at how you do it abroad. Extraterrestrials do it very simply - smaller classes, present for hours... part - non-lacing, part - face; smaller classes, ventilated rooms. Not everyone gets compressed, as it is with us. And don't take long holidays, as it is with us, so that our children may be more silly. That's the first thing. Nothing has been done in education on an annual basis (now almost a year will be around). Nothing! The other thing. For those purchases. Follie - mustn't, the foil is something particularly sticky... with those viruses; children's gloves, children's winter clothes - they can't. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I realize that alcohol helps when a little temperature rises, perhaps 50 grams. But in general... I think it is simply clear to the general public how absurd those decisions are. Go on. Hairdressers are not allowed to work, but CSDD... right to put, drive in a car two unknown people all day long and change - allowed. In one case there is relatively close contact, in the other case there is even less close contact. But now... comparable situations. What else is absurd to say to you? So the government takes them decisions, and now with a retroactive date... In principle, the Saeima now, as such a validator, as such an unnecessary application, an appendix, confirms something that has long been in force. ( Clapo.) The clap got in. Next. Dear Society, you have to understand that they're going to talk here... They're talking about vaccines here now - they have to take the power and that's it, and then they're having some March, April... then they'll be champions again. It's all going to be over. In Latvia, the state of emergency will be up to... You will not be able, dear people, to work at least until spring (Spring - it would be as minimum) because our government is as it is. And our government - Karin, the Minister for Health and everyone else - must also take responsibility for those people who die at this time. Because nothing is done; there is only a simulation of action, and that's all. And one more thing to say. I fully agree that there is a virus; I agree that people die from various diseases, not just one virus, but I want to pay attention to statistics. And the relevant statistical data for the last 10 years can be consulted on the Central Statistical Office website and the Disease Prevention and Control Centre website, you can compare the data for the last 10 years. Latvia died on average as many people in 2020 as in the last 10 years. In Latvia, five out of 10 years have actually been more dead than in 2020. And actually in these circumstances... Someone will say: “Yes, but there are people who have left, and this has led to an increase in numbers... “ But I want to remind you that the statistics also take into account nationals who are not in Latvia. So this argument is not working. We see that official statistics for 2020 do not show the facts about which power, basic injury and the like are being talked about. This shows a little bit of another question. And this should be discussed publicly - as it really is. I would call for this not to be supported. And I would invite all people to join the “Law and Order” party. You can still do that this week. The sooner you do this, the sooner this inability government falls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U7	Name to Member Uldis Augums.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U8	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I would like to highlight one issue that should probably also be decided by the government when establishing or amending future regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. We know that from 15 January restrictions will come into effect... that it has been established that citizens of the Republic of Latvia, including citizens, if they cannot show the Covid-19 test, will be denied entry into the territory of the Republic of Latvia, as well as... In the case of a positive Covid-19 test only transport is permitted (Sound rupture.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U9	So we're out of contact with Member Uldi Planty. ( Pause) Let's give you a chance, let's wait a little bit. Perhaps Member Plantis is able to join the sitting. ( Pause) Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U10	Dear colleagues, Let us give our colleague the opportunity to solve his technical problems. So... Listening to the previous discussion... And salt more serious... It is possible that coalition Members, the head of the commission or those who have worked closely with this question could answer the following question... It is clear to me that these restrictions adopted by the government, including restrictions on the range of goods, are probably aimed at reducing some kind of driving, the number of journeys... the fact that people go to shops and supermarkets, but does the government take some steps to see if these instruments, which the government chooses, work at all? I mean, I think there's no big problem with using, for example, mobile operators' data, from which you can see how often people go to the same shops, supermarkets... Now, maybe not so much... the extent to which they remain at home compared to the period during which there were no such restrictions. It would be possible to conclude from this whether these new constraints of the government have been introduced in some way... Part or all of this achieves its objective. It can only be concluded that the government chooses: now - this further restriction, now - this, and now - another third and fourth and fifth. And then go on – without any idea whether this plan “A” has worked at all... or - the extent to which Plan B has worked. And so on. Well, I hope... I see that colleagues will also help to ensure this time for Mr. Plant. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U11	Thank you. Mr. Plant is in the system. If you wish to continue, please apply again for a debate. Name to Member Uldis Augums.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U12	There obviously was some kind of Internet break... I have already started to talk about these restrictions, which come into force on 15 January. Protocol No. to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms 4which provides for certain rights and freedoms not included in the Convention and its first Protocol... The second paragraph of Article 3 provides that no person may be deprived of the right to enter the territory of the State of which he is a national. However, European Union countries use different methods to reduce the prevalence of Covid-19, mainly through self-insulation or quarantine after entry. The existence of a Covid-19 negative test is also a mandatory requirement for a large number of countries. What is identical to all countries is the distribution of migrants among citizens, i.e. citizens of the European Union, European Economic Area and third-country nationals, as well as by country of entry (so-called high and low-risk countries). Countries are in addition introducing travel bans - bans on entering from countries with increased disease rates, for example, flights from the United Kingdom and the Republic of South Africa are banned in some of the European Union countries. At the same time, it should be pointed out that countries do not generally prevent their citizens from entering in cases where they do not have negative Covid-19 tests, imposing an obligation on individuals to carry out Covid-19 tests immediately after entry and to comply with self-insulation or quarantine. For example, Denmark, Norway, Lithuania, Estonia, France and Portugal do not restrict the entry of their citizens, but rather restrict their citizens' so-called freedom of movement within the country, as well as the arrangements for testing, self- isolation or quarantine. Many countries provide for the possibility to carry out tests immediately after entry. Article 98 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia provides: “Everyone has the right to leave Latvia freely. Anyone holding a Latvian passport is in the state defence outside Latvia and has the right to return freely to Latvia.” In addition, the responsibility of the State towards its citizens must be taken into account, especially if they are located outside the territory of the Republic of Latvia. It is unacceptable that a country, unable to ensure compliance with the epidemiological safety rules, prevents its citizens from entering and therefore possibly leaving abroad without means of subsistence. At the same time, it is the duty of the State to ensure security for citizens who have not travelled outside the territory of the Republic of Latvia - to restrict freedom of movement by imposing obligations on those who have travelled outside the territory of Latvia. In view of all this I mentioned... I would ask the government to include the following amendments when examining these provisions... Add to point 35.1: “The citizens of the Republic of Latvia who do not have a negative Covid-19 test prior to entry into the Republic of Latvia carried out 72 hours prior to entry into the carrier’s vehicle or the vehicle which does not carry out commercial transport shall be obliged to apply for the Covid-19 test no later than 12 hours after entry into the Republic of Latvia; if the opportunity to carry out the Covid-19 test at the place of entry is ensured, the Covid-19 test must be carried out immediately after entry; without leaving the place of entry until the person has received the negative test result, the person must be in self-insulation.” These persons shall be subject to the insulation requirements of paragraph 54 of this Regulation both before and after receiving the Covid-19 test results. Dear colleagues, Since it is popular for us at the moment - everyone to express their views on the amendments to the Satversme...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U13	Mr. Plant, speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U14	Yeah, thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U15	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U16	Colleagues! Yesterday I had a conversation with a citizen of the Republic of Latvia who is living abroad, who wants to return to Latvia, and work in Latvia, because he found a wonderful job here. And he calls the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - to the Consular Department - calling everywhere and telling his problem that from the country from which he comes, he has this test, but that he can physically get their result longer than after two hours and that so he can no longer board the plane... or get on board, no matter. And the answer from the Consular Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is that this is not their problem. Our foreign service does not care about the citizens of our country who want to return to Latvia. This is not our foreign service problem! It's absurd. I call on the entire foreign service to address this problem now and immediately. He's ready to sit in self-insulation... Everywhere... after arrival, if you need it, but fix it! Address the problems of citizens of the Republic of Latvia so that no such calls should be received! Or another case. You want such a more serious case with all these community limitations. A woman called me, a pregnant woman who lost her child because she was not given medical treatment in time because there was no result of the comma tests. That is your policy! She's crying, yeah. Later, I will publish to you a letter that she wrote to me on receipt; it will be publicly available. This is your policy: you have not touched the lives of people. People who want to return to Latvia, you did not get involved. Think about it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U17	The name to Member Uldis Augums for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U18	Dear colleagues, I didn't finish. Since it is now popular for us - everyone to speak about amendments to the Constitution - one amendment to the Constitution will divide the peoples even more at a time when everyone must be as united as possible in the fight against the pandemic, which is the most important task in the country at the moment. At the same time, we see that the Cabinet of Ministers approves regulations that are contrary to those laid down in the Constitution. The fact that the state is unable to ensure order... regulations within the country, the fact that we are unable to convince people to listen and understand restrictions, is not a reason and must not be the reason to prevent countrymen from returning to Latvia. Therefore, colleagues, I call once again on the government to listen, to reassess this paragraph of the rules so that we can be sure that the Covid-19 will not spread, but at the same time we would not restrict any freedom to our compatriots, our people, to the citizens of the Republic of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U19	Name to Member Raimond Bergman.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U20	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Yesterday in the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, we heard from many institutions about the situation, but we are still waiting for us to really... in this case - adopt and approve these decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers here in the Saeima... more extensive and perhaps more reasonable adoption of these orders... way, because we really... Many ask questions... And we have heard very many different proposals in our discussions too, but there is still a feeling that those Members who are not in a coalition... Their proposals are not always... you need to listen to them, or perhaps even talk about them. But in this case, I will probably also call on my group to vote in favour, but with hope... hope that in the future... what the group leader, Mr. Plantis, has just spoken about... Now we listen to those proposals that may indeed be very important! But at this point, when it is so difficult to manage the country, there are many difficult issues to deal with... Decisions taken... perhaps they have never been adopted before, but they have to be adopted, so we will now be supporting them, but with great hope we are looking to the future that perhaps we will ever listen to the proposals that we have put forward. They are also aimed at helping all Latvian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U21	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U22	Colleagues! I would just like to draw the attention of probably the most reasonable Members to the fact that, in fact, now, when voting on these amendments in the Cabinet of Ministers order, you are voting in favour of children of grades 1-4 sitting at home for another week without any training process, neither do parents receive any... No food package, no benefit. It's just a time drag. At the moment you are in favour of the delay in this time, and it is not about some kind of life saving or additional restriction, the same restrictions... most of it all stays, there's nothing very much to change... in this whole story, everything is very, in my opinion, unthinkable. And, as Mr Dombrovskis rightly pointed out, there is no follow-up on whether these restrictions really help. Maybe I wouldn't support... not - maybe, but really wouldn't support their tracking... tracking people moving through mobile phones. I am - clearly! - on human freedom, on freedom of movement, but what would be very important - to follow exactly how, for example, the ban on a particular group of goods affects the numbers in question, because what we saw - in fact this ban on the government, which was issued before Christmas and prevented people from visiting trade outlets, resulted in people actually visiting them within one or two days - mass. Well, then, many of them must have done so to damage their health and also put others at risk because it may not have been possible to take all precautions in that situation. However, as we know, the greatest precaution is that of distance, not more.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U23	Thank you, thank you. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U24	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I'm talking about this draft regulation... Of course, I can only join those colleagues who have talked about the adoption of these rules, but - these are control mechanisms... I think everyone can see how creative our entrepreneurs are, and the proof of creativity is - you can go by any supermarket and see how many cars are in supermarket parking. Clearly, trade continues to take place only in another way. And then there is the question: how do we ensure that the decisions taken by the government are actually followed up. And this is our biggest challenge right now. If we look at regions, there is a border between Lithuania... We see all these pretty crazy statistics in Lithuania, and also in Latvia morbidity statistics are not very encouraging. These control mechanisms, what... I shall receive the following information from at least the regions... exactly those on the Lithuanian border... If we compare the first wave to the second wave, then we see that in the first wave people really took very seriously... And it also created such an impression... Every newcomer... There were also cases when the convoy accompanied the home to be self - isolation, and so forth. At present, people find it much easier to see all of this - when they enter peacefully, when they cross the border. It does not apply to our citizens, it does apply to those who enter; at least I get this message that these people do not really respect the limits and rules that apply to them. But neither does the State do anything to really do so. That's one chapter. However, the most important part of these regulations is, in my opinion, the education chapter. And I'd like to... I fully join Mrs Stepanenko in saying that it is precisely because of the educational chapter that these rules should not be supported. I call on the officials of the Ministry of Education and Science, above all the Ministers of Education and Science, to think very carefully about what is happening in the field of education during this pandemic. The fact that the field of education is dead is, in my opinion, unacceptable. Even one weekend is not allowed. Solutions need to be found! All of this has far-reaching consequences. They are not just happy children who may like to sleep a little longer at home; however, these children are the main victims; their parents and educators are also victims - all together. If training can be organized remotely, then it must be done. And I think these cases... and also the blasphemy of the LIZDA, the accusations of the Latvian Council of Rector... We are not too far from submitting to the Saeima a request from the opposition for the resignation of the Minister of Education and Science. And I thought... I will support these rules today. However, I call on the Ministers of Education and Science to really start thinking about our children, about the quality of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U25	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U26	Good morning, honourable colleagues! The country is still in an emergency situation, and there is a commanding hour as well. Yesterday, when examining this order, too, there were many questions: how do we act or do we act correctly. Did we conclude anything about what we did or not? I have questions like that - and I also had yesterday - about what the country... what the government conceals, what the state does not tell us in fact. Why is that very small... low response to those vaccinations, why have only seven thousand been vaccinated in two weeks? Why were ministers supposed to change, if so... Is that so? Not only is the Minister himself, one surname, responsible for the Ministry of Health, but the whole party from which he is appointed, nominated, is responsible for this sector - health care, the Ministry of Health. And, as we see now, after those last interviews... What Mrs. Viņķele said openly - that unfortunately... that the state, as I understand it, did not help her, a “help” so that these processes did not go very well. But when you need tonight news to show up... that the entire government supports us and wants to show itself, its position against the Covid-19... then all - both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Economics - speak, when they have to answer - then they are not responsible for this. Well, sorry, so all four ministers are responsible... at least on this. In fact, it was last week's question of confidence in the government. So the government needs to think about whether they need to put down their mandates or not if they can't... And now, too... As Pavilut just sits in the chair of the Minister for Health, it immediately declares that we lacked the vaccine... only until the end of January, but the news showed that after four - after four! - for days, the vaccine may be dead. Well, listen, in November we were told that we had a reserved four-producer vaccine, a now we bought actually only one vaccine, others are not even allowed to buy. Now explain to people why... what there is, why medical staff also don't want to vaccinate who there is in it... Is that so? Then, please, let me know. If you don't want first-order people in the red area to vaccinate, then let's go to second, third, fourth, but let its line go! The sooner, the better. Not that in two weeks, only seven thousand. We need seven thousand vaccinations every day! We have almost two million people living in Latvia, and they need to go through this process twice. That does not correspond to what we expect. In this difficult time in Latvia, everyone needs to be united - as it was in 1991, 30 years ago, when everyone was on the barricades. And it needs to be today, too. You need to understand that position... We need to talk to the opposition, we need to meet. But if I ask questions... Mr. Karins and... Or other ministers, how many times have you met with members of the opposition for eight months, with representatives of the opposition, to discuss this subject, how to do better, what we see? You are only voting against our proposals, and that is all. So I'm calling... The Social Democratic Party 'Conciliation' cannot support this order... the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U27	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U28	Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission. I invite you to support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U29	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On Cabinet of Ministers Order of 7 January 2021 No. 4 amending Order of 6 November 2020 No. 655 “Advertising the Emergency”! Please, let's vote! On - 66, against - 4, refrain - 17. Decision adopted. On the agenda - examination of a request from Members. The request made by Members. Members Viktors Valainis, Lubova Švecova, Uldis Augulis, Janīna Jalinska, Edgars Tavars, Armands Krauze, Jānis Vucāns, Māris Kučinskis, Raimonds Bergmanis and Jūlija Stepanenko have submitted a request to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš “On a possible investigation into the acquisition of vaccine against COVID-19”. Name for motivation to Member Viktor Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U30	Yes, colleagues! “ I have to say, ” he said. I have to apply!’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U31	Mr. Valains! You have to log in to make a time report possible. Thank you. The name of Member Viktor Valainis - motivation.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U32	Colleagues! So, on this request. There have now been a number of accusations in public space - both the rejection by the head of government of the former Minister for Health for her failure to work and the absence of a plan, and the accusation by the former Minister for Health of the Prime Minister that he is lying. In my opinion, this is not an acceptable situation at a time of crisis. At the same time... Of course, the Minister has changed, but with the change in public space, the suspicion has also been made - several suspicions! - on any unauthorised lobbying... on the Ministry of Health as a ministry consisting of lobbying... from various entrepreneurs... And with what result? The result is that the new Minister, Mr Pavļuta, has launched a test, a service test, at the Ministry of Health for the whole process of how these vaccines have been purchased. The Prime Minister has also expressed his reflection on the fact that it would not be acceptable and it would be unforgivable if there had been some kind of lobbying in the Ministry. It also seems to me that - especially in these circumstances - the Ministry of Health has already created such a rather big shadow of doubt around those purchases. We all know what happened around the masks. Sponsor... the related companies had participated in this process and this, in my opinion, is not really acceptable. And we all know what it ended with. It is not so much about how the mask was bought from its own, but about the fact that in the end those masks were bought that could simply by nature be thrown out. However, in this case, the head of government has the appropriate possibilities... And, in my opinion, the only way to check the substance of whether there has been order here would not be the service investigation proposed by Mr Pavļuta at the moment, but rather the investigation carried out by a prosecutor appointed by the government. And Mr Stukan, as the new prosecutor, the prosecutor general, should follow all this and make it clear who is lying, who is not lying; there is or has not been lobbying. There is no clear answer from politicians. It must be one of the sides, and the Prime Minister has the authority to give such an order. And I call on them to be used and I call for them to be used by the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U33	Thank you. Consequently, we shall refer the request to the Requesting Commission. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. The draft decision on the appointment of the Auditor General. Honourable Members! Three candidates have been nominated for the post of Auditor General. In line with the parliamentary order, the vote on all the candidates must take place at the same time and with the ballot papers. A candidate shall be considered elected if, in accordance with Articles 23 and 24 of the Satversme, at least half of the members of the Saeima participate in the vote and the candidate has obtained an absolute majority of the votes of the Members present. At the remote sitting of the Saeima, an open vote with ballot papers shall take place on the platform e-Saeima by filling in the electronic electoral sign. Colleagues, I would like to remind you that voting on the 'For' mark does not involve more than one candidate. You can make the mark 'To All' if you want to vote against all candidates, and you can submit an election sign that does not contain a mark, but such an election mark will be considered invalid. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Inese Voika. We can't hear you, Mrs. Voika. We can't hear it! ( Pause) We can't hear it. We can't hear it! Mrs. Voika may be on the keyboard of the computer... Perhaps a microphone is switched off. Pay attention to the keyboard, check that any key(s) is (interface.) ... It's the top row in the middle section... You still can't hear. ( Milestones.) We still can't hear it. We can't hear you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U34	Yes, please...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U35	Now we hear it! Mrs Voika, we hear you in the e-Saime. Well, that's where the technical problems were solved. So, once again, the word for Member Inese Voika. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U36	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Today we are working on Parliament's draft decision No. 537 Lm13. Legal Commission in accordance with Article 31 of the Saeima roll... At its meeting of 12 January 2021, part of the meeting was examined by the Saeima Bureau decision of 6 January 2021. The parliamentary nominations for the office of the Auditor-General, which were Ilze Grinhof, Edgars Korčagins and Rolands Irklis. The Legal Commission listened to and evaluated the compliance of candidates for the position of the Auditor General with the requirements of the position of the Auditor General set in Article 30 of the Law on State Auditor and the restriction set in Article 30 of the Law on State Auditor General to occupy the position of the Auditor General. Members and all those interested on the Saeima's website have access to information about the professional qualifications of the candidates... submitted to the Saeima for their nominations... which can be consulted in depth. The Legal Commission evaluated the candidates, listened to their vision of the work of the State Audit Office and found that all candidates for the position of the Auditor General submitted to the Saeima meet the requirements of the Auditor General established by the Law on the State Auditor General and they are led for consideration in the Saeima. I would also like to inform you that the Legal Commission supported, by a majority of the Members present, the promotion by the Saeima of this draft decision of the Saeima on the appointment of the Auditor General. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U37	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Inese Ixten.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U38	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I will talk about the nominated candidate, Roland Irki. It is a real pleasure for me to speak today about the candidate for the office of the Auditor General, because I can no doubt say only the best of both professional and human. Rolands Irklis is a high-level manager and professional who has successfully led the Public Service Regulatory Commission for the last five years and has represented the organisation at international level, as well as having been a member of the Board of Regulators for five more years. Under his leadership, the successful opening of the natural gas market has been ensured and the development of the electricity market has been facilitated by ensuring competitive energy prices for Latvian consumers. The reforms that have been made to the method of setting tariffs have contributed to a large reduction in the costs and permitted profits of monopolies by making belts for large monopoly companies rather than for consumers. Rolands Irklis is a recognised leader not only in Latvia, but also on a European scale. His professional development and quality have also been respected and assessed by the leading institutions of the European Union regulator, and Mr Irke is the Vice-President of the Board of Regulators of the Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators and also the Vice-President of the Council of European Energy Regulators. I am convinced that work experience and skills, leading an independent and collegial institution, will also be useful for the post of Auditor General. In turn, the experience of economic regulation, appropriate education and results-oriented activity will be of great value in the specifics of the work of the State Audit Office, which is largely related to financial and economic efficiency issues. Rolanda Irke's personal energy and development orientation will contribute to the implementation of improvements in the State Audit Office and the Latvian State Administration in general. I call on you to vote in favour of Roland Irke. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U39	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U40	Good morning, colleagues and society! Thank you. Today it is really very important and very important to take a decision on the State Auditor, and this is also due to the fact that the State Audit Office has achieved a very high level in these times in terms of public trust, as well as in the control of the discipline of spending of state funds, efficiency and efficiency. Mrs. Krumina has raised the flag, importance and quality of the State Audit Office at international level. And while working in the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit, at one of the meetings I am familiar with the nominated candidates for the post of Auditor General and their vision of the future development strategy and vision of the State Audit Office. Unfortunately, I must conclude that, when taking this important decision - which will lead the State control over the coming years - perhaps colleagues did not go too far in the priorities and objectives of the possible public control. I can draw one conclusion that, in fact, the State Audit Office should consistently continue the strategy and model of action already launched, both in effective communication with the public, in strict control of the use of state funds, and in a persistent and targeted manner, calling those people and public officials who have committed, possibly, professional crimes, both administratively and in civil and criminal law. And under the leadership of Elita Krumina, the State Audit Office has ensured this by creating a very high level of trust for this institution. I offer you, my fellow Members, very carefully to take a decision and to support those candidates who are already in the control of the State. Personally, I am very influenced by Edgars Korčagins' professionalism, competence, communication skills and also the ability to justify his opinion. I believe that he will ensure, in a targeted and consistent manner, a high level, a way of presenting the State Audit Office, the results achieved and the communication. Unfortunately, I must admit that, in my eyes, Mr Irkle's presentation and the vision of the future of the State Audit Office are very far behind the vision presented by Ilze Greenhoff and Edgars Korčagins. Why? I'll just say one thing. If existing colleagues of the State Audit Office... Korčagins said that the State Audit Office has two roles: dealing with public money and property and activities of audit and... setting the time for carrying out the topics and audits in the professional field, as well as cooperation with the public and public administrations, then, unfortunately, Mr.Irkė sees work on the strategy of the State Audit Office for the next period, internal and external evaluation of the activities of the State Audit Office, measures to promote cooperation with the internal auditors of institutions and selection of two new members of the Council by tender procedure. In my eyes, something positive about the high level of professionalism is probably a sign of the regulatory field, but not of the State Audit Office as a watchdog... use of budgetary resources... This does not appear to be the case for the public interest as a whole. And another important thing. We are in a situation of economic crisis, and the next period will be the period during which European Union funds will be allocated and used. Therefore, it is very important for the State Audit Office to have professional and highly proven people, protecting state resources... spending. In my opinion, political independence for Mr Irkle is questionable and to be appointed during this period of time when cash flow is becoming - I have very serious doubts about impartiality and maintaining this role in this institution. That is why I very much ask you, colleagues, to consider and support the candidacy of Edgars Korčagins for the post of Auditor General. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U41	The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U42	Dear colleagues, I would like to express the Group's position on this matter. Three candidates have been nominated for the post of Auditor General. Two of them are from the State Audit Office, one from the Public Service Regulatory Commission. There is no doubt that all three are top-class professionals and suitable for vacant posts. In the legal commission, we were convinced of this. We want all three to continue working together in one institution as a team, so the group will support Roland Irkli. In any case, the new National Ombudsman wants to wish, as the Eastern wisdom says: one day replaces three of him who can do everything in time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U43	Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U44	Dear colleagues, The purpose of the activities of the State Audit Office is to determine whether the handling of the financial resources and property of a public person is legal, correct, efficient and in accordance with the public interest. Under the leadership of Elita Krumina, the capacity of the State Audit Office to carry out not only the simplest - financial audits - has increased over the course of eight years, but also to answer questions about usefulness and to provide recommendations to state and local authorities for improvement. Three quarters of institutions appreciate the work of the State Audit Office. At the moment, the State Audit Office is visible and heard in society, it is highly appreciated in the field of international cooperation, however, within the state there is still a criticism of non-deepness in the field, which is being audited, and the typical form of intimidation of officials – it cannot be done because it will be said by the State Audit Office. Such speeches have been a long time ago, and this has not ended today. This hinders the prestige of the State Audit Office and prevents the implementation of recommendations of the State Audit Office. When choosing candidates for the post “Development/About!” We were aware that the State Audit Office is a well-managed institution with strong council and council members have already entered into and understood the specifics of the work of the State Audit Office, with a remark, unless a candidate was found outside the State Audit Office, whose experience and views would complement the State Audit Office with a corresponding contribution. Being aware of the special role of the State Audit Office among the state authorities specified in the Constitution, we value the candidate from outside with special attention and are happy to announce that we offer to the evaluation of the parliamentary colleagues a candidate who has 10 years of experience in another independent institution - the regulator - and who has successful experience in managing change. Yes, Rolands Irkis has been a member of a political party when he joined the party Civil Union, which later became part of the party's Unity, but for the last 10 years or more he has been an inactive member of the party. Our position is that membership in political parties cannot become an obstacle to professional appointments, with the addition that a candidate can demonstrate his independence and professionalism. Development/About! All three candidates who will be voted on today by the Saeima have been carefully heard. Both existing members of the Council of the State Audit Office - Ilze Grinhof and Edgars Korčagins - were strong and relevant candidates with positive ideas. We very much hope that they will be able to offer a strong colleague's shoulders and team to Roland Irklim if he is elected, making the State Audit Office ever stronger, increasingly focused on common national objectives and their achievement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U45	The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U46	Hello, everyone here! At the meeting of 12 January 2021, the Public Expenditure and Audit Committee of the Saeima heard all three candidates for the position of Auditor General who presented their vision for future activities of the State Audit Office. All candidates were recognised as good professionals in their field, as well as candidates were similar to the vision of future activities of the State Audit Office: to build closer cooperation with the state administration, to create more flexibility in the form of audit, to continue international cooperation. However, during the meeting of the Public Expenditure and Audit Committee it was stressed that the State Auditors would need professional experience in the activities of the State Audit Office, given that the term of office of the Auditor General is too short for the new Auditor General to be devoted part of this time to the integration process at a time when the State Auditor, having regard to succession, could continue the pace of work by introducing innovations and improving performance in accordance with the strategy and objectives set by the new Auditor General. Taking into account that in the long term the Public Expenditure and Audit Committee has worked closely with the State Audit Office and the Commission has developed an idea of the functioning of the State Audit Office, I, as chairman of the Commission and member of the Saeima, believe that the capacity of the State Audit Office can be further built and could best be performed by a professional who has already gained experience in the activities of the State Audit Office. A member of the Council of the State Audit Office Edgars Korčagins, who has already proved himself as a knowledgeable, energetic, responsive, with a broad view, innovation-oriented and a professional capable of presenting the State Audit Office. As a positive point in favour of Edgars Korčagins, I would like to point out that in his presentation he drew attention to the revitalisation of the function of development of public administration as one of the priorities of the necessity of prevention of preventive problems and risks in the cooperation between institutions, which until now has been, in a certain sense, a bounty of the State Audit Office. While trying to stick strictly to the analysis of the results of the audit and the consequences of violations found in the form of recommendations or measures of penalties, this function could fundamentally reduce the number of possible violations in the institutions being audited, before the examination process was initiated, at the same time reducing the workload of the State Audit Office and creating a model of cooperation-oriented and not authoritarian relations with the State Administration. Dear colleagues, I, too, personally... I would like to draw your attention and call for the support of Edgar Korchagin as the State Auditor. Thank you, a successful vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U47	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U48	Yes, colleagues! This draft decision. First of all, in my opinion, there have also been discussions in the past about whether there is a need for any new cold in the State Audit Office or whether there is a need to ensure continuity. Although I have been in other thoughts, it is this factor of succession that I think has played a very important role in the fact that we consider the State Audit Office to be such a State Audit Office today, as well as here many... In principle, everyone who took part in the debate in the past has mentioned that it is a high-level body of competence and indeed a high level of prestige. As far as the state control should be in the future is concerned, I think, of course, that it should keep its current course. Although officials often say: “We do this because the State Audit Office has said so... “ It’s... The stronger the State Audit Office, the stronger the personalities and with a greater understanding of the audit work lead this organization... that institution. And I think it's only good for the public administration. So far, this has been the case and, in my view, also taking note of the strategies proposed by all three candidates, it is absolutely... I am convinced that two of the candidates who have previously worked under the State Audit Office and each of them has proved themselves to be a high-level professional, having really mastered their field, have also highlighted future visions of what I think the State Audit Office should be. At the same time, Mr. Irke... In any case, however, it was a view from the edge and Mr. Irke would take time to understand in general how and how the work of the State Audit Office is organized and what is the State Audit Office in general. As a very good specialist, I think he'd fit in any other place. In many places he would be very useful, but not under the control of the State. Let me explain why. In my opinion, however, quite a big and important thing is political neutrality. And political neutrality in this case - well, it is an issue that does not withstand criticism. In my opinion, the State Audit Office is one of the rare institutions in the country, where it is precisely this issue that needs to be evaluated most critically. It is also looking at the State Auditor General internationally. This is one of those main arguments why I do not see an opportunity, however, to support him in this post, not to mention that he is from the edge, and there are two very strong candidates coming from the very inside of the State Audit Office. Of course, I would not like to mention what might happen in one case or another, but a politically affected person with political luggage behind the back may find himself in a situation where we will receive very loud political statements from the State Audit Office and very much will be silenced by the State Audit Office, as was the case at the time when the State Audit Office was with political ties. In my opinion, this is not where the Saeima should come back at the moment. It should be supported its approach that the State Audit Office ensures continuity of activity and we chose someone who could take further management from inside, thus preserving, without undermining the reputation of the State Audit Office and preserving the working style of the State Audit Office. I would urge all to find ways to listen to the State Audit Office, to hear the State Audit Office, to reduce disputes, to understand why the audit of one or the other has ended with some conclusions. Maybe what's happening today... In my opinion, we are all faced with an attempt to put a political national controller in front of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U49	Thank you. Colleagues, we will continue the debate after a break. Time for notification. Dear colleagues, this Monday's half-party anniversary was celebrated by our colleague Dina Meistere, Head of the Legal Bureau, and we congratulate him. (Applause) There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U50	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - draft decision on the appointment of the Auditor General. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Mr Dombrovskis has not yet connected to the system. Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U51	Hello, dear colleagues! Former Members... Some of the colleagues who spoke raised some reflections. In fact, a similar situation is beginning to reoccur when we tried to choose a candidate for the position of a judge of the Constitutional Court, because it is already, in fact, clear that the two members of our liberal parties are heading... The Irks can also be supported by the Irks candidacy. This is a source of such thought. But I want to speak now as a Member representing the Legal Commission. Of course, all three candidates gave their presentation, their view, but questions were asked to draw such a full conclusion. I also asked questions to each of these candidates. I then asked the first candidate - Ilze Greenhof - that two parties, at least two parties, had tried to anticipate in their pre-election promises that there would be a reduction in the number of officials, the number of ministries, the number of institutions, because we see that there is indeed an inadequate number of officials at present, the number of people working. This problem should be addressed, and I ask whether the new Head of State, if any, of the State Audit Office, such as Ilze Greenhof, could not take this question... also in its work and at least develop certain guidelines. Unfortunately, I did not hear a positive answer. Then the next candidate was Edgars Korčagins. I asked him the question about our planning documents, the National Development Plan... The fact that the concrete measures and activities contained in the National Development Plan often remain, unfortunately, on paper, but that national and European structural funds are often mistreated. We know many such loud things about entrepreneurs, including when millions and so on disappear. Should the State Audit Office strengthen these issues in the future to see, analyse and ensure that the planning documents are successfully implemented? Yes, Mr. Korchagin accepted this and drew attention to... in the future. Go on. I asked Roland Irkley about the fact that there is this rather large difference in development between the regions, poverty among the population. Well, there must not be such a big difference in development, in the development of the standard of living in our small country. I heard such general answers. What is the conclusion? I believe that these two candidates, who come from the current State Audit Office system, are specialists... However, they have an advantage. I would urge you to vote in favour of one of them, however. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U52	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U53	Hello! Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues,
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U54	Mr Tawar, is it possible to adjust the sound so that we can hear you better?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U55	Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U56	Still quite weak.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U57	Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U58	We hear it, but we could better. Or speak louder, try louder.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U59	Do you hear me, Madam President?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U60	Let's hear it, yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U61	Hello, honourable colleagues! In the Group of the Greens/Earthers Union, we also listened to all the candidates for the office of the Auditor General, who were familiar with their vision. And one thing we actually do (not heard.) ... from the candidates is this political neutrality, because, as we know, one of the most important functions of the State Audit Office is the audit of efficiency. The audit of utility often also reviews political decisions made by either... actually accepted by politicians. And if the Chief Auditor of the State has political affiliation (he represents the Prime Minister party in this case), will it really be objective... Even theoretically, can there be political neutrality? This is a very important issue if we look at the State Audit Office. We have seen in the previous State Audit Office's activities, we have encountered the fact that the State Audit Office, according to the same principles, audits the implementation of political decisions... In fact, these projects or areas of activity are being monitored either by power parties or by opposition parties. We have discussed whether the audit mechanisms, the principles according to which the State Audit Office works and the criteria according to which the audits are carried out by capital companies or municipalities. We are not in contact with him (not heard.) ... in fact, perhaps as much political order as could be treated, so we really have legitimate concerns about Mr Irkley's candidacy. As previous colleagues have said, it is imperative that the National Ombudsman is politically neutral. We have just seen an example in Estonia, where the government even resigned on suspicion grounds. Nothing has yet been proven, but there is suspicion, and in order not to suspect the entire country, the Prime Minister resigned in Estonia. In this case, we have that wording... approve one of the candidates for the position of Auditor General, who is a member of the Prime Minister's party. The State Audit Office oversees these political decisions, performance audits are one of the main tasks for the State Audit Office. Will these decisions be objective - we really have legitimate concerns, given the political affiliation of one of the candidates. That's why the Union of Greens/Farmers... we have long, widely discussed, and we support Edgars Korčagins, his past experience. Several of our colleagues also welcomed Ilze Greenhoff's vision. It is very important for us that the State Audit Office preserves its political neutrality, as objective and practical as possible, evaluate more accurately all of its audited objects, regardless of who is responsible for this particular object or what is political power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U62	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U63	Dear colleagues, We have seen that all three candidates are high-level professionals. And I would like to thank each of them once again for their time and vision of the development of the State Audit Office. At the same time, I would like to reject all the protagonists for having some past participation in a political party - that this should be an obstacle to their professional career and growth. I, colleagues... I invite you to think about the consequences of such thinking and practice. This will inevitably lead to no professional opting to join political parties. And in political parties, there will be few such professionals if we take decisions in this way, if we set obstacles to former members of political parties... political careers. I therefore call on my fellow Members to think very seriously and do not go on this path. We had a very... As I said, all three candidates are high-level professionals, each with its own, or perhaps different vision of the future development of the State Audit Office, development strategy, and its choice was very difficult for us. However, by carefully weighing everyone for and against, we have decided in favour of Roland Irkley. The main reason for this is that we believe that Mr Irkla will bring a fresh vision and a new vision in the functioning of the State Audit Office. We believe that, overall, we should encourage the rotation of such highly professional officials in the senior positions of public administration. We believe that both the State Audit Office and the entire public administration could benefit greatly from this. I also wanted to say personally that... I believe that both Ilzi Greenhof and Edgars Korčagins will certainly look forward to a big and very perspective in public administration and not only, and I am also convinced that their cooperation with the National Ombudsman - a young person - will only contribute to their personal growth and careers. Thank you for your attention, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U64	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U65	Hello, colleagues! During the meeting of the Legal Commission, we heard all the applicants for the position of Auditor General. A total of three applicants have been nominated, each of whom are professionals in their field. Undoubtedly, two applicants are strong in audit and state control issues, and this was demonstrated by the ability to answer questions qualitatively, as well as the good results of work in the State Audit Office, which were often unpleasant for someone and made it necessary to correct errors or prevent bad management practices. One applicant, on the other hand, showed knowledge and vision from a different perspective. Undoubtedly, it is good that the candidate has his own point of view. At the same time, hearing colleagues about the fact that the State Audit Office has worked well, which I have no doubt about too... The team must continue to work in the same spirit. However, it is not clear to me why the assessment of the work of the existing Auditor-General is being called into question and such distrust is being expressed. I would remind you that the Auditor General has indicated that a political candidate in the State Audit Office has no place - whether it was a former politician or an existing one - because in both cases it will affect the quality of the work of the State Audit Office, making it worse. There is no doubt that all three candidates are strong in their area and that it should remain - everyone should work in the area where it is strong. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U66	Name to Member Juris Jušas.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U67	Hello, colleagues! We have heard very many welcome words here today, in the debate on the candidates for the post of Auditor of State, about the professionalism actually achieved by the State Audit Office over the last ten years and we have also appreciated the work of the existing Auditor of State, Mrs Elita Krūmiņa. What seems very strange to me at the moment is that certain colleagues, calling for the vote and the election of this really very important position, Mr Irkley, are now in my view a great contradiction. What I don't understand is why an institution that works very well and this professional level has been achieved such that its work is appreciated not only by Latvian citizens, but also internationally by the State Audit Office as being very, very good... In this situation, it is inconceivable why it should be, as you say, to change horses and put another candidate on the edge. This, of course, does not hesitate to think that there are any hidden goals, which unfortunately do not exist to me or to a large extent in Latvian society at present. What concerns me personally, and also the New Conservative Group, is that the State Audit Office must retain the status of professional and politically neutral institution, but at the moment we see it being torpedoed. As colleagues have already mentioned, therefore, all candidates were heard by the Legal Commission, the Public Expenditure and Audit Commission, as well as in the meeting of the Young Conservative Group we listened to all three candidates for the post of Auditor General, and it is obvious that the current heads of the State Audit Office were superior both in terms of understanding and visions... clear visions, as the institution should develop in the future, of the primacy of a candidate who is on the edge. I would like to say here that Ilze Greenhof's candidacy was the best, most professional, and I would like to point out that her last... last audit... What the... This week, the public was announced in connection with the implementation of the judicial audit, which involved the highest-ranking experts with the involvement of OECD partners, specialists... A great result has been achieved. What we would like to see as a political group is that the work that has begun will continue so that this institution is not made a political instrument. Just as I think it is quite clear that all Members understand that in such an institution too... In his role as an independent institution for preventing and combating corruption, the head should not be allowed to be a member of a political party like Mr Irkley at the moment, which he has also approved when he was heard and asked whether he was apostolic or a member of one or the other political organisation. So now we have cause for concern. What we want is that professionals continue to work... and the best of the candidates. That is also our position as young Conservatives - always to raise apostolic professionals in important national positions. For my part, I would therefore call on my fellow Members to be as responsible as possible and to vote in favour of an apolitic professional, and that would be Ilze Greenhof. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U68	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U69	Colleagues! In this debate, I would like to respond to my opposition colleague Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Here I am not in any way for people who are members of a political party to hold high positions... I am not opposed to it, but there are some categories of posts where it would be completely excluded. In this case, if we speak the same thing as Mr. Jušas said, - the head of KNAB or the Prosecutor General, or judges of the Supreme Court, or any other kind of high officials... Even the public service regulator - even in this place at management level, it should be assessed whether the presence of such a person (with political affiliation) is correct or not. However, this case with regard to the State Audit Office is exceptional. In the Commission on Public Expenditure and Audit, when he asked Mr Irke about his political affiliation, Mr Irke replied that he was not an active member, and this was also pointed out in the debate today on Development/Par! representatives. However, it is important to note that I have not heard at any time that Mr Irkle would be prepared to write an application to leave the political party. The State Audit Office is the place where the fact that you are part of a political party already casts doubt on the shadow of any audit that this person will carry out in the future. This, in my opinion, will cast a shadow of doubt over all the work of the State Audit Office at both international and local level, and I place particular emphasis on the word “international”. We have not heard any of Mr Irkle's determination that he could leave the political party. At the moment, the Prime Minister's party is appointing its representative as the Auditor General. Colleagues, there must be some kind of separation of power. This is a very scandalous case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U70	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U71	Hello, colleagues! First of all, I must say that the members of the Saeima of the future party "Law and Order" will vote in favour of Mr Korchagin. But I wanted to inform you. I think the discussion is about whether people starting up to positions - or conceptual discussion - can or should not be in politics... have been or are and like... In fact, the argument that we are hearing here is that it is possible for non-professionals to go in politics, that those who do not understand anything can go in politics, because professionals are those who need to be appointed. And if you've been in politics, it's clear that you can't be in no position. So such action is, of course, illogical in itself, it really turns the smartest into reality, and it is the whole problem of Latvian state policy, that really high level professionals both from private business and from any other sphere of politics, because it makes their future career, life and so on. This matter needs to be changed. People must be allowed to be politically active, and, being politically active, people must also be allowed to pursue various career opportunities. The question is, of course, another... big, or Mr. Irkley, at the moment he is approved for that position... There are separate posts like the President of Latvia, the Prime Minister - no, but the President of Latvia - yes, as well as the Auditor General... there are certain positions that at the time you are approved, you have to put a party's card down. This is logical and understandable. But until you're confirmed, I think that if it's a fan of New Unity... being a member of the New Unity Party, we have to say honestly, whether it is the system that we are addressing smart people who want to come into politics or who are in politics, whether they are our allies or competitors, is wrong at the very root. We are turning the smartest people away from politics, and then we are getting the parliament we have. So for the future, I think this issue needs to be regulated. Mr Irkle is not suitable for the position at present, precisely because he has not shown his willingness to put his party card on the table. And it's maybe a little lack of understanding of what kind of positions people are in... people should or should not be in a party, but the argument must in no way be that man has been in a political party until now. At least I think so. I call on all Latvian professionals to remain politically active, to join political parties, and I think that in the future we should not have this system in the parties that the parties can only be, I don't know, low-educated people who are not professionals... We will urgently need to change this order in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U72	The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U73	Yes, thank you, colleagues. I would like to ask both colleagues in the Saeima and the public to draw attention to a very important detail, which I have also drawn attention to in previous speeches. The European Union Recovery Fund provided Latvia with a very significant amount of funding - EUR 10 billion - which can be measured over the period 2021-2027. The re-allocation and management of these funds will be provided by the relevant departments. And I think that the existing restaurant and person who is active and provides this process are the Ministry of Finance and, in particular, Mr Dalder, as financial adviser to the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister. As a result, moving today to such an important position as the Auditor General, which ensures control over the relevant departments - public administrations, the use of their activities and financial resources - is essential not to allow the position to be held by a person who may be politically influential and who may not be sufficiently independent when making decisions. It is very, very important to ensure that 10 billion financial resources in the Recovery Fund are spent in a transparent, efficient and forward-looking way. It is unacceptable for one political power to focus all control - and not only on allocation and management, but also on control of its use. I see very significant risks and very significant risks here as well as the State Audit Offices as such institutions that are independent, effective, professional and politically neutral, in future development and in the eyes of prestigious society and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U74	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U75	Dear colleagues, There is already a debate here, perhaps not so much about specific candidates, but about quite conceptual issues. That must, of course, be said. If we are talking about professionals in politics, I call on all my colleagues, including Mr Valaiņš, to ask myself two questions. Question number one. Do you think that professionals should actually close the way in politics, or create a system where every future professional will understand that membership in political parties and political processes will create obstacles for him to professional growth, so that he... will it disqualify him from being eligible for any post? Then the result will be exactly what I said and what my colleague, Mr Gobzem, has also pointed out, that it will be the degradation and debilitation of our political system, in which professionals will simply choose... Well, in no way, do not give God, do not participate in political parties... Within the policy framework, as this will create problems for their further professional growth. That is the question of number one: do you think it is right or not? Question number two. Do you think... Do you support the principle of rotation of senior officials in the Latvian public administration? Do you think that if a person, an official, starts working in a particular ministry or under State control or in another institution, then, in principle, he should also stay there? If I remember correctly, the same Members of the New Conservative Party sometimes stand up for this rotation. Therefore, depending on the answers to these questions - do you also have an answer to this? I would remind my colleagues that we also had Presidents of State from some specific political parties. Right, colleagues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U76	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U77	Hello, colleagues! Every time there is a debate here, in the Saeima, on a high-ranking official that we have to choose whether or not to elect, I think that many of you, like me, feel that there is a lack of something essential in this debate. That is, in this debate, we get together in such a way that we seem to be talking about those Members in the back-to-back... for those people we are going to vote on. I think one important thing should be done. When debates are held about such officials as the Auditor General or the Chairman of the Regulator, or the Chairman of the Bank of Latvia, amendments should be made to the parliamentary order roll for the fact that these candidates can come to the tribunal and express their views. And it would be possible for us all and for society to listen to them what they promise society what they promise us what they will do when they get such an opportunity to work in that or another position. That would be two valuable things. First, then, objectively, we would hear what this particular person is willing to do, and we would appreciate his words, not that they refer to what they have heard. It would be to some extent like a social contract that would have been made with this person, with his promises, and perhaps on the basis of... By following these promises, we could further decide whether or not he is eligible for this post and, if necessary, send such a person to the place from which he came instead of allowing him to carry out that post. That's one thing. The other thing. Talking about the concerns that are now being expressed... said we could lead a politically engaged person. I would like to assure you that... It is obvious that, as a party to the opposition, the "congregation" is of the least interest and, in fact, it would be the most... not be interested in having someone in this position who would be engaged in the work of a power party... in the interest of political parties. In my opinion, we will be able to test this speculation very quickly. To a large extent, those who have expressed concerns about possible political injuring - please, even the same Commission on Public Expenditure and Audit. You will be able to dialogue with this new... possibly the new Head of State Audit Office and agree on tasks, the agenda that should be carried out, or ask direct questions why this or other task is not carried out. One of the things... A couple of things with which this new... Perhaps the new Head of State Audit Office could confirm his political neutrality, is a competent assessment of existing municipality procurements and what has happened to energy cases, about the same legendary OIC. I think it could clearly dispel any concerns about whether there is political injuring or not. Personally, I will also give my vote today in favour of Roland Irki, because I know what the work in the regulator means. I know what it's like to lead the regulator. I've had to do it myself. And it has been very difficult to do so when we have to make very responsible decisions and when, because of the indecision of politicians, the Board of Regulators had to work in part (of the five people only had three left) and all these difficult decisions have to be made by agreement between all the members of the Board, so unanimously. I see that there are very many similar principles here, and I think that in this situation, when we have received not a specific message, a concrete heritage from the State Audit Office, there is one person who really would like to see this control, but two, because really wants to keep this healthy competition and the opportunity for these two people to grow further... because no one is talking about the fact that these people, who have been nominated from the State Audit Office... that they should cease their professional activities, on the contrary - they will stay there and with their competence they will be able to strengthen further growth of the State Audit Office. I think the side view - and the side view of a really competent person - would be useful here. That is why we, WELCOME, will give our ride to Mr Irke to prove what he has promised to do, namely to be politically neutral, to make the State Audit Office even more powerful, even more powerful. Good luck to him! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U78	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U79	Mr Zarins has probably missed the fact that I have put forward a proposal that allows both such candidates to take the floor in the debate and then to report on their work. It was rejected by the coalition, by the way. That's the number one. Number two. I would like to agree with my colleague, Lubova Šveivov, who clearly and clearly pointed to the risks that exist in today's circumstances, that it will be necessary to monitor the use of the billions for which perhaps some advisory councils, power and relevant politicians from a particular political party receive from one particular candidate. Thus, there is a conflict of interest there, but the fact is that people should not be in political parties if they are professionals of a high level would, of course, not hold back criticism if we were talking about the future. In today's circumstances, we need an effective State Audit Office, which has already entered into force, and if we already compliment the State Audit Office, that it is working well, I think we must allow those who (not hearable) to take the lead. ... have been active and can start working from the first day without the warm-up period under supervision in Latvia, with so many uneconomic expenses... There is a very big job, a very big job, and we cannot delay this job at a time when many people in Latvia are in poverty... that work on the disability check is not carried out immediately on the first day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U80	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U81	Reflecting on the debate, Mr Gobzem, I don't know if you... Obviously you have not noticed that I have also tabled such proposals and they are now... as I understand, until the Saeima has come back to see them. It is precisely what I also proposed that responsible officials should be given the opportunity and duty to come here in the Saeima, and to report to us all and to the Latvian public on how they see the future performance of their duties. That's one thing. The other thing. Reflecting on this debate, which I hear today, on how sterile, it is the wish that officials should be politically neutral. Colleagues, all of you who are talking about this today will soon have the opportunity to demonstrate this attitude. New members will soon have to be elected to the Board of Regulators. And I very much hope that you will approach exactly on the same principle and also with regard to the next supervisor of the regulator, you will approach on the same principle as you call here to respect others when it comes to State control. For my part, that is all right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U82	The name to Member Juris Jušas for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U83	Welcome again, colleagues. The wish at the moment not to allow the actual work of the existing State Audit Office team - one of the two candidates for the post - is, in my opinion, related precisely to the fact that this team, in recent years in particular, has worked very well. It is precisely that the work has been done in a highly professional manner that at present makes certain political parties think that some adjustments need to be introduced. And that, in my view, is very dangerous. I therefore call once again on my colleagues to vote responsibly and to enable this well-started work to continue with one of the candidates currently working in the State Audit Office. In particular, I would like to highlight the work done by Mrs Ilze Greenhof and therefore to vote in favour of this candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U84	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U85	On behalf of the Commission, thank you, colleagues, for the debate and call on the Saeima to support this decision of the Legal Commission (No. 537/ Lm13).
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-14-PT13-2181-U86	All right, let's go to the vote. Colleagues, I recall that the voting time for each round of votes is one minute. Please activate the first round of votes with voting marks. So it's activated. Please call me! We will vote for the Auditor General! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Honourable colleagues, so 98 electoral marks have been voted for in the first round of the State Auditor, 1 deleted, 95 invalid, 1 invalid, not put to the vote, 2 against all candidates. So results: Ilze Greenhof--"for"--17, "for"---78; Edgars Korchagin--"for"--25, "for"--70; Rolands Irklis--"for"--53, "for"--42. So the Auditor General Rolands Irkis has been elected. Congratulations to the Auditor General Roland Irki! The agenda for the second remote emergency session of 14 January is therefore examined by the honourable Members. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. I'm closing the sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, in 15 minutes' time, we will start the third remote emergency sitting. So at 12.00 - the third remote emergency sitting.
