ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U1	Good morning, honourable Members and honourable Members! The agenda of the first remote extraordinary sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 11 February 2021 is open. On the agenda - reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Cabinet of Ministers has submitted the draft law “On the Treaty of the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Institution of the European Regulators for Electronic Communications Supporting the Headquarters of the Agency”. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the draft law be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission and that it be designated as the commission responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Cabinet of Ministers has submitted the draft law ‘Amendments to the Immigration Law’. The Saeima Bureau proposes to refer the draft law to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption and to make it a commission responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Cabinet of Ministers has submitted the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia”. The Saeima Bureau proposes to refer the draft law to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption and to make it a commission responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Consequently, the draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Cabinet of Ministers has submitted a draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of State Officials”. The Saeima Bureau proposes to hand it over to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government and to establish that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Cabinet of Ministers has submitted a draft law “Amendments to the Law on Safety of Hydrotechnical Constructions of Hydroelectric Power Plants”. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that it be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy and that it be designated as the Commission responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Cabinet of Ministers has submitted the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the draft law be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and that it be designated as the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Cabinet of Ministers has submitted the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Judicial Executives”. The Saeima Bureau proposes to refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Judicial Executives” to the Legal Commission and to establish that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Cabinet of Ministers has submitted the draft law “Amendments to the Notary Law”. The Saeima Bureau proposes to refer the draft law “Amendments to the Notary Law” to the Legal Commission and to establish that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Cabinet of Ministers has submitted the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Election Aggregation”. The Saeima Bureau proposes to refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Election Aggregation” to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government and to establish that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item is "On own-initiative proposals submitted". The draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 155 Latvian citizens’ collective application “School co-financing also for parents””. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications has submitted its own proposal – the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 155 Latvian citizens “Co-financing Children Also Parents””. If a Member objects to the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this sitting, please apply. Please enable a section on the procedure. No one has objected to this sitting. Thus, there is no objection to Members. Let's start by examining the submitted draft decision of the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications – Member Linda Medne. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U2	Good morning, very honourable head of the Saeima sitting! Highly honored colleagues and those present! On January 6, 2021, the Saeima received a collective application from 10 155 Latvian citizens “The Children’s Co-financing for Parents” asking to allow parents to stay with their children for longer while the child is waiting in line with the municipal garden. On 3 February this year, the Parliament’s Mandate, Ethics and Application Commission heard a representative of the initiative applicants who indicated that the range of support measures currently available for young parents is not sufficient due to a lack of kindergartens... the lack of kindergartens, the inability to pay for minor services or the frequent illness of children, which prevents parents from returning to work. At present, there are no appropriate types of support measures available for young parents, which should be complemented by support for education in private educational establishments and support for the use of early childhood services, with the possibility to receive financial support for parents whose children remain at home. In the opinion of the representative, the funding in these cases should be equivalent to the funding received by parents who use malleable services. The Commission also heard the head of the Platform for Expert Cooperation on Demographic Affairs, which expressed its support for the initiative and its further development. The Commission unanimously decided to refer this initiative of Latvian citizens to the Saeima’ Social and Labour Commission for consideration and evaluation, as well as to designate the Saeima’s Education, Culture and Science Commission as the co-responsible Commission. The Commission asks to support the preparation of the Saeima’s draft decision on the future of the 10 155 Latvian citizens’ collective application “Co-financing Children Also Parents””. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U3	Thank you. It is not enough for Members to debate. We will vote on the draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 155th Latvian citizens’ collective application “Co-financing Children Also Parents””. Please vote mode! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Decision adopted. The next item is the draft decision “On the way forward of the 11 525 collective application “On a Celebration Without a Celebration”. This own-initiative proposal – the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 11 525 Latvian citizens “On a Celebration Without a Celebration”” – has been submitted by the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications. If a Member objects to the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this sitting, please apply. Please enable the procedure mode. Nobody's signed up. There is no objection by Members. We will therefore begin to examine the proposed draft decision of the Saeima. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U4	Good morning, honourable fellow Members. On 4 January this year, the Saeima received a collective application from 11 525 Latvian citizens “For a holiday without a wet”. On 3 February this year, the Board of executives, ethics and applications of the Saeima heard representatives of the initiative and experts from the industry. The authors of the collective application call for a ban on spending money on the fire-fighting of state and local government budgets... for the financing of fireworks, they indicate the waste of money and the negative impact on the environment. The representatives of the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Association of Independent Pyrotechnicians objected to such a ban and pointed out that by prohibiting professional fireworks, risks are not eliminated, but – on the contrary – are increasing as the use of non-controlled large-scale fireworks increases. Members of the Commission expressed the view that the issue should be addressed in a broader context. Stronger regulation may be needed to prevent non-professional fireworks. Having evaluated all information, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application at its meeting on 3 February of this year decided to submit a collective application to the Education, Culture and Science Commission of 11 525 Latvian citizens “On a Celebration Without a Celebration” for further evaluation. Please support the prepared draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U5	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the 11 525 collective application “For a Celebration Without a Celebration””! Please vote mode! For - 81, for - 1, for - 2. Decision adopted. The next section of the agenda entitled ‘On the own-initiative proposals submitted’ is an own-initiative proposal submitted by Members Viktoras Valaiņa, Gundars Dūkes, Ulda Augulis, Janis Dūklavs, Janina Jalinska, Māra Kučinska, Edgars Tatars, Armanda Krauze, Raimonds Bergmanis and Jānis Vacāns – draft decision to ask the Public Prosecutor’s Office to carry out a verification of possible violations of the law by taking a decision to refuse the delivery of higher doses of ‘Bionnech’ and ‘Pfizer’ vaccines. Before we start the debate - does the first signatory, Mr Valaiņa, want to speak on behalf of the speakers? ( Interface: “Those who have no objection... ‘) So we must first of all examine whether a Member has objections to the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this sitting. Please enable this mode. And please apply. So, Commissioner Golubeva objected. We must therefore decide on the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the Saeima's next sitting. And one Member can talk about this and one Member against. Mrs Golubeva, are you going to talk about or against?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U6	‘Pret’.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U7	The name of Member Maria Golubeva - 'no'. Please! The question is to place an own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the Saeima's next sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U8	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that recently, on 13 January, the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavlut, has started a service test. This was done by a commission of representatives not only from the Ministry of Health, but also from the Ministry of Justice and the State Chancellery, and the whole process that took place in November with regard to vaccines was discussed. It was concluded that officials were likely to have violated the principles of good governance, but no unlawful acts had taken place. At the moment, the Minister has moved this process forward within the Ministry, and there is quite a lot of activity going on, so that the officials responsible for this process are aware of their responsibilities and that in future political action on this issue is decisive, operational. We do not believe that it is necessary to raise this issue at the moment, given that KNAB has also started a counter-testing exercise.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U9	Member Viktors Valainis has applied for a par. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U10	Hello, high-ranking head of the sitting! Colleagues! This question. In my opinion, not to look at this issue today - it is just a delay. And it won't be the first time we've got this question... in a way... Let's go (first of all - Prime Minister!) draw attention to the fact that more than just a simple internal investigation is needed here, because what I think these violations have happened is outside the ministry. Outside the ministry! And no one has at any time appreciated the involvement of politicians, the involvement of various political consultants. No single article in public space, on various portals and in written... in magazines, at least I think now... As a result of internal investigations... To mention that the Secretary of State and another official have done something wrong... in this case, I think that there is such a very high level of confusion among the public. Our colleague - Ivars Zarins - came to the Saeima a few weeks ago with a request... questions about facial masks, and we... from opposition colleagues... this we have particularly updated - that buys simple rags, spends millions of them, and no one really takes responsibility for them. At the same time, the most dubious business chains... And, of course, comes to the political sponsors... links... all these questions. In this case, this is a striking illustration of the fact that only after the Foreign Minister in some way intervenes, after other Baltic ministers simply do not understand what is happening in Latvia, how one can refuse such doses of vaccines - then something is beginning to happen. And then the question is: what happens then, how do we get to these decisions, and what exactly has been the political position on these issues? Because, in my opinion, it's so high... great inactivity, resulting in very many people die in Latvia at the moment quite simply. We have a tragedy every day. Every day. And to a large extent it is based on that... the fact that it's just that... Development/About! I think with which direct link... Now there's the greatest shadow of suspicion... to the fact that there has been a lot of... lobbying of certain interests... Now... takes the floor today at the Saeima sitting and calls for us not to do so. Colleagues, this decision is not an accusation or an appeal. This decision is... if we read in the draft decision, what the Saeima then decides... The Saeima decides to entrust the... an independent external institution - the prosecutor's office - where... the prosecutors we are all unanimously... practically unanimous... We've all voted as a prosecutor... Then let the prosecutor take it! And if the government does not do so, if the government does not exercise the right granted by the Public Prosecutor's Office law to conduct this kind of investigation... order the prosecutor's office to do this... if the government does not do so, then the Saeima is also entitled to do so. They shall not be a right to one or the other Member. The Saeima shall have the following rights: Therefore, the following draft decision of the Saeima has also been prepared. And the sooner the prosecutor's office starts to work, the sooner the public will, in my opinion, gain clarity that these transactions have been transparent, the decisions have been transparent and no politician has lobbyed anything there. I think it's all... from the very beginning of the pandemic, there has been one great lobbying and great earning of individual parties... close to people; there was absolutely nothing to do with transparency and good governance. And those who are victims are officials of the Ministry of Health, who, unfortunately, had to do all this. And you don't have to try to tell someone here that everything has been... in accordance with the principles of good governance, something has happened here! This is the tragedy that is happening at the moment, and I think that people have to take responsibility for this; it cannot simply remain without the attention of the Saeima Members. This draft decision is intended to provide clarity. Colleagues! I call for it to be examined today and for it to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U11	So one Member has spoken 'yes' and one Member has spoken 'no' to include the draft decision on the agenda of the Saeima's next sitting. Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! About - 28, against - 50, abstaining - 3. Consequently, the draft decision is not on the agenda for the next sitting of the Saeima. Is there a proposal to transfer the relevant own-initiative proposal to one of the commissions? Please enable Mode... on the procedure. Please! Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U12	I'm calling for all the commissions.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U13	Thank you. There are no other proposals. Member Viktors Valainis has made a proposal to hand over the draft decision to all Saeima committees. We must therefore vote in favour of this proposal, the draft decision to ask the Public Prosecutor's Office to carry out a review of possible violations of the law by deciding to refuse to supply a higher dose of BioNTech and Pfizer vaccines to all parliamentary committees. Now, also on the handover, one Member can speak "for" and one can speak "no". Please enable a section on the procedure. Mr Feldman, are you going to talk about or against?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U14	I will say 'no'.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U15	Please! Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman - 'no'.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U16	That's... Well, on the one hand, I am very disappointed that the Saeima's opposition has only now noticed problems that were obvious in relation to the process of purchasing vaccines. In this regard, I have to say that this sitting of the Saeima is a little later... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So, not at night, but... Agenda item: 17, no, Question 16 is specifically the examination of the request in this respect. In this case... That request, also signed by the opposition Members, I understand, has also been examined... and there was a possible investigation into the purchase of vaccine against Covid-19... And then we will listen, and then there will be a debate... And also... we will listen to what the panel has decided in this regard. But when it comes to this hypothetical involvement of the prosecutor's office - well, I think it's such an interesting style - so when someone can't figure out who has to send an application, he sends it to the prosecutor's office. Now I have to remind you here that, on 12 January this year, I personally... together with Juris Jušas, we have already applied to the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau specifically on this issue. In this case, it was a question of the initial matter of buying 97 500 "Pfizer" vaccines, and we have noticed some of the nuances that we are calling on KNAB to explain why such a decision was made... the purchase of such small vaccines. Of course, the situation has evolved since we applied to this application on 12 January. Firstly, the Prime Minister has also spoken in this regard. He had to express himself before us, because he's three times more aware of us, but I don't know, maybe he was afraid or something. We encouraged him. He's also said. Secondly, KNAB has also reported that they are carrying out an inspection. If I remember correctly, a counter-analysis has now been proposed. And this is an institution that is already specific so... an operating authority that can also carry out... where appropriate, to encourage criminal proceedings or, in any case, to consult information, to request information from the responsible authorities. Thirdly, in this context, in view of the fact that it is also true that the new Minister for Health has also addressed this issue and encouraged the examination of the service, and perhaps that is not the case here too... Well, it's not a test that results in some criminal proceedings and, obviously, the punishment that the public would expect - the identification and punishment of the perpetrators... But it is not, of course, the competence of the officials themselves, so we already have our application to KNAB so that it can also be evaluated and this criminal investigation could take place accordingly... hypothetically. Thus, in the context of the present three cases, first, that Feldman and Jurash have already applied to KNAB, second, that KNAB has already initiated an investigation and, thirdly, that even the Ministry has been investigated, there is absolutely no reason to take it here now, to make a show which, of course,... It's the only one that the opposition is capable of, especially Valainis, so make a show, pass on to all commissions... For some one there is Sustainable Development... or, I don't know to whom else the commission has a question of sending any applications to the prosecutor's office... or, for example, the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Public Solidarity, or to whom it is intended to be transferred. Then this proposal is, by its very nature, absurd and rejected. What should I do? and what should the opposition do? They should support the public, public space in all the ways that Feldman and Jurash have already done... and sent this application. They should be supported. Yes, KNAB, you're there to investigate to speed up its things up and it's clear! But you're not doing it, you're doing a show. I call this fool... Dismissed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U17	Thank you. ‘ Ivars Zarins, a member of the Saeima, has applied for the transmission of the draft decision to all parliamentary committees. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U18	Hello, colleagues! Good morning, everybody! Why is it so important, though, to hold your hand on the pulse... on what is happening, because indeed what we are seeing is not a wish to investigate this process. I personally have prepared certain questions relating to the purchase of these vaccines, which were sent to our government, in good time - to provide answers, concrete answers. You can get acquainted with these answers and these questions on the Saeima's website, and you will see clearly that there is a subscription, there is a hiding of these real activities. Very specific questions were asked. Answers to them would be very... to mark the way in which this decision was then taken, because what we see is that it has been a collective irresponsible and that no one is responsible for it. And that's all over. It is also the whole investigation that has been in the past, which shows that this government is not interested in investigating this situation, on the contrary - it is interested in concealing it. How can this be revealed? I have shown this by my questions sent to the government and to which the government has avoided giving concrete answers, because if they provided these concrete answers, it would immediately appear a thread through which we could get to the real order of things, why and how this strange procurement has happened, and whether there has been a lobbying of the interests of a particular business in the hands of a political party or not. Therefore, it is so important to support such a decision, which is now being proposed, that it should be done by the competent authorities, and, unfortunately, in this case, it can be achieved that, most likely, if it were simply a KNAB, there will once again be a decision that there is no evidence that officials... that would have something to do with bribery and the like. From the beginning, it is necessary to clarify the process as it has been. In order to do this, it would really be right to connect the investigating authorities, the Prosecutor General's Office, which would monitor this process and look at it in a broader scope rather than narrowly specific scope in which it should be viewed by KNAB. Therefore, my suspicion that so desperately now is being tried, so that this process does not in any way begin, is that it is precisely those who have taken this decision and who are in the coalition who know, feel and understand that everything is not at the bottom. It is very obvious what has happened to the purchase of the same mask and respirators, where purchases were made following a special procedure that the government invented... what it was not possible to explain itself. Spirators were bought, bypassing the requirements of the law, bypassing, ignoring the fact that there are no real documents, ignoring the fact that the product does not correspond at all to the documents. It then became clear that these respiratory equipments were really not of use and were not of adequate quality. Nothing else has happened. They were bought at a desperately high price for nothing from a businessman, who does not even deal with this business at all, in a procedure that is not provided for by law, with documents that do not correspond at all to the goods. And the same story here (A sound defect.) ... the request, on any question which would demonstrate correctly and demonstrably that this decision was appropriate and necessary, the officials and ministers responsible are unable to respond. This process will also be directed towards the relevant investigating bodies. But from the beginning, we will do our research. It is precisely the same work that needs to be done at this point in time for this vaccine to be purchased. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call on us not to be afraid and allow this process to begin. It is important that the prosecutor's office begins to investigate this all... Under the supervision of the prosecutor's office, an investigation process is taking place, as there may have been competent and concrete answers there. I call on you to support the transfer to the commissions so that the Saeima can hold its hand on the pulse - what is actually happening, because, as we can see, goes after the afer. All the signs indicate this. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U19	One Member has spoken 'for', one Member has spoken 'no' to hand over this draft decision to all parliamentary committees. We must take the decision by voting. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft decision of the Saeima “Tell the Public Prosecutor’s Office to investigate possible violations of the law by taking a decision to refuse the delivery of higher doses of “BonNTech” and “Pfizer” vaccines to all Saeima commissions! Please vote mode! On - 29, against - 52, refraining from - 2. The own-initiative proposal has been rejected. The next item is the own-initiative proposal by Members Aldis Gobzems, Karina Sprūde, Jūlija Stepanenko, Lubova Švecova, Andris Kazinovskis, Didzis Šmits, Viktors Valainis, Evija Papule, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis and Edgars Tavars, “On the task of ensuring continuity of children’s and youth dance and physical activity classes in the Cabinet of Ministers”. First of all, does any Member object to the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this sitting? Please log in! Please enable mode for procedure! There is a Member, Reinis Znotiņš. So Members have reservations and we have to decide to put this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the Saeima's next sitting. One Member may speak about this decision, one Member against. Please log in! Mr. Znotiņš, are you going to talk about it or about it?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U20	I will say 'no'.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U21	Name of Member Reinis Znotiņš against inclusion of the draft decision on the agenda of the Saeima's next sitting. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U22	Good morning, colleagues! So this specific proposal places the task - and therefore the task - on the Cabinet of Ministers to ensure continuity of children's and young people's dance and physical activity classes. What does that mean? In fact, this means that the Cabinet of Ministers should give priority to these groups. So we, the Ministry of Education and Science, are currently fighting - and as you also hear in the public space - for the primary vaccination of educators so that first-class pupils and pre-school pupils can go to school at all. First of all, we should understand what we then have its priorities. Of course, sport (as we supported last time the opposition proposal) and dancing (which has now been tabled) are very important aspects for children to move and so on. However, this cannot be prioritised by the possibility for basic groups to attend educational institutions at all, both for kindergarten pupils and first-class pupils. Here I would call on the opposition to really pay more attention and understand that we need to change the vaccination procedure, because the current vaccination procedure, which has been submitted by the Ministry of Health, provides for the vaccination of 600 thousand other Latvians before pre-school educators, before special education teachers, and thus, in principle, the possibility to visit kindergartens for a very long period of time in general. This can lead to it, because we see that disease in pre-school institutions is growing, and also for young schoolchildren... So grade 1-6 students should not be allowed to go to school. The priority should be given to these groups. We cannot entrust the Cabinet of Ministers with making education of interests more priority over these basic groups - pre-school education and therefore small classes. And it would really be important to understand how the Ministry of Health intends to do this. I call on everyone to support the Ministry of Education and Science in this fight to put educators in the third priority group right behind social home workers and, as in Estonia and Lithuania, where already - at this moment! - start vaccinating teachers, start vaccinating them also in Latvia. Right now, right now, as we collect social home workers. That's very important, and only in this way can we get back to school... So first let's go to kindergarten school, let's go to school... So pick up the educators, and so let go to school in small classes - 1-6. - students, perhaps at some point also in class 12, who must finally pass the exam this year. And then we can certainly also think about athletes. You have to think, well, quite soon. It would also allow these small classes to probably sport, and only after all this, of course, we... We're... There is also this group, which are dancers and other interest education representatives, who are involved in physical activities that are clearly necessary - then we must also catch up with them. So that we can agree with the opposition proposal in this sense, but we cannot prioritise this group before the core groups that I mentioned. Once again, I call for the support of everyone in this fight for the introduction of vaccination procedures and for the change of this absurd procedure that the Ministry of Health has now proposed so that children can return to school very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U23	Thank you. ‘ Mr Aldis Gobzems, a member of the Saeima, has applied for the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the next sitting of the Saeima. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U24	Hello, Latvian people! Hello, teachers! Hello, dance teachers! Hello, sports teachers and everyone else! Hello! I want to start this subject with a little introduction. That's the introduction. All event leaders, dance teachers and sports instructors at home are experiencing depression, just as children are experiencing depression at home. The Ministry of Education and Science and all those entie education departments in the Ministry could at least arrange... Zoom sessions run to log in and pay a piece for each hour passed by by these teachers. Well, at least they could. At the Vāļņu Street House, in the house of the Ministry of Education and Science, there is only Skyforger with a sculptural searcher in the background. Those who follow the brightest shots and concerts of the prosecutor's office, where Šuplinska rests, will understand what I'm talking about. There's nothing else! Empty. It's an absolute void! That is why Mrs Emptyum has also been at all my previous speeches. There are queues at shops or shops... There's hundreds of people standing in line - there's all right, it can be. No children can dance. Sports is not allowed, but in the row minus 20 degrees at the store's bar - forward! It's okay! And then they say something that they will give EUR 500, but they will not give it. It's going to be the whole society, but it's gonna give it to computers as if it's not computers and... And voidness. It's an absolute void! They are against children having activities. Now there's something about vaccines that don't exist. There is a vaccination office, no vaccines. There's something about vaccines. Make at least some remote lessons! Before you were told about this “Your Class”... How did you do that? Put some fellow men back in there... Member's husband... Herd-Grosa's husband was there from the UKP in time or somewhere else. That's all that's going on, just some otkates or something else. Where there's no otkati, there's nothing in there. People have depression. It's getting silly for you. I understand that you like a pure society, because they are probably the only ones who can vote for you, the BIP. Only timid people can vote for you. Wise people certainly cannot vote for you. That's what you're going to. You're not interested in children, the future of children. The whole society, all the omes, the aunts of Mirdza, Sigita and all the rest! You saw once in the BIP. They don't do anything for the people, everything is against... Against you all the time, against you! And just talk about something. ‘ Listen to our words, don’t look at our works” - this is the JPN. Dear people, you haven't understood that yet? How can they even have another 2.5 percent in the rating table? They must be minus 47 for this day. Is there really a further 2.5 per cent of society that is so uneducated that it can vote for the CIP? In other countries, everywhere around - everywhere, everywhere, everywhere! - classes for children. Everywhere! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We will plan in Latvia. Another advice is to make for yourself, some other emptiness advice at the Vāļņu Street House, the Ministry of Education and Science, and the emptiness monitoring advice. You can monitor yourself, your void. You can't figure out anything. Why am I talking so hard? Because Znotiņš from the UKP, he's a parliamentary secretary... The arogance that comes from Znotiņš against Latvian society is simply impossible! There has never been such a huge drop in education as during the course of the UKA, never because they are measured by their own measure. And I hope they will answer for it one day, for it all. I already understand that the coalition will vote 'no' again. As always coalition - where about people, there's 'no' people. All the time – “to”, “to”, “to”. Well, dear coalition, give them 500 euros at least! Well, if you're so... you depend on those EUR 500, at least do not say people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U25	One Member has spoken in favour, one Member has spoken against the inclusion of a draft decision on the agenda of the Saeima's next sitting. The decision must be taken by vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to ensure continuity of children’s and young people’s dance and physical activity classes” on the agenda of the next meeting! Please vote mode! For - 34, for - 51, for - 2. The draft decision is not on the agenda for the next sitting. Is there a proposal to hand over the relevant own-initiative proposal to one of the parliamentary committees? Member Jūlija Stepanenko applied for the procedure in the section. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U26	Yes, honourable colleagues! I am truly surprised by this arrogant attitude by Mr Znotiņš, because, in fact, if we read this draft decision of the Saeima, we would see that it lays down, above all, strict safeguards, it does not prioritise one of the sectors, because we cannot write a draft decision of the Saeima about all sectors at once. This will be quite difficult because specific safety requirements for each sector. Just like sport, the dance teachers, who have now turned to MEPs many times, to government representatives, are still not heard and not supported, because I stress that these teachers are among the teachers to whom the government, 14 October, even before the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima... Before declaring the emergency situation, he was forbidden to work. Dismissed from working without any form of compensation (not to be heard.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U27	Mrs Stepanenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U28	... the draft decision to the Education, Culture and Science Commission. Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U29	Member Krišjānis Feldman has applied. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U30	I wanted to say 'no' to this proposal, not to encourage another commission, if I may.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U31	Thank you, for that later. So, first of all, we are deciding on the possibility of submitting this own-initiative proposal to the parliamentary committees. Ms Stepanenko's proposal to hand it over to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science has been received. No other proposals have been received. So one Member can talk about the transfer to the Education, Culture and Science Commission and one Member can speak against. Member Krišjānis Feldman has applied to speak against. Please, Mr. Feldman, you have a name.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U32	I hope everyone listened to what R. Znotiņš, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, said. At the moment, this is very important - never to divide preschool educators and teachers of the smallest classes... also primary schools, as well as special schools teachers. And I call on everyone (and this call concerns both the opposition and the coalition) to support the Ministry of Education and Science's fight for this teacher... in general, educational staff... vaccination and return to work as soon as possible. It is no secret that the work of these educators, both pre-school educators and primary education educators is in principle necessary for the same doctors so that they can ensure the continuity of their work and go to work every day. The same applies to police officers and everyone else, without whom this crisis management, in particular, could not work so well. In this regard, it is very wrong - to talk about something very... in any case - such a very positive, highly valued group and respectable group, but give priority to it... before the same top priorities... those who are important to society as a whole. I call on the opposition to support the interests of the general public. And it is in the common interest that young children can go and get education on the spot. I have not heard that there would be opposition support for Ilga Šuplinska that there would be support for the Ministry of Education and Science for this fight on the interests of the community. Instead, we get various draft decisions. Then there, let's say, try to set one group against preschool teachers, then try another group... and now also encourages the transfer, for example, to a commission... What will that commission decide on? These decisions must be made by government. Everyone must support the Minister for Education and Science in this fight for their training, especially for the training of young children on the ground. Is it not clear to anyone else why vaccination for teachers is taking place in Lithuania at the moment, for example, and not in Latvia? In Latvia it will be 600 thousand... other people, when all of them will be offered its vaccination. I feel that this is not fair and that it is against the interests of the general public. And in this respect, I think that everyone in this fight must agree - which is a priority for society. If the doctors can't go to work... Well, maybe someone will decide that he can... if someone has a parent or a grandparent who can look after the child at home, or if the other parent, for example, does not work, then he can sit at home. But most of the time... On average... It is mostly the case that there is no such possibility for workers, families. It is therefore important to support in every way, not pretending, knowing well that... Šuplinska, by the way, is the only one that reminds the government of the importance of sport, education of interest... pre-school institutions, primary school and everything else... And she doesn't have any support. I call on him to support him directly. Isn't that what we all want? No, instead, we have to hand them over to the commission, so that they... so that those who are fighting to get children back to school... and customised educators, who are also particularly at risk groups... We know that these are perhaps not the younger people who work as educators... Instead of summoning them, it is said, "Suplinsk, you haven't done anything there again." And the funnyest - so we are already asking for its open government sittings: let the whole of society see how they are fighting. No one knows that right now, unfortunately. I call for this proposal to be rejected. There again, in the commission, to speak long and wide, that everything is bad?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But we really need to do it, get to work and do it! Supporting the vaccination of preprimary teachers, primary teachers, special school teachers as... Primary! And then, Class 9, 12, everybody! Let the children go to school so they don't lose a year. I call for this to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U33	Viktors Valainis, Member of the Education, Culture and Science Commission, has applied for the referral of this own-initiative proposal. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U34	Colleagues! I can say with full responsibility that Minister for Education and Science Šuplinska and government representatives in general would be much better if they did not talk about education in public space at all if they simply obeyed. This would give the education system much more than it is today, when they actually roam from one ditch to the other. One day they say, students, get ready to go to school! After that, at the last moment, she says, however: no, you will work from home! Then you say again, get ready! Then they say again: no, but you will work from home! Colleagues, this twilight is an expression of disrespect for the education system. The fact that you are talking about someone in government fighting these issues... I think let's give you an opportunity to show whether anyone really fights or fights. That is why this issue should also be referred to the Commission. And this vaccination issue... It's already... When we call... when they will be able to vaccinate educators... Today day began with a lot of, I think, educators... very, very... educators and anyone who currently needs vaccines... with this, in my opinion, a very sad attitude from senior officials - they will go today, at a time when mass vaccination has not yet started, to receive this vaccine. I do not really understand this decision. I would understand when mass vaccination begins, then - yes, but now, when there are so many people at risk (for example, the same teachers we are talking about here) and when we have so much vaccine that we are even, let's say, its symbolic vaccinations... even they can't be guaranteed... It's just like a show on the level: today, here are these seniors, there's something else... The doctors... I'm going to give you something else. So many people – both medical and social care centres – who still have to be vaccinated, and teachers are still standing in the enthroned row! Colleagues, what is to blame for that? Is it not the same government that you, a large part, represent and still support? This government, in my opinion, has already wasted itself. The last thing you can do is give the Saeima something... Another way to start regulating what is happening in the government. That is why the following draft decisions must be handed over... if you're not ready to pass... voting in favour of such a draft decision... at least for the commission... and, in the Commission, the Members should now take on... To give an open opinion on these issues, because I think the government has now wasted itself. The decision last night... that there will be some kind of strategic board... it is a certificate of poverty for this government. In my opinion, the Saeima is the only one that can address these issues in some way. Otherwise... we do not know how this coalition can still exist at all. Hide behind closed sittings, of course, you can. I call for this draft decision to be passed on to the commission responsible, not to continue to address it in the closed government sittings, where... quite simply no member of the public can get acquainted with what you decide there. Then you come out, you praise each other, you lamma, all kinds of... There are open sittings here in the Saeima, where these issues must also be seen in an open manner, and Members of the Saeima must also take responsibility for real work, for what is happening in the country at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U35	Thank you. One Member has spoken 'yes', one Member has spoken 'no' to refer this own-initiative proposal to the Education, Culture and Science Commission of the Saeima. Other proposals for commissions were not made. There is no room for debate on this issue at the moment. Other proposals cannot be made either. We must vote first. Please call me! We will vote for handing over to the Saeima Education, Culture and Science Commission of the draft decision of the Saeima “On task of ensuring continuity of children’s and young people’s dance and physical activity classes”! Please vote mode! For - 40, for - 47, for - 1. The own-initiative proposal has been rejected. Agenda of the next sitting - processing of parliamentary requests Requests received by Members. Members Armands Krauze, Raimonds Bergmanis, Uldis Augulis, Edgars Tavars, Jānis Dūklavs, Jānis Vucāns, Gundars Dauge, Māris Kučinskis, Viktors Valainis and Janīna Jalinska have submitted a request to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On an attempt by the Minister of Justice to influence the judiciary”. Under the parliamentary roll, the applicants have asked to give the floor to Member Viktor Valaini to motivate the request. Mr. Valaiņš, please also apply electronically. Name to motivate Member Viktor Valaini.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U36	Colleagues! The principle of separation of powers, the independent judiciary - these are undoubtedly fundamental principles of a democratic state. There are, of course, politicians, there are Members, there are Ministers, there are Heads of Commissions - everyone has a field of responsibility and also a responsibility to the fundamental principles of democracy. And the Prime Minister has the same responsibility. In this case, we see that it happened... A very dubious situation has arisen... There's a judgment, there's a decision... a decision that no one has ever met, except for the participants themselves. And is the Head of the Commission, the Head of the Legal Commission, is the Minister of Justice of the Republic of Latvia. Shut up and, uh... whether this judgment is good or bad. Of course, we can continue in such a style. And if the Prime Minister agrees to continue in such a style, then we have to be consistent. We can go in the specific direction of Poland and challenge the European Union and the rule of law as such. So the main subject of our request... the object is the Prime Minister. We ask the Prime Minister whether he really is willing to throw such a challenge and why the Prime Minister has not been... no type of reaction. The justice system met together and agreed on a resolution, not to mention... but it is clear to everyone what this decision was about - that you should listen a little bit to the senior officials, in Latvian, in places where they should not speak, if they don't know anything from the circumstances of the case. In this case, the Prime Minister has a question. And the request is made to the Prime Minister: why has he not followed any reaction to such a loud violation of the principle of separation of power by the Minister of Justice, Bordan. The fact that there was absolutely no response makes me think that such an approach is acceptable to this Prime Minister. But, well, I do not really understand whether these are really the values that the country of Latvia is joining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U37	According to the Rally of the Saeima, the request to the Prime Minister Artur Krišjānis Kariņš “On an attempt by the Minister of Justice to influence the judiciary” is submitted to the Saeima Appeals Commission. The next item is a request from Members Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Krišāna, Valeria Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Edgars Kucina, Jānis Tutina, Ivana Klementyeva, Boris Cileviča, Igors Pimenova and Regina Lochmele to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On the validity of decisions taken by your government regarding the containment of Covid-19 disease.” On behalf of the applicants, Ivars Zarins has been asked to give a statement of reasons in accordance with the roll of order of the Saeima. Please log in to the system as well. Please, Mr. Zarins, you have a name.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U38	Good afternoon, everyone! Yes, this is our request after we have received many questions about the legitimacy of government decisions and requests to explain them from Latvian society. They are not clear to us either, so we have prepared this request. Not only for us, but also for most of society, if not for the whole of Latvian society, we have the feeling that our government behaves like small children. It is really like little children who accidentally get to the wheel of the car and now that the car has started to move, they don't understand what to do with this car in order to be able to drive it in some way, so that this car doesn't need to break itself, that's not to touch this country. And there's pressure... There's a feeling - all the pedals are pressed in a row, which can only be pressed in order to somehow be able to manage this process. These concerns are compounded by the fact that, after receiving this request, where we ask to explain certain decisions made by the Latvian government and to give reasons for these decisions, Krišjānis Kariņš has now come to public disclosure that he has understood that decisions are probably taken without justification... without proper justification, without proper analysis. Colleagues, we've been fighting together for almost a year, and after a year... After years of government decision, the head of government has suddenly come... and, upon receipt of this request, the Head of Government has come to light that perhaps something is not really wrong with their decisions that they lack justification. You know, there's a feeling that this government is like little, blind puppies who... All they can do is know from the mother bean. And that's all they can do! And that creates such a very harsh and unpleasant revelation that perhaps the only thing we can do is we can no longer rely on government decisions. And if you want to do something about this coyd crisis, then only so: you have to take all this in your own hands and start doing everything for yourself. Because it is naive - to hope that you will expect from this government thought-out and logical decisions. What we do in this request is we are asking for an explanation of these paradoxal things. Why has the government suddenly come to the conclusion that, for example, the paper can be sold, but the foil can't be sold? Where's the logic? Where is the logic that people cannot now, in winter, buy the necessary electrical goods? Where's the logic? Why will some shops be allowed to sell something, while others will not? Why can the same product be regulated in a shop? We very much hope that the Prime Minister will be able to respond...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U39	Mr. Zarins (A Sound Break) ... sound during your speaking... Thus, a request to Prime Minister Artur Krišjānis Kariņš “On the validity of decisions taken by your government regarding the prevention of the spread of Covid-19 disease” is submitted to the Parliamentary Commission for Petitions. The next item is the opinions of the Petitions Commission. Request by Members Viktors Valaiņa, Lubova Švecova, Ulda Augulis, Janina Jalinska, Edgars Tatars, Armands Krauze, Jānis Vacans, Māra Kučinska, Raimonds Bergmanis and Julia Stepanenko to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš “On possible investigation into the process of acquiring vaccine against Covid-19”. On behalf of the Commission, Ivars Puga, Member. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U40	Good morning, colleagues! The Commission examined the request made by Members Viktoras Valaiņa, Lubova Švekova, Ulda Augulis, Janina Jalinska, Edgars Tatars, Armands Krauze, Jānis Vucanas, Māra Kučinska, Raimonds Bergmanis and Jūlia Stepanenko to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš on the possible conduct of an investigation into the acquisition of vaccine against Covid–19 (No. 43/P13), document No. 3414 and the vote (6 - in favour, 7 - against) acknowledged that Members' request should be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U41	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U42	Colleagues! That's the request. And a little bit about this time, about how we've even reached that point... And the previous draft decision of the Saeima - that this investigation should be entrusted to the prosecutor's office... Already at the end of the year, at the end of last year, in December, we applied for this information on refusal to purchase Pfizer vaccines. And, of course, we compared what are here, in the other Baltic countries, how much this vaccine has been bought by governments. Of course, the first questions arose, and then there were also the first requests from the then Minister for Health, Viņķelis, about what had really happened. Of course, I find it difficult to explain and understand this demand... these long corridors; it has been that the demand is quickly coming to the Saeima sitting, it has been that we are waiting for the demand for several months. And this demand, of course, followed already after other requests did not really follow any significant response. And at the first request to Viņķelis, we saw certain government parties meet right away, like... In my opinion, the BCP was the ones who were meeting and suddenly started to worry... only after the opposition had submitted its request to Viņķelis for the purchase of vaccines, rang and began to worry... that they also see interested in what happens to the vaccines. This request for an investigation has now been followed. And as soon as we signed it, a message appeared in the public space that the Minister of Health had launched an internal investigation at the Ministry of Health. And, of course, when we defended the Request Commission... We drew attention to... and, in support of the request, we have pointed out that it is mainly for the government to exercise the powers conferred on it by the Public Prosecutor's Office Law and to approach the Public Prosecutor's Office with such an incentive to order the Public Prosecutor's Office to conduct an investigation, an independent investigation, rather than an internal investigation. And, as I said in the previous speech, these internal investigations... they're to a large extent... more connected... I think there's a political attempt here to get my eyes asleep... In my opinion, the officials who are currently working are being thrown under the tank, telling us that they see them being those responsible and that some kind of repression will now be carried out against them, perhaps even being laid off. But we see various accusations in the public space... Health-related people... on various lobbys. This seems unacceptable to me. If that's the case... And I think it's for Development/About! certainly we can say that it is the most lobbies-dependent group at present in the Saeima... that if, in this case, in the case of such an important issue, there have also been some lobbies, some person's desire or unwillingness to support one or the other supplier, an entrepreneur who has already been contracted with the suppliers of the vaccine concerned... that it has prevailed in this decision, that these have been the real reasons in this chain, that we will never really understand in internal investigations. And it also appeared today, when it was this lobby-dependent group that was the most opposed in a way. And here I have to agree with Mr. Zarins that their fear of these decisions, the fear of these investigations, only shows that there is probably something more there. And maybe not those ministerial officials are those prime culprits to where we are today. And, of course, after examining this request in the Commission, where we also expressed these arguments, on the same day, there was a message that KNAB was also involved in this matter. I see and understand that the opposition's opinion is being followed in this respect and politicians are trying to respond to it, and I am very pleased that it is not that our work remains overlooked; both political parties and institutions, the institutions are reacting to it. But in this case, I would not like to depart from this approach that we still need more clarity on this issue, because it is essentially a tragedy that has been caused... Well, don't give it to God, it's been caused by some lobby fight - by political lobby for which supplier we will work with which supplier we will not work. Colleagues! It is a very serious criminal offence that, in such circumstances, political lobbyists can play such games with human lives. And I think what has happened here is not taking responsibility... Well, I'm not talking exactly about... not for the political responsibility, where... in fact, we dropped down now Mrs. Viņķele and think that everything is all right... I think that the political... various lobbyists walk in a circle that is connected with my aforementioned fraction, because... I see that Mr. Zarins has also applied to speak. The question raised by Mr Zarins about these masks, too... Well, he very clearly illustrated that we can do whatever we want - we can make decisions what we want, we can buy from what we want... and that's nothing that money has been spent, that society has not benefited from it, but some good entrepreneurs have earned it very well. And that, in my opinion, is absolutely unacceptable. This request was a hint to the Prime Minister - to draw attention to these issues, to involve the responsible institutions, which are the relevant services, to point out that the Public Prosecutor's Law gives them such a right - to carry out such checks. And I very much hope that, as a result of all this work, it will not end with us... will be tried simply by the public to suffocate the eyes of the fact that there were, on the other hand, internal investigations. The collective irresponsibility is the fault of the Secretary of State and another official, who no one knows, but the real perpetrators of the cases, the real perpetrators, will simply continue to bear Mr Pavļuta in front of us all. So, colleagues, I call for this request to be supported. In my opinion, the action that has now been followed by requests for opposition and the position of the opposition... on the part of the government, there has been a step in the right direction, but absolutely insufficient. It is not enough to really make this situation clearer for the whole Latvian society... It's first and foremost... and avoid the recurrence of such processes in the near future. Colleagues, I call for this request to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U43	Thank you. We are continuing the debate. Mr. Zarins, are you going to have nine minutes?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U44	Yeah, I'll be fine with nine minutes. If we're talking about...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U45	Mr. Zarins, if you want to do beauty, please, so that the sound is not disturbed, so that we hear what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U46	(Sound rupture) ... to hear very well what I'm talking about. I speak loud enough. And as far as I understand, you can hear well what I'm talking about. So what am I supposed to say in this regard? Colleagues, I have a great deal of experience with this procession, starting with the OIC phase, and in principle I see now... I am currently seeing the same manuscript as in the OIC. So if you want to cover something... If you don't want to find out a crime, then you need to make an investigation of that crime. And that's what this power will usually do. When this power initiates some kind of checks, these checks are proposed not to reveal anything, but to conceal this crime. For, if you successfully choose the right testers to check in such a race that nothing is revealed, then you can say: “Look... There, it was the responsible authority, it has checked everything, it has not discovered anything, so it's all right." In this case, we see the same situation. The situation is as follows: as soon as someone is ready to start checking this process, an alternative verification process must be launched, which will enable the necessary conclusions to be drawn with urgency. And so, colleagues, it would be very important to support this request today, to withdraw here, to the Saeima - to the Saeima! - the responsible officials, in this case the ministers, the prime minister, who would tell us how this purchase has taken place, how this order of vaccines has taken place. What I've done is I've already started my investigation. I have already received the first answers to the questions raised in this particular context. And these issues were very specific. So, in view of the test of the service that has been performed, as I said, they have made an excellent cover. Make a cover that seems to have been all right on the one hand, and something has really been wrong on the other. But what has not been in order, why has not been in order, is impossible to find out, because it has been a collective decision, a collective irresponsibility. But in fact, if I really wanted to check it all, then it could all be done by asking very specific questions, and I've also done that by asking to give... All right, you can't say it together... who's there, like there's that common opinion... who has formed it there, but you can, each individual member of this sitting, answer for his or her opinion. And all that was to be done during the inspection of this service is to ask for the views of each individual member of the meeting. That's what they remember... Each. And by leaving this, we could already put together a common picture - from where these threads start to emerge, which comes with this initiative, which has supported it, as it has supported. Just like that, about the decision, too... Now the guilty is found, who in this case is Ainārs Lācbergs, the Head of the Procurement Unit, who has sent this application. But why does the Minister for Health avoid saying - who has prepared enough, who has given it exactly this distribution, who has recommended it? Because, simply the same way, this division could not have arisen. Someone had to prepare for it, someone had to recommend it. What... Is that so? Or then all together - all those participants in the sitting, eleven, suddenly in one voice, cried out: “Oh, let’s get so many “Pfizer” vaccines and so many “AstraZeneca” vaccines!” No, it was definitely one particular person who offered it. And so we could separate it all. All of this is realistic. And if you, fellow Members, do not want to do it yourself, do not want to be honest and competent to find out what has actually happened and what interests have been lobbying, we will do it. It won't be so fast. Yes, it will be much longer, much more painful, but we will do it. And in parallel, it will then also be a substance for the law enforcement authorities... about everything that has happened, and perhaps also about those people who will have participated in this process but will not have found anything. So, colleagues, I call for this request to be supported. And I call on all the public to follow this purchase of vaccines, as well as the purchase of masks, respiratory equipment, for which, as Mr Valaiņš rightly pointed out, the responsible officials are unable to explain anything, to tell us why it was necessary to buy these almost a million respiratory equipment from a businessman who is not doing business at all at an inappropriate price, even though we could buy at a cheaper price. On the procedure that did not comply with the requirements of the law, on documents that did not comply with the goods, none of these arguments - none! - you can't disprove... Almost none of these questions where they needed to prove that they had been justified... that all these actions have been justified, appropriate and responsible... is unable to provide. So that will be a very interesting continuation of all this. And I think, in the context of this purchase of vaccines, it can really be a very serious substance for society to think about how it really is... how responsible this power is. And so, my fellow Members, I say to the whole society: if you want to do something in this difficult time of crisis, you want some results, take everything in your own hands. This government cannot be expected for the time being unless it is linked to having the opportunity to learn some money, to manage it in a way that is beneficial to them. To be beneficial to you - this is not the case at the moment. So think about all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U47	Dear Members and honourable Members, It's time for a break. But first of all, a very beautiful statement. This week several colleagues have celebrated birthdays. This week's beautiful anniversary has been celebrated by Member Jānis Vucāns. Congratulations! This week's round forty-year anniversary has also been celebrated by Ralph Nemiro. Congratulations! Today's birthday is celebrated by Member Janina Kursīte. Congratulations! And today's birthday is celebrated by Member Krišjānis Feldman. Congratulations! Only Members' registration regime. Registration of the presence of Members has been successful. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U48	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! We continue the remote emergency sitting on 11 February after a break. On the agenda - Opinion of the Petitions Commission. And we are looking at the request of Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Lubova Švekova, Ulda Augulis, Janina Jalinska, Edgars Tatars, Armands Krauze, Jānis Vucanas, Māra Kučinska, Raimonds Bergmanis and Jūlia Stepanenko to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš on the possible conduct of an investigation into the acquisition of vaccine against Covid-19. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U49	Dear Society! And especially - the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau, the State Audit Office, the Prosecutor's Office and all the others! I'll show you how the investigation is to be done. This took me 10 minutes rather than a month to understand who was responsible for giving up the Pfizer vaccine, which was not supplied in favour of AstraZeneca, which was still not supplied. And why is it AstraZeneca distributed by SIA Vaccine... or what they call it SIA... First of all, I have a big question, of course: if vaccines are such a strategic national measure, why are they distributed by a private company? Well, is there not enough department in the Ministry of Health? And then we don't have an army that distributes everything there and so on... Who could distribute such a strategically important product? Well, I guess we need a private company - SIA “Vaccine” if? Let's go. What is “vaccine” Ltd? SIA “Vaccina”, I look at it, is... There is a name and surname behind each SIA. And I see that there's such a name, Aksel and Roshof. In the first moment you, society, it will not say anything, but so that you will have no doubt that this is just... Why did Pfizer not deliver the vaccine, it did not... to make you clear what its salt is - its salt is that Axel Roshof in 2018 was a candidate for Unity... candidate for the Member's post as a candidate for election. Well, and so is the whole answer why “Pfizer” was not - because “Pfizer” suppliers got between legs. Suppliers of Pfizer should have been handed over between their legs because of the need to deliver vaccines to Axel Roshof of Unity. This scheme must be established. It is very simple to check in 10 minutes - entering the Register of Enterprises and look at. And now, about the process. What was the process? On 24 September 2020 such Zuments Aleksandrs withdraws its share of 66,667 percent of SIA “Vaccija”, and Roshofs Aksels reduces his participation from 33,33 percent to 14 percent - in favour of “Arbor Medical Corporation” Ltd. Well, it's such a kind of a health care system that will be adopted by SIA, which always wins all procurements for many years. On 14 August 2020, the European Commission enters into these transactions, and in Latvia the so-called Order form for AstraZeneca is concluded on 21 October. On 21 September, the Ministry of Health received additional funding. That is, two conclusions. Previous managers, owners of vaccine Ltd. (and this is work KNAB!) , and on 24 September 2020 they were redeemed... Second conclusion. At the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers on the strategy of Covid-19 vaccines (No. TA-2222, in which Henkuzen, Viņķele, Šuplinska, Mūrmane-Umbrashko, Girgens, Kariņš, the decision on “Pfizer”/ “BonNTech” vaccines was misunderstood and smuggled from the Cabinet of Ministers to the Ministry of Health, whose working group completed it in the most direct sense. The minutes were simply ate by someone on behalf of this working group. No protocol, it was eaten. The fact is, the whole Cabinet of Ministers knew that it was necessary to apply for a “Pfizer”/“Bonnettech” and the Cabinet of Ministers had to assume such responsibility, because Kariņš had to state clearly and clearly the following: that the purchase of vaccines is a priority, because at that time Pfizer had already given approval to this vaccine in the United States. If there were no such clear orders from Prime Minister Kariņš, then Kariņš is simply a coward. If it was, then without ordering a Pfizer vaccine, Viņķele, the former Minister of Health, has sabotaged... Prime Minister Kariņš and has caused serious damage to the Republic of Latvia. But if Karin deliberately did not give such a command himself, he is responsible, and they are not any officials, bolts, cut, it is politically responsible person from the Party Development/For! and the political person in this party is called Ilze Viņķelė, who is responsible for not buying the Pfizer vaccine. Next... This is Kariņš, whose party candidate Aksels Roshofs then receives an order to distribute AstraZeneca vaccines. This is the whole answer why there is no Pfizer in Latvia but AstraZeneca - because it had to be returned to Axel Roshof, the candidate of the Unity Member in the 2018 elections. In turn, the existing health minister, Daniel Pavluts, tries to hide and cover all of this. And it's good for Kariņš because his traces are also hidden for his irresponsibility, for his inaction and for the current otcat scheme for his fellows. Hence, intercessors are being searched, screws are being searched, heaped, officials are being searched, and so on. That is the true answer for those responsible, who cannot be found by the power for months that it does not want to find and, in time, the law enforcement authorities do not want to be found. That is why I am now addressing Mr Strees, Head of the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption. Mr. Stream, don't be so cowardly! It's time! There is a huge crisis in the country - the mega crisis - and you even allow theft to be stolen in this crisis. How long?Oh, no, no, no, no, It's hard for people to go! These people who do not send vaccines to those who want to be vaccinated are responsible for the deaths of people: Viņķelė, Kariņš, Paviluts and everyone else. They are the ones who are responsible. And they are responsible for theft that is still taking place in such a time of crisis. That is the most honest answer. It can't be fairer. This can be checked in 10 minutes. If you don't know how to enter the Register of Enterprises to check who owns and what links, then just type in Google... by name... You will be thrown out immediately on the list that has been applied for, on the date on which the procurements that have been made will be made available. There's no need for brigades... The 12 brigades that are driving to have two people come together to go on the street. They have to be driven out because they're too close to each other. You don't need such a brigades, I did it in 10 minutes. Law enforcement authorities, I hope that you - I did it without funding! - there is funding, you have all the equipment with which you can check it all in still double, triple and similar form. Let's go! ‘ Pfizer’s vaccine we don’t have because AstraZeneca needed to have a New Unity chat. And that's it. That is the whole answer. There's nothing much to investigate. Or perhaps give you a more detailed description of this question? On this issue in more detail, I can tell you only the section that Pfizer vaccines are distributed ( well, I'm not saying that they are good or something else)... As a consequence, the vaccine was intended to be distributed to ‘ Recipe Plus’. They are not directly related to the New Unity, they don't care, they are working with everyone, with all politicians - probably. Which can be decorticated, working with them as well. But the main emphasis is on the fact that these people... From the Limbajo side, Twentieth lives... Something like... There also time began in that Vidzeme list of Roshofs. This can be checked. Check together all the other purchases made by these people of the New Unity at expensive prices in the area of health. For healthcare, the budget is billion and how many hundred million are there, and at the same time we see how it is spent. At the same time, we can see what kind of crane is in health care, and it is precisely because everything is happening to ours. Not because healthcare would simply have too little money, but because for their own, because simply brutally steals. Do you want any more names? I think we're on the next requests... You know my phone too, you can call all law enforcement agencies. I will explain to you how to search for Google to enter names, how to enter and do everything else in the Register of Enterprises. And politicians. All who are now in power, what are you covering one another? You are already afraid that this government will fall, so everyone will not get that okkat. Bail's simple. Tell me honestly that is the case. You are all responsible for the death of people. You are all responsible for keeping people out of work and standing in line at supermarkets minus 20 degrees on the island, because this is your only superpowerful solution. Talking about some kind of vaccine office... Let's talk about the vaccine office. You're there for that genius, she's somewhere... where is she? At the same time as the President of Latvia, winter sleep is something. By the way, one of the most experienced specialists in Latvia, one of Maxima's leaders, came to the position of the head of the vaccination office. Well, there's no doubt that Maxima's logistics related every day all the time, just doing it like doing logistics, knows very well how to serve a large number of consumers. Such a person applied for a competition for the post of head of vaccination bureau. He wasn't valid, because I just had to put the piaarists in again. Let us be honest, Mrs. Juhvevič is a pianist. And there's no need for such an office. We don't need an office to convince the public that we need vaccination. We needed an office to provide vaccines for those who want to be vaccinated. Five thousand euros are kept in its salaries. What are you talking about? There was one interview in Russian LTV7... Now I recommend that you all watch Mrs Juhvevič's competence in the supply of vaccines. Watch! Hrestomatically. The kind of pyars were put together, and everybody was on the way. And let's just talk about how hard we are, how serious we are, how serious we are, and how sadly we make decisions how to limit people's daily lives, and let's continue to limit another 100 years ahead about... It's the same. No, you can do that already. It's only good for the opposition, it's good for me too. They are cynical and political. You are certainly coming close to having no more politics with all of your decisions claiming the Nobel Prize for Debism. Keep doing the same. But those who need to check just enter to see who the owners of “Vaccina” Ltd. are and what they have to do with the New Unity. Then you will get an answer why “AstraZeneca”, why not “Pfizer”, why “Pfizer” was lying down and it will be the whole answer. And they're not officials, they're top-ranking politicians responsible for this -- Viņķele, Kariņš, the Cabinet of Ministers, who studied it all, blessed it. And all these people have access to state secrets, and they all know what is involved as one. You don't have to pretend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U50	Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U51	Dear President, Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that today, at this time, this discussion is on the request of the Prime Minister for a possible investigation into the process of acquiring a vaccine against Covid-19. I would remind you that people, Members who have signed this request... we are concerned that there has been or has been any lobbying for the purchase of this vaccine... optional, during the ordering process. I don't personally think... I may be wrong, but I do not think that there has been direct or indirect corruption here. Personally, I believe that there has rather been such a truly lobbying, using naive... either, naive people, their naive faith, which will not go into this process, allowing itself to be led, in favour of a particular producer, as a result of which our country, our society, has remained without the much-needed vaccines. Our economy is still standing. Our doctors, educators, are still very few unvaccinated. What we see right now is that the head of the government, the head of the Foreign Affairs Commission, receives a vaccine at random, but teachers, kindergartens, teachers from pre-school educational institutions are still not vaccinated. Students sit at home, Zoom, MS Team takes them class hours in the environment. We see these problems as a result of this lobbying... which has been done to Latvian society. That is why it is very important for us that the Prime Minister responds to these five questions. There are no accusations here about possible corruption or unfair conduct: there are specific issues that the Saeima is asking the Prime Minister. Talk to the public what people think, also what the media in the public sector are talking about the process of purchasing and choosing these vaccines. Obviously in society is justified... possibly justified concerns about some lobbying. I therefore call for this request to be supported, so that the Prime Minister, who is the Head of Government, can provide clear answers and perhaps dispel concerns. But if these concerns are fulfilled, then we also expect the relevant law enforcement bodies to respond in an appropriate way so that the perpetrators are brought to justice in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U52	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U53	Good morning, dear colleagues! Well, here my position is a little different from that of colleagues in the opposition. I believe that no investigation makes any sense, because all those responsible are clear - it is the Cabinet of Ministers in full, colleagues! For even a year ago, when the pandemic just started, it was clear that all this could end only in two ways - either, if all the people of Latvia were to burst into a community and, as the senior official of our country rightly pointed out, some would live to the next... will celebrate the next Christmas and some not, or when the vaccination of the population will take place... at least 70 per cent. All of this was known, colleagues, a year ago. Then it was also known that several vaccines, more than 20, had been applied for, that all of them had a variety of progress - with tests, with tests, with the time the vaccine was accepted, with efficiency, and so on, that the situation changed almost every week. All this was clear, colleagues, for a person with six classes of education. But the government should have special control over this issue, Prime Minister - special control. The government should have started every meeting with a report on what is happening, what is happening, what is progress with each of these more than 20 potentially available vaccines, what is our procurement portfolio, what has been agreed upon and so on. That should have been done every week, every meeting of the government. Did the government do this? Did the Prime Minister himself do that? I think the answer is obvious, colleagues. Apparently, in all those government sittings, in A, in B, in all those coalitions, in their inner rasborca, it was so exciting and interesting that all of this either did not have enough time or had no interest. I think that the same government and coalition are clearer about what really happened there. Then all of this was left to officials to decide. And what, then, do you think the officials would do in this regard if the officials were left with such a hot coupel, where the consequences of a wrong decision could be very damaging? It is clear that officials would set up a system of decision-making in which it would not be possible to identify who and how this decision was taken. Or the officials were in charge... a decision was made on the basis of the lowest price criterion, favouring the vaccine which was the cheapest and most convenient to use. What do you think would happen? If the government itself did not actually want to make any decisions in this important area. That is why we are now starting an investigation against officials - is there really very much any point, because, as I said, all 14 perpetrators are known. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U54	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U55	As the ancient wisdom of the people shows, if you want a good job to be done, do it yourself. And the same thing we can apply to this investigation. Here I can agree with what Vjačeslav Dombrovskis said about the clear fact that the main perpetrator of this whole process is the government, it is the Cabinet of Ministers. If this government sees vaccination as the only exit strategy from the communion crisis, it does not see any other routes and does not mean anything other than that, by vaccinating all people, it would have been only logical that this important solution would have been brought to the attention of the government and followed it rather than left it in a self-flow. But why is it important... why it is important, however, to investigate this process. And here, where I do not agree with Vjačeslav, we are not saying that we are addressing an official. — Sound Break. ... now the official and so on. No, it's about it's important for us to investigate how it happened... this decision has been taken... the process itself. And why is it important to do so? Because this government, as you hear, always says why you... when asked: “Why don’t you be able to justify your decisions that are adequate... Which, let us say, is the reasonableness of all the concerns that have already arisen?" The government responds: “Well, we took them on the basis of expert judgement, based on expert advice.” That is why it is so important for us to find out who was then the expert and what has been specifically recommended. All this can be explained, contrary to what the health minister claimed in his alleged service test. And why is it important to do so? Colleagues! Once again, I can say this as a man who is good enough and a lot, and has carefully split the scenes of this government - there is one obvious handwriting, a very common feature of the way in which the government usually carries out its own aeros, and that is exactly how Krišjānis Kariņš and his government are doing and telling. So when a government makes a decision and then it turns out that this decision is obviously either unjustified or not in the public interest, then the government always has - what reservation? ‘ We have already made this decision on the basis of what we were told." Thus, the apheres are usually based on a scheme: there are some consultants who give their opinion, and based on this opinion, the government takes a decision. It was sold to Citadele, acquired shares in Conexus, it was done in all other cases. It is on the principle of such an aphere. It is therefore very important now to start this process of responsibility in some way in this decision, because as a result, since it is currently being schemed, no one is finally responding, because, you see, what decided, he already decided on the basis of the information that was prepared, but those who prepared the information - they were not the ones who decided. And in this way this collective responsibility is formed. Here too... in the present case, it is, however, very basic to find out how this decision was made, contrary to what the Ministry of Health now claims, that it cannot be clarified, because, you see, it was a collective irresponsibleness. No, there was no collective irresponsibleness. Collectively, all of these members of the Commission could not appeal at the same time: “We have such a Pfizer vaccine!” It was one particular person who came with such a proposal. Every particular person in this working group expressed some opinion about it, and all this can be clarified, but the Ministry of Health does not want to do so. I don't know why it'd be nicely said. That's all... All this indicates, all these signs directly, indirectly, that it is the current phase. Not just irresponsibleness, but perhaps the current scene. Just the same way as regards the procurement of masks and respiratorys, where it is already obvious... where the facts must just start to put together. If caught and competent investigation were to be carried out, it would be possible to prove it very well and accurately. That is why I call, colleagues, to remember the wisdom of this people - if you want to do a good job... to have done a good job, do it yourself - and extend it to government actions. I call for this request to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U56	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U57	Colleagues! I wanted to respond to Mr Dombrovskis and to emphasise again what I have already mentioned in my speech. In my opinion, this government has indeed already shown that it is, by its very nature, incapable of acting. And it shows this by the fact that it is no longer able to justify its decisions. I also think that one of the major initial mistakes of the government has now fallen out - to remove the meetings of the Committee of the Cabinet of Ministers, where issues, with the involvement of many members of society in detail, could be discussed before the meeting of the government. Those who have been ministers or who have ever participated in such formats know very well what I am talking about. This government refused such a very normal, clear, transparent process of debate on unclear issues. At the moment, it results from the fact that the government is no longer able not only to make but also to explain its decisions, and as such a full point on the i form this strategic board. I can already say today that this strategic board will be an absolute failure, because the government will not be able to respond and will not be able to carry out the tasks that the members of the board will bring to the attention of governments and ask them to do so. So, colleagues, I think that the point of this request - and I would also like to respond to Mr Dombrovskis - is to make it clear that these issues, by their very nature, need to be taken over by Parliament under its supervision and to start controlling, in substance, what the government is doing at the moment, because we are realisticly, the government is now giving a blind vote to everything, to a large extent, about everything that the government has prepared, on all the issues that the government has put forward... refuse to take your own... take responsibility for what the government has done... some kind of investigation activities. This is one of the parliamentary methods by which Parliament can give the government some task, pay attention and also demand some action. There are also other parliamentary methods. I have the feeling that soon we will get to these methods, it will not be a long time. If Parliament ignores such procedures, we will use and encourage colleagues to make use of other solutions that the opposition has been given. And I really... It was very recently when I too... Indeed, colleagues, the irresponsibility that is present here is rather inexplicable. Aldis Gobzems also set a very good example in various media. There's two businessmen... Lobby began with each other... Well, what's the difference to buy, the main thing that its vaccines are. At the moment, lobbying struggles have ended with the fact that we simply do not have those vaccines. What we have is funny. We already have doctors in our neighbors, we still have shows. And indeed, we have already had a tragedy in the country. I have recently read an interview by my colleague, Mr Urbanovič, where he compared this in a way with the tragedy of Zolitude. It is a tragedy, a real tragedy now that has happened. Tens die every day, but we are told that there has been an investigation of the ministry. Colleagues, I call on you to think about this and indeed to address it directly from Parliament. The government will not do anything about this; they are simply weak; they are defending one another. Service investigations, something else... Parliament must take responsibility. If not, then this Parliament must simply go home if it really cannot have any material influence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U58	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U59	I'll start my speech with the fact that I'm a little disappointed at Mrs. Zariņš. Mr. Zarins could not completely cut those hair, but at least once in his life there would have been one such stylish hairstyle. But, continuing on behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers and the responsibility, we have a Prime Minister who does not understand that there is a Prime Minister who is afraid to take decisions, a fear to cancel decisions, a fear to be held responsible, a fear to be a virus, a fear to be vaccinated, before “Panorama” shows everyone that it should be done with AstraZeneca (which his party has now delivered with the wrong temperature - that Aksels Roshofs) and he is afraid of everything. If I were to be Prime Minister in today's circumstances, as Prime Minister, I would also say clearly and clearly: "After the information I have at my disposal on this issue - the failure to deliver the vaccine, the failure to deliver the Pfizer vaccine - is the responsibility of former Minister Viņķele. And accordingly, it is also responsible, let us say, in fact the entire Cabinet of Ministers, including the Prime Ministers (i.e. the Karini himself). We knew it all, we made a mistake. We're leaving." This should be done by the Prime Minister in this particular situation. We have a Prime Minister who doesn't understand he's Prime Minister. You see that. He lacks data analysis, and so he decides that in minus 20 degrees the pensioners are now at supermarkets, in a row. He's got data that's very helpful. Well, those who didn't forget, I'm sorry for a very cynical statement, in the nurses, they're going to get those viruses and get sick to those supermarkets, minus 15 degrees outside... They should do data analysis... I'm sorry, the same... Even the same person who was a candidate for the post of head of vaccination office from Maxima's management - had to be consulted to find out about the habits of shopping. I can explain the habits. Why are those rows with pensioners? You drive along every supermarket, you'll see: there's full of pensioners. Because pensioners have so little money that they go to every shop in the district and buy a product with a discount or for a share in each store. Buy butter in one store, buy sugar in the other store, if there is money, buy grills in the third store with a discount, visit all the shops in the district - these are the habits. If you lack such data, Prime Minister, Mr Kariņš, I would advise you - you have a phone, you can call any chairman of the supermarket's network board directly as a prime minister and clarify it (this takes five minutes) instead of telling the television that you have no data that you do not understand. What then do you lead that country, that you don't understand anything? You have no data for years, and then you make decisions without data... all restrictions? What is it about state administration? You understand at all that you are in Latvia, not in Brussels or that one in Wilmington or Wisconsin... Where are you from? You are Prime Minister of Latvia, Mr. Kariņš, and you must start making decisions. And the only right decision you can make today is to go home. Get away and drive home, and stop suffering the Latvian society, stop measuring it, without any means - you saluted those 500 euros in all the social networks, everywhere - it's just going to be, it's just going to be! You've done a lot of money, it's just gonna be, it's just gonna be! Where is it? The only thing is, there are lines at supermarkets - there can be gathered now, the safest place! Children must not play sports, children must not dance, children must not in principle learn, but you have a vaccination office. The vaccine is not available - the office has, the alarms have. It's okay. Your candidate also had an order, as with masks or anything. And so for years a scheme has been developed - always just steal, steal, steal, steal, steal, always just steal, even in times of crisis you only know - steal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U60	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U61	Hello, dear colleagues! The first question that should be asked seems to be: is there a point in this request or is it not in place? In order to answer this question, one more question must be asked: how do we go with vaccination? How do we get vaccines? What is the situation as a whole, when compared to other European countries, with the situation in the European Union as a whole? And it seems that this response will be very negative. That demand is therefore clearly to be supported. Go on. What will we receive as a result of the examination of the request? The first question - how the procurement processes of vaccines were organised, the development of a vaccination mechanism, in general - is how the public administration mechanism works, taking the relevant decisions and implementing these decisions. These questions can be answered in the course of the investigation. The second question is, which can also be received... to which can be answered in the course of investigations - whether there are visible or visible criminal or fraudulent transactions, whether there are any elements of corruption and so on, and still what is important. If we want the mechanism to work properly, then it needs to be investigated. The third issue is political responsibility. No investigation will, unfortunately, give a definite and concrete answer to this, as it does... It can only be done as a result of elections. And I hope this will happen, too, because political responsibility in this case is extremely important, and I think we are dealing with it during the debate alone. I therefore call for this request to be supported, in the sense that the voting machine will work as required. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U62	The name of Member Regina Lochmele. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U63	Hello, colleagues! We must support this request in order to understand one thing: the quality of the processes, because it will not mean automatic punishment of non-political officials. But it is vital for us to understand at the moment whether the fact that the vaccination process was killed at the very beginning - or whether there was no fault in the specifics of any non-related processes of the public administration - is it really that the activities of the ministries do not require, for example, the documentation of the decision-making process. As we know, one of these aspects was highlighted in the service investigation carried out by the Ministry of Health. Is it really true that all the decisions that are made are made with a very large complement of subjectivity? Is the Cabinet really not asking the ministries to report on decisions that are of priority? Until it is clear whether the decision-making process in the ministries is open and accountable to society, we will not be able to move forward, because there will be no guarantee that the next issue of vital importance for Latvia will not be adopted in the same way - so without openness, without the decision process document... ( The sound is broken.)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U64	Mrs. Lochmele, we can't hear you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U65	... that (A sound breakdown) ... automatically those people who are not politicians. But, of course, what people expect - they expect only one: who will answer for us to die every day because of unpurchased vaccines? Here was already a comparison with the Zolitude tragedy. As we know, the Court of First Instance found something like that - yes, 54 people have died. But was it the fault of those who might possibly be held guilty if there were laws in force at that time that prevented them from being held liable because those laws did not require specific action from them? So this demand is needed to understand whether all the processes in our ministries are really high-quality and in the public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U66	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U67	Dear colleagues, I'm, of course, on one page... I am with my opposition colleagues to investigate. Of course, if we are in a situation where we have a vaccination office but no vaccines, we should be investigated. Even if today its coalition voting machine does not work and its investigation will take place, perhaps, as in many previous investigations, it will be established that there are no faults. It won't be the first time. However, I do not want you to lose sight of that big picture, my fellow Members. The Cabinet of Ministers, in general, the management of any organization, especially the state, must accept, create its agenda, placing the issues that are most important in the first round. It is better not to decide on a less important issue than to decide on a really important issue. As I said, it was always clear to a person with six classes of education that vaccination was the most important... if not most important, then one of the most important issues in our country in the last year. The question is: how many government meetings were devoted to vaccination issues? How many were they? Some? Three, four, five all year? Colleagues, if the government put the issue of vaccination on the agenda of each of its weekly sittings as the first one, with a report on what happens to many vaccines, with the purchase of our vaccine portfolio, if the government were to see it, look at it every week, then, believe me, no official would mind telling the government that there is a new offer of Pfizer or it... No official, my fellow official, would have thought about any kind of machinations or lobbying, or how. No one would ever come in that mind. Therefore, the question of who is responsible for the fact that we have a vaccination office, there are no vaccines, is rhetorical, colleagues. And notice that in the government, unfortunately, that political culture has developed in our country so that the average politician of the ruling coalition does absolutely everything to avoid his personal responsibility for what is happening. Experts are found: “Here, no, we don’t make decisions ourselves, these are experts, we follow experts’ opinions.” So maybe we need to elect those experts, not politicians? In order for the experts to be responsible for decision-making. It's being done... In fact, a culture has emerged where there is mass avoidance of personal political responsibility for decision-making. Will this request help to draw attention to this personal political responsibility? Maybe. Then, as I said, the question of who is politically responsible for this situation... This response is obvious, it is 14 people. Their names are available on the Cabinet's website. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U68	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Panel on Petitions to be added, Mr Pugas?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U69	No, there is nothing to add on behalf of the Panel except (I recall) that Members' request was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U70	Thank you. Please call me! Colleagues, we will vote in favour of Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Lubova Švekova, Ulda Augulis, Janina Jalinska, Edgars Tatars, Armands Krauze, Jānis Vucanas, Māra Kučinska, Raimonds Bergmanis and Jūlija Stepanenko's request to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš "On possible investigation into the process of acquiring vaccine against Covid-19"! Please, let's vote! On - 36, against - 52, refraining from - 1. The request was rejected. On the agenda - request from Member Edgars Tatars, Gundars Dauges, Jānis Dūklavs, Māra Kučinska, Raimonds Bergmanis, Janīna Jalinska, Ulda Augulis, Viktors Valaiņa, Armands Krauze and Jānis Vacāns, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Arturs Pleš, “On calculation of oil spills in the Baltic Sea from the Biegel oil terminal and environmental damage”. Dear colleagues, I inform you that the Saeima Bureau has received a signature withdrawn from Member Edgars Tatars for this request. In that case, the request has been withdrawn from the agenda and is not to be examined. The section below is entitled ‘Review of draft decisions’. Draft decision “On Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and Proliferation” (No. (872/Lp13) at the Saeima sitting, from 11 February 2021 to 18 February 2021.’ Please call me! Please, let's vote! For - 77, for - no, for - 1. Draft decision supported. The next item is the examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Voters’ Register”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission – Member Inga Goldberga. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U71	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, The Commission of State Administration and Local Government has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Voters’ Register”, which has been declared urgent and is leading to the second, final reading of the Saeima. This draft law, which provides for technical amendments, is related to the amendments adopted on 17 December 2020 in the Law on Elections of City Council and District Council of the Republic and provides practical possibilities for voters residing abroad to participate in municipal elections by voting by post. No proposals have been received for the second reading. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support to be given to the draft law on Amendments to the Voters' Register Act at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U72	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! Colleagues, we will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Voters’ Register” in the second, final, reading! Please, let's vote! For - 88, for - 1, for - 1. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Edwin Šnore. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U73	Hello, dear colleagues! See the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia” (No. 740/Lp13). Three proposals were received for the third reading. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U74	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U75	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabrik. Provision shall be made for the right to provide extended first aid to landguards who have received an internationally accredited training programme for the care of victims of the battle. From last year you can learn such a program in Latvia and get a corresponding certificate for three years. The Commission has supported this. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U76	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U77	3. - Commission proposal. It is envisaged to rule out the entry into force of the law, which was originally defined as 1 February. The Commission supported it. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U78	And Members also support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U79	I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U80	Please call me! Please, we will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Land Guards” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Military Service Law’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Edwin Šnore. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U81	See the draft law “Amendments to the Military Service Law” (No. 739/Lp13). Five proposals were received to the third reading. All were supported by the Commission without debate. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Pabriks on first aid providers, analogous to his proposal in the pending draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Land Guard”. The Commission has supported this. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U82	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U83	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U84	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U85	3. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. Editable. Supported by the Commission. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U86	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U87	4. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. Editable. Supported by the Commission. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U88	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U89	And 5. - The Commission's own proposal. It is envisaged to exclude the entry into force of the law, which was initially 1 February. Supported by the Commission. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U90	Please call me! Dear colleagues, we will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Military Service Law at third reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. We will continue to look at the agenda with the draft law “Amendment to the insolvency law”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Aldis Gobzems. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U91	Colleagues, we work with the draft law “Amendment to the insolvency law” (No. 803/Lp13). When examining the draft law “Amendment to the insolvency law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers with the relevant number, the Legal Commission decided to support the draft law and asked to approve it at first reading in the Saeima sitting. The nature of the draft law. The purpose of the draft law “Amendment to the insolvency law” is to align the provisions of the insolvency law with those of the draft law “Segitized Bond Law” in order to ensure the consistency of the legal system, and in fact it is one amendment directly related to these covered bonds. Please confirm at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U92	Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! Dear colleagues, we will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Solvency” at first reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U93	The deadline for submitting proposals is two weeks, 25 February it shall meet.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U94	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 25 February. Thank you. Draft Act ‘Amendment to the Law on Out-of-court Recovery of Debt’, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Aldis Gobzems. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U95	So, colleagues, we are working on the draft law on the law on out-of-court recovery of debts (No. 804/Lp13). When examining the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on Out-of-court Recovery of Debt”, the Legal Commission decided to support it and asked to support it at the first reading of the Saeima. The purpose of the amendment is an analogue to the draft law which has just been voted on. These are related laws. It is therefore in fact related to the same draft law on covered bonds which is being examined by the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U96	Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! Please vote in favour of the draft law on the law on the out-of-court recovery of debts! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U97	This draft law, too, is two weeks. That is 25 February, the deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading... prior to the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U98	Thank you. Deadline for submission of proposals - 25 February. Draft law “Amendments to the Land Books Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Aldis Gobzems. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U99	Legal Commission examining draft law “Amendments to Land Registers Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 805/Lp13), decided to support it and to direct it to the first reading in the Parliamentary sitting. This draft law, like the previous one, also applies to the same issue in order to align the regulations of the Land Register Law with those of the draft law “Segitized Bonds Law”. Supported by the Legal Commission. On behalf of the Commission, please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U100	Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! Colleagues, please vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Land Books Act at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. First-reading law supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U101	The deadline for submitting proposals before the second reading is also an analogue - two weeks, that is, until 25 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U102	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 25 February this year. Next on the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U103	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Colleagues! In its meeting of February 2, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention has discussed draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Land Guard” (No. 784/Lp13) at second reading. Five proposals have been received. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Since the place of execution of the Land Guard Service may not only be the Land Guard Unit, but also the unit of the regular forces of the National Armed Forces, Article 1 of the draft law provides for amending the second paragraph of Section 4 of the Law on Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia by adding an indication that the agreement on service in the Land Guard may also be concluded by authorised commanders of the National Armed Forces Commander. Currently, on the extension of fixed-term contracts, Earthguard units and landguards are consuming significant resources, and in order to reduce this administrative burden, it is more efficient to concentrate resources on the sustainable development of the Earthguard. It is necessary to waive the five-year term limit of service agreement on Earthguard. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that the conclusion of the contract for the service at Landguard for an indefinite period of time is in fact not possible, as the term of the contract is limited by the maximum age set for the Landguard. In particular, Section 28 of the Law provides that the maximum age of a landguard is 55 years. The draft law now aims to increase it to 60 years. In view of the above, the third paragraph of Section 4 of the Law is also clarified, providing that in future the contract for the service at the Earthguard will be concluded up to the maximum age set by the Landguard service. The fourth paragraph of Section 4 of the Law is also excluded as, by clarifying the term of the contract for the service at Landsards, the extension clause, which until now has been linked to a five-year period, loses its meaning. The above amendments will not affect the procedure and frequency of organising the health condition, physical fitness, criminality and other regular inspections of the landguards. The Commission supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U104	And Members also support. Members are in favour. Proposal 2, Mr. Bergmanis! Please, proposal 2!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U105	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. That clarification provides for the synchronisation of the regulation contained in Article 29 of the Law with the amendments provided for in Section 4(1) and (2) of the Law, taking into account that the Commanders of the National Armed Forces, authorised commanders, will be able to conclude contracts for the service in the Land Guard and should have the right to terminate these contracts on their own initiative in the cases referred to in Section 29(3) of the Law. Section 29 of the Law should also be supplemented by regulation for the case where, after termination of the contract for the service at Landsards, the landguard concludes a contract for the professional service. To reduce the bureaucratic burden, Article 29(4.1) provides that if a former landguard enters the professional service within one month of the termination of the contract on the Earth service, he does not only have to reimburse the training expenses, but also does not have to return the material and technical resources at his disposal, as he can continue to use them in the professional service. This proposal is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U106	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U107	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Associated with the right of the former landguard to wear a uniform, also performing tasks of the Earthguard veterans. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U108	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U109	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is a editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U110	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U111	5. - a proposal from the Minister of Defence, Mr Arta Pabriks. There is a clarification. The need for Article 9 of the draft law to ensure a gradual transition to a new contract on the arrangements for the conclusion of the Landguard service. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U112	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U113	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U114	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Land Guards” at second reading! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U115	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 25 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U116	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 25 February this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Consumer Protection”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U117	Consequently, the First-reading Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission has examined and supported the draft law "Amendment to the Law on Consumer Protection". This draft law provides for the approximation of the provisions of the Consumer Rights Protection Law with those of the draft law “Segated Bond Law” in order to ensure consistency of the common national legal system. There is particularly little to say in this regard. On behalf of the Commission, please support at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U118	Thank you for the call. Ladies and gentlemen, we will vote in favour of the draft law on consumer protection law at first reading! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U119	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 18 February. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U120	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 18 February this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ralph Nemiro. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U121	Good afternoon, honourable chairman of the Saeima sitting, honourable colleagues! Thus, at the meeting of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, we examined the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection" (No. 744/Lp13). These amendments provide, in principle, for two cases. One relates to students and credit opportunities for studies, thus facilitating the rules for advertising. The other is, in fact, the transposition of the regulation, which concerns the protection of the collective interests of consumers and the delegation of those rights to the Consumer Centre. I therefore call on the Commission to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U122	Thank you. Please call me! Ladies and gentlemen, we will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Consumer Rights"! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U123	The deadline for submitting proposals is 25 February this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U124	Thank you. So the deadline for the proposals is 25 February this year. Honourable Members! The Saeima Bureau has received a request from Member Raivja Dzintars, Krišjānis Feldman, Anda Chakša, Marija Golubeva and Ritvars Jansons to exclude from the draft agenda ‘Amendments to the Saeima Election Law’. Please enable a section on the progress of the sitting. Members have not applied to speak. Then, honourable Members... ( Milestones.) No, I'm sorry. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Are you going to talk about or against? Mr. Valaiņš, are you going to talk about it or 'no'?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U125	A little bit of precision: on which draft law “Amendments to Saeima Election Law” is currently being discussed?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U126	No 320/Lp13.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U127	Yes, I will talk about this, however, on the agenda of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U128	So “for”. ( Internouncing call.) Please, name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U129	Colleagues! The examination of this issue is, of course, important above all from the point of view of the need for this type of amendment to be dealt with in good time and within a reasonable time and for them to enter into force a year before the parliamentary elections. These amendments have been tabled initially by the opposition and there was also a very wide-ranging debate in the Saeima. As a result of the discussions, the Commission agreed to continue its work on this draft law and to support it at first reading with a view to making some kind of adjustments to the second reading. If the signatories want to take this matter out of the agenda, I would like to hear as a minimum some motivation, why it is necessary. The debate in the Saeima committee was, in my opinion, quite broad, involving a very wide range of people and looking at this issue from different sides. The Commission has decided to look at this issue today. However, I would like to hear just one argument. Well, what was there was Raivis Dzintars, Anda Chakša, who has signed up to this question... What are the reasons why you are not ready to see the bill today, and which will change in a week or when... when it will return to the agenda. That is why I would also like to clarify - for a while this issue is being taken out? This is not clear at this point in time. The question is very serious. If you are not ready for this debate today, I understand you, but I would also like to hear some reason why this issue is excluded from the agenda today. Once again - the Commission had, in my opinion, a wide-ranging debate so that this issue could be voted on at first reading... which was also supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U130	Dear colleagues, No one has applied to speak about this application. In that case, we must vote in favour of the tabled proposal for this draft law on Amendments to the Law on Elections to the Saeima (No. 320/Lp13) to be removed from the agenda. Please, let's vote! For - 55, for - 12, for - 17. Draft law has been removed from the agenda. Next on the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Saeima Election Law” (No. 904/ Lp 13), first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Viktors Valainis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U131	Yes, colleagues! This is the second draft amendment to the Saeima Election Law (No. 904/Lp13). The draft law is submitted from the Ministry of Justice, and it is in compliance with the Law on Administrative Territories and Accommodations... where appropriate all ministries, according to their own discretion, prepare specifications for their area of responsibility to comply with the Law on Administrative Territories and settlements. This draft law contains very technical amendments, where terminology is changed according to the new Law on Administrative Territories and settlements. One such significant change is in relation to electoral areas - Latgale and Vidzeme... where there is one county, where however, after the Saeima vote, boundaries changed... what's coming... the stage comes to Rēzekne County. There are no other major changes to these amendments. These are technical amendments. I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U132	Thank you. Please call me! Ladies and gentlemen, we will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Saeima Election Law (No. 904/Lp13) at first reading! Please, let's vote! For - 83, for - no, for - 1. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U133	The proposals are due to expire on 18 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U134	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 18 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Education Law”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Reinis Znotiņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U135	Yes, hello, colleagues, again! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” (No. 544/Lp13). It is this draft law that is more related to the law... defining the quality of education, the elements of quality of education and the areas of responsibility. I want to tell my parliamentary colleagues that a special sub-committee was also set up that worked on these issues... either, not a sub-commission, but yes, such a sub-session, below, below... Let's say, a format where both university professionals and education experts from international organisations worked, and these proposals were developed in cooperation with the experts. 1. - Asheraden's proposal. Provision is made for the addition of points 7.1 and 30 of Article 1, which in principle define the quality of education and the quality assurance system for public education. It is partly supported by the Commission and included in sections 2 and 6 below. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U136	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U137	2. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Article 1 shall be supplemented by point 7.1 defining the quality of education. The definition in principle prevents the educational process from being inclusive and requires it to be able to achieve high-quality results according to the goals set by society and set by the State. Determines what constitutes the state system that ensures quality and development of education and as the founder of the educational institution, as well as the implementer of the education process ensures achievement of goals. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U138	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U139	3. - Asheraden's proposal. The title of Article 3 shall be amended accordingly. Partly supported by the Commission, included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U140	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U141	4. - Asheraden's proposal. The first paragraph of Article 3 shall be revised accordingly. Partly supported by the Commission, included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U142	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U143	5. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Quite a substantive proposal. It is stated that every citizen of Latvia has the right to quality and inclusive education. This is a clarification which, quite fundamentally, changes their emphasis in terms of quality. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U144	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U145	6. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Provision is made for supplementing the law with Article 4.1, which clarifies the national framework for quality assurance in education, which aims to plan, achieve, maintain, monitor and continuously improve the quality of education. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U146	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U147	7. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, Reinis Znotiņš. It is envisaged to exclude paragraph 7.1 of Article 14 which gives the Cabinet of Ministers the right to establish, reorganise and eliminate state education institutions and state education support institutions on a proposal from the Ministry of Education and Science or other ministries. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U148	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U149	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It is planned to supplement Article 14 with 8.1 and other points laying down the duty of the Cabinet of Ministers to approve education quality objectives in the guidelines on education development, to establish activities and requirements for ensuring the quality of education and to approve the annual quality assessment report. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U150	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U151	9. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Article 1 of the draft law is to be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U152	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U153	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, Reinis Znotiņš. It is planned to clarify in editorial terms paragraph 23 of Article 14 which provides that the Cabinet of Ministers shall grant the right to determine the types, criteria and extent of scholarships for the learners in higher education programmes. This proposal also results from comments from the Ministry of Justice and the State Audit Office that such criteria are necessary. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U154	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U155	11. - Mr. Wuzan's proposal. It is envisaged to add a new point 1.1 to Article 15, on the basis of the unjustified withdrawal of individual cooperation partners and the repetition of rules. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U156	Let's start a debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U157	Hello, very respectable chair of the sitting! Hello, colleagues! I will talk about two of my interrelated proposals for this draft law - on this, 11 and also on the 16th proposal. The rapporteur has already mentioned that this draft law is now more focused on education quality issues. At first, however, it also included issues relating to the arrangements for the development and harmonisation of guidelines for the development of education. It is so that this draft law, driven by the Ministry of Education and Science, started its progress in the Saeima in January 2020, and the issue of the development of the new version of the guidelines for education development was topical at that time, so the Commission for Education, Culture and Science then divided this issue into a separate draft law and tried to resolve the issue of the guidelines for education development there. In general, it has to be said that, in the period since 2014, the question of the guidelines for the development of education, of what should be created and the order in which one of the most important strategic documents in the field of education should be approved - this issue, as a hot potato, has been trampled from one hand to another. There was a period when this document was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, then there was a period when it was approved by the Saeima. So now, since 10 September 2020, the Cabinet of Ministers again has the prerogative to approve one of the most important strategic documents in the field of education. Thus, this procedure stipulates that the guidelines for the development of education are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers after the document has been accepted by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. I personally have no objections to such a procedure, and I also proposed it in my original version of the proposal for a second reading of this draft law. At the same time, however, I would like to point out that several other proposals, which I have already adopted, have been accepted, including that the development of guidelines for education should take into account the labour market forecasts drawn up by the Ministry of Economics and a few other cases. However, in my opinion, because of the urgency of these specific legislative amendments promoted by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, some of the things that affect the development of guidelines for education did not find a place in these amendments. I will try to argue more about it today, too. In my view, the version of the Education Law, which is currently in force, is unbalanced in the sense that there is information about what the end result should be this document - the guidelines for development of education - but quite incomplete in the law is reflected in the mechanism of how the state and its education system is going to be attached to this important document. There are two things here which I have in my proposal of 11, and which relate to what procedures the central authority responsible for drawing up the guidelines for development of education - the Ministry of Education and Science - should cooperate in the process of drawing up the guidelines for development of education, and not just in the process of implementing them, when they have already been approved. Such cooperation of the Ministry of Education and Science with all the persons involved in the implementation of the education process shall be provided for in paragraph 2.2 of Section 15 of this Law within the framework of the education development guidelines already approved, but cooperation and coordination with these persons is not directly provided for in the process of drafting and approving the education development guidelines. It all therefore depends on the nature of the... the extent to which the coordination of the guidelines for the development of education developed by the Ministry of Education and Science will be carried out by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science before final approval by the Cabinet of Ministers. This is about aligning the education development guidelines with other ministries under whose authority or subordination educational institutions are located. At present, they are both the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health, but it is also about the fact that the coordination of education development guidelines should be carried out with the Latvian Municipal Union before they reach the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It should be borne in mind here that the vast majority of general education institutions are municipal education institutions. It would be disproportionate to require that the guidelines for the development of this education be aligned with each of the municipalities, but that they be coordinated...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U158	Mr. Wucaan, I'm sorry, your time is up. Your time is up. I closed the debate. This proposal has been put to the vote. Please call me! Colleagues, please vote in favour of 11. - That's Mr. Wuzan's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 31, for - 40, for - 4. The proposal was rejected. Dear colleagues, We will continue to look at this draft law after a break. Only the registration of the presence of Members that has taken place. Thank you. See you at 13: 30 a.m. and keep working. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U159	Dear Members, honourable Members, We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. Agenda item: Review of draft laws We examine the draft law “Amendments to the Education Act”, second reading. Colleagues! I must inform you that the Members of the Saeima, Vucanas, Kučinskis, Dūklavs, Bergmanis and Tavars have made a request to the Parliamentary Bureau under Rule 142 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure to vote on proposal 11 of this bill, because the Members in the FAO Group were technically unable to vote on this proposal. Colleagues! So we must first of all take a vote on this. Please enable the procedure mode. There can also be one Member to speak about, one to speak against. No one has applied to speak. Please vote on whether the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Education Act’ (No. (544/Lp13) Proposal 11 must be put to the vote! Please vote mode! For - 54, for - 12, for - 2. So we will vote on proposal 11 of the draft law. So it was before the break... on behalf of the Commission, the name of Member Rainis Znotiņš. Would you like to add something else to this proposal, because the debate has already been closed?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U160	Yes, well, this proposal was widely debated, the procedure for approving the guidelines - both the guidelines of the Ministry of Education and Science and other ministries - was compared, and it was concluded that the guidelines of the Ministry of Education and Science are also being agreed with the various partners and that the process is much longer. Consequently, without a debate, the Commission decided not to support this yet additional bureaucratic burden - to bring more together the various institutions, as this could lead to excessive red tape and delays in processes. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U161	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - The Commissioner's proposal by John Wuzan! Please vote mode! For - 26, for - 47, for - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U162	12. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It is planned to supplement Article 15 of the Law with 18.1 and other points which, within the competence of the Ministry of Education and Science, determine the planning, monitoring, risk assessment and implementation and development of digital tools for analysis, as well as the preparation and submission of the annual report on quality evaluation of education to the Cabinet of Ministers for approval. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U163	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U164	13. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, Reinis Znotiņš. It is envisaged to exclude the second sentence of paragraph 26 of Section 15 of the Law, which determines the competence of the Ministry of Education and Science to harmonise the recruitment and dismissal of heads of municipal education administrations. This proposal reduces bureaucracy and really reduces unnecessary bureaucratic involvement, thus making the process more transparent, faster and more efficient. The Commission supports the call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U165	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U166	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It is planned to supplement the third paragraph of Article 17 with points 1.1, 1.2 and 1.3 which determine the development strategy of education in the territory of the Republican city municipality and municipality, the provision of support for quality assurance of educational institutions, the collection and analysis of information on quality of education in their territory, the provision of quality and accessibility of education in their territory, as well as organization of methodological work. This proposal was also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U167	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U168	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It provides for the wording of paragraph 2 of the third paragraph of Article 17, which does not require the municipality of the Republic and the municipality of the municipality to coordinate with the Ministry of Education and Science, as well as the recruitment and dismissal of heads of the institutions of the ministries of the relevant sector. It has also been done to cut red tape by relying more on the municipality to deal with such issues. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U169	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U170	16. - Mr. Wuzan's proposal. As Mr Wuzana has already explained, the proposal relates to the previously unsupported proposal 11. This one also talks about the arrangements for harmonising the guidelines for the development of education. This proposal is not supported by the Commission, as is 11th.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U171	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U172	17. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It shall be provided to supplement the third paragraph of Article 20 by paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 which, within the competence of the State Education Quality Service, grant accreditation of general and vocational education institutions and programmes, assessment of professional activities of heads of institutions, development of guidelines for quality assurance in general and vocational education, as well as preparation of an annual report on quality of education. This proposal was also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U173	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U174	18. - Asheraden's proposal. Article 20.1 provides for the addition of the law. The Commission has partially supported and included 6. - the Commission's proposal, which we supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U175	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U176	19. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Provision is made for supplementing the law with Article 20.1 on the competence of the Academic Information Centre on quality issues in higher education. So monitor this quality, monitor and carry out other duties related to it as well. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U177	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U178	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, Reinis Znotiņš. It is envisaged to supplement the first paragraph of Article 22 with the second sentence, which provides for the approval of the statute of the founder of a state educational establishment to be performed by the ministry under whose authority the educational establishment has been delegated. The Commission is also in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U179	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U180	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Article 29 of the Law, which, in the competence of the founder of the educational institution, grants provision of support for qualitative implementation and improvement of the education process, organization of methodological work and improvement of the professional competence of teachers in cooperation with the educational institution. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U181	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U182	22. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Article 30 shall be supplemented by Part 3.5 on the responsibility of the head of an educational establishment to develop and develop the quality system of an educational establishment and the provision of an annual self-assessment of the institution. It is also essential to really strengthen quality education in all schools, and so the Commission is also in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U183	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U184	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It is planned to state paragraph 2 of Section 31, third paragraph, of the law in the wording which requires the Board of an educational institution to follow the proposals of educators, educators and their parents, providing recommendations for improvement of the institution’s performance and quality. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U185	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U186	24. - Proposal by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, Reis Znotiņš, on the transitional provisions of amendments to the law. The Commission has partially supported and included 25. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U187	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U188	25. - the proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science on the transitional provisions of amendments to the law related to the previous proposal, i.e. the exclusion of point 7.1, which determines the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers for the approval of the regulations of the state educational institution. The amendments shall enter into force on 1 October 2021. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U189	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U190	And the last proposal, colleagues. 26. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Provision is made for the exclusion of Article 2 of the draft law on the addition of transitional provisions. This was also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U191	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U192	I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U193	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Education". Please vote mode! For - 80, for - 3, for - 1. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U194	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 25 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U195	No further proposals have therefore been received. The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading of this draft law is 25 February this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Road Traffic Law, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U196	(I can't hear.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U197	Mr. Riekstin, we hear you very badly.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U198	Can you hear me now?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U199	It's still very quiet. Maybe you can get closer to the microphone... or a stronger microphone.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U200	Now?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U201	It's better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U202	At second reading, we will consider the draft law on Road Traffic Law (No. 792/Lp13). The draft law was designed to promote road safety by supplementing the Road Traffic Act with rules that would apply to the inclusion of electric shocks in road traffic. Similarly, the draft law (not to be heard.) ... definitions of a bicycle, a motor cycle, a tricycle and a quadricycle, and arrangements for the training of a bicycle and a vehicle. 18 proposals were submitted to the second reading. 1. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Gerhard. It provides for the addition of the terms ‘interchangeable towed equipment’ and ‘interchangeable technology unit’ as used in the legislation. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U203	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U204	2. - The legal commission's proposal. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U205	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U206	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. It is envisaged to clarify the term ‘quadricycle’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U207	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U208	4. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Gerhard. Provision shall be made for the registration of interchangeable towed machinery and interchangeable technological units. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U209	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U210	5. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Gerhard. Rules shall be laid down for the registration of tractors. The Commission was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U211	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U212	6. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. It is intended to prevent the right to drive and to obtain a licence where such restrictions apply to a person in the United Kingdom. The proposal has been partially supported and included in the Commission7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U213	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U214	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is envisaged to exclude the right to drive and to obtain a licence where such restrictions apply to a person in the United Kingdom by means of a logical procedure for listing areas. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U215	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U216	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. It is envisaged to specify the category of driving licences for quadricycles. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U217	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U218	9. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. It is planned to reduce the age limit to 18 years for the acquisition of categories C and CE in the case provided for by the Road Transport Act. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U219	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U220	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. It is planned to reduce the age limit to 20 years for the acquisition of categories D and DE in the case provided for by the Road Transport Act. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U221	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U222	11. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. It is provided that the road manager may, on the basis of a delegation contract concluded with the State Police, ensure the installation of technical means and the detection of malfunctions without stopping the vehicle. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U223	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Butan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U224	Hello, dear colleagues! So this draft law, including this proposal, is quite important for our transport sector. In particular, this proposal is that in future, the road manager and the owner will be able to deploy on their roads and streets technical control devices to monitor road traffic. In particular, this is necessary first and foremost to increase road safety both on public roads and on municipal roads, and the difference from the previous arrangements is that in the past only the State was able to deploy controls on the streets and roads. The new procedure will provide that the municipality is also entitled to deploy a control device on its streets. It will be more topical for the big cities, such as Riga, to prevent, for example, black points from driving to red traffic lights, thus improving traffic safety. I call on my colleagues to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U225	So Mr Bhutan, like the Commission, calls for support for the proposal and did not ask for a vote. No vote required. Or, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Riekstin, on Amendment 11... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U226	Supported by the Commission. Yeah, thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U227	Supported by the Commission. Members support 11. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Fare Linkait.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U228	12. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. It provides for the alignment of a driving licence issued in the United Kingdom to the EU or a driving licence issued in a Member State of the European Free Trade Association. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U229	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U230	13. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Gürgen. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U231	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U232	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Gürgen. Provides for the addition of stopping and parking rules with road sign No. 529 The proposal was partly supported by the Commission and included in proposal 15.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U233	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U234	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. Provision shall be made for editorial corrections to the rules of stopping and standing violations. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U235	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Butan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U236	So briefly on this proposal. As a result of the codification, we lost one particular opportunity to punish drivers for unauthorized parking on certain road signs in the translation. This lack was noticed by the people and addressed us directly. I wanted to express my thanks to the citizens who have noticed this error and, accordingly, with this proposal, we are correcting this error. I call for support. And thank you once again to the citizens.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U237	Thank you. I closed the debate. Mr Bhutan did not ask for this proposal to be put to the vote, joined the Commission's support for the proposal. Mr Riekstins, on behalf of the Commission, would you like to add something else?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U238	The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U239	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U240	17. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Gerhard...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U241	16! 16 now, was 15.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U242	Yes, 16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U243	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U244	17. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Gerhard. It is envisaged to specify the time limits for the transitional provisions. The proposal was partly supported by the Commission and included in proposal 18.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U245	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U246	18. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is envisaged to specify the time limits for the transitional provisions. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U247	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U248	I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U249	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Road Traffic Law". Please vote mode! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U250	The deadline for submitting proposals is 25 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U251	There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for the third reading of the proposals is 25 February this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Rihards Kozlovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U252	Dear President, Dear colleagues, At its meeting on 26 January, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers submitted by five Members. The most important element of the draft law is the imposition of additional requirements on managers of alternative investment funds as well as on the Financial and Capital Market Commission. As pointed out by the draft law, such requirements arise from the implementation of the recommendations of the Financial Transactions Task Force or FATF for Latvia, as well as from the Moneyval Report of 22 January 2020... which points out that there is insufficient regulation directly for alternative investment fund managers. The most important thing is that this draft law, therefore, is for managers to be subject, at the time of their initial registration as well as at the time of their amendment, to additional requirements that affect the identification of genuine beneficiaries, thus affecting the verification of the origin of the funds and, of course, questions of reputation. Consequently, such amendments were submitted, as the applicants pointed out, as a direct result of this Moneyval management report. At the meeting of the Commission, after hearing also the representative of the Ministry of Finance and the Commission on the Financial and Capital Market, the debate was followed by an appropriate vote (i.e. a total of five Members - in favour, three against and five abstentions), these amendments... More precisely, the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U253	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U254	Hello, colleagues! Yes, I just wanted to remind you a little bit that this is in fact the same draft law that we rejected first in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission and then in the Saeima. It was in October. So once, it was already rejected. Basically, five ministries.... Five Members have, on their own initiative, actually changed one digit in that whole bill and submitted it again. And yes, I am pleased that the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission rejected this bill, because basically nothing more than increasing bureaucracy and, let us say, increasing the supervisory fee for these investment funds is not there. There was also some kind of case at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. The question was asked: why should these investment funds now increase the monitoring fee for supervision from the FCTC three times? Three times?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, The answer from the FCTC was about, "Well, we're going to have a three-fold increase in bureaucracy and paperwork." All right, right? Just so that people understand: Moneyval and FATF have not said in any of the recommendations that we need to increase the administrative burden for entrepreneurs, let us say, that we need to increase some amount of paper, the amount of bureaucracy for our entrepreneurs, and so on. This has nothing to do with the Moneyval recommendations. Unfortunately, this draft law also provides for this. So that I call, of course, to reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U255	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Rihard Kozlovski.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U256	Yes, colleagues, this time on behalf of the applicants. Looking, however, at this draft law that we have tabled, in fact, but also in agreement with what Mr Eglitis said, that we have already seen a similar draft law in the past year that was rejected... However, considering that this initiative does not, however, come from perhaps the wish of Members to impose more red tape or, in my opinion, from the Ministry of Finance, it is quite clearly stated that, in their report, Moneyval has indicated that we do not have enough regulation, when it comes to the role of managers in this draft law, in line with the FATF recommendations. As an example, it is a fund that can actually be managed... The manager of such a fund may be managed up to 500 million. And so at the moment, with the registration of only such a manager, without imposing on him an obligation to identify the true beneficiary, which may also be the case for a substantial holding of 25 percent, we are talking about hundreds of millions of euros. And, of course, we think it would be right to find out the true beneficiary in such commercial structures. But, well, I'm probably not going to repeat. However, I would like to ask Members in general to reflect and support our draft law, because it is logical here, of course, that the Financial and Capital Markets Commission, which is being financed, of course, from the sector, is increasing its workload. In the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, representatives of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission said that this increase of the amount they need to invest is being assessed, because of the increase in the volume of work, of course. As a whole, I would ask for support for this draft law and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U257	The floor in the debate is for Mr Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U258	Yes, colleagues, well, I cannot fully agree with Mr Kozlovsky. Mr Kozlovsky said that up to 500 million could manage such funds. I would say that yes - up to, but in Latvia mostly these funds are strong, much smaller. There is no one in the vicinity of 500 million, not even 100 million in the vicinity of any fund as far as I know. At least those where public money is invested or European Union money. So against the size of the funds... The funds are usually five million, 30 million, in Latvia they are managed by a team of three people. Then imposing on them three times more bureaucracy is totally disproportionate. And no one needs it. What Mr Kozlovsky said, which the Ministry of Finance has probably used in his argument to find out the true beneficiary, is already required. This is actually required at the moment. Even in companies where these funds invest money, it requires who is the true beneficiary, the data on all shareholders, and so on. That's what's going on. This is simply a long-standing fight for the Ministry of Finance. They see that, at the expense of these funds, they can increase their revenues, they can increase some of the capacity of the FCMC, and they therefore impose these additional rules. We have rejected them in the end, fortunately. But this does not in any way improve the management of these funds, nor does it improve other things. And it is essential to understand what these funds are doing. They are not any mystical funds, where they simply hold money and so on, they are funds (mainly in Latvia) that invest directly in new companies, fast growing companies. And it's the so-called venture capital. This venture capital is essential in the past for the Latvian state to grow our slippery, our... our other big companies. It is simply for us that this venture capital has been much lower than in other countries. If we want such risk capital to develop... which can invest in our own companies, so that our own companies do not have to travel to the United Kingdom or move to Estonia to invest in them, so that they do not have to place an unreasonable burden on these funds either. When we talked to several fund managers earlier, there were funds that pointed out that only because of this insane additional burden imposed in Latvia (and at the time we reduced it), they had moved to Estonia, where this burden is not being imposed. They have all the same FATF and (not heard.) ... and all the rules must be complied with, and no such additional burden is imposed, because these basic rules - they are already complying with them. These basic rules - to show the true beneficiaries and so on - are all respected. Therefore, there is no logic for this current proposal of the Ministry of Finance, with the exception of building some of its official capacity at the expense of the fact that perhaps again some venture capital funds will move away from Latvia, Latvian companies will have less access to venture growth capital. Therefore, I really call for a wise and blind view of the Ministry of Finance only because it is the Ministry of Finance, but for it to be critical and definitely reject the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U259	Thank you. I closed the debate. Mr. Kozlovsky, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U260	Well, on behalf of the Commission, I can only remind you that the Commission had rejected this bill by voting, as I said.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-11-PT13-2191-U261	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers! Please vote mode! On - 34, against - 46, refraining from - 2. The draft law at first reading is not supported. Dear colleagues, We have reviewed the agenda of the first remote emergency session on 11 February 2021. Only registration of participants. But I would also like to remind you that, 15 minutes after the end of this meeting, the Bureau has convened the second remote extraordinary meeting with the announced agenda on 11 February. So the next sitting is at 14.20 a.m. Just registration. It's been a success. I'm closing the sitting.
