ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U1	Honourable Members! We will begin the second remote emergency sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 15 November this year. On the agenda is the examination of the annual state budget and related draft laws in the second, final, reading. Before the sitting, Members Evija Papule and Aldis Gobzems have applied for the procedure. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U2	Thank you, Madam President of the Saeima. It is known that although there is power and desire to manage everything totalitarianly, it is 13. The Saeima, if you look at this three-year period, has almost not worked at all and constantly fails to fulfil the number “100” set in the Constitution. It is clear that the ban on working remotely, independently of it, is an interoperable certificate or no interoperable certificate, is not a step for courageous people, rather a bold step for a person is not to participate in lies. At this point in time, however, I call on those Members who do not have an interoperable certificate or who have not shown it, to work, because the sittings of the Saeima take place at a distance, so there is no danger to the health of others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U3	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U4	I would like to emphasise one more thing, and this is the following thing. So all the laws, including budget law... It is absolutely clear that it can be challenged on this basis before the Constitutional Court and, most likely, it will also be challenged. Number one. Number two. It is absolutely clear that those Members, 62 Members of the Saeima, who voted contrary to Article 1 of the Satversme and contrary to Article 5 of the Satversme, will have to reply legally one day. It is arranged in life, and there will be no grace, no jokes. This Saeima destroys a democratic state. In fact, a democratic state no longer exists from last week and this regime is criminal. Objective: the criminal regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U5	Okay, colleagues. Let's finally get to work. First of all, how we plan to work today. Dear colleagues, We plan a break of 15 minutes – from 12.00 to 12.15 – and an break of one hour – from 13.30 to 14.30. So the first break – 15 minutes – from 12.00 to 12.15, the second break – from 13.30 to 14.30. Dear colleagues, On the agenda – draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Management of Public Shares and Capital Companies”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U6	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The aim of this draft law is to establish a uniform regulation with private sector capital companies regarding the calculation, payment and presentation of corporate income tax in accounting, as well as to supplement the Cabinet of Ministers’ authorisation to determine dividends by extending it to other types of private sector companies. Two proposals have been received by the Commission. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Provision shall be made to exclude transitional provisions relating to dates of entry into force. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U7	(Sound rupture) ... Proposal submitted by the Legal Bureau So, again. We will vote in favour of 1. - The legal office's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U8	2. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The date of entry into force of the law shall be determined - February 1, 2022. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U9	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U10	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call for support to be given to the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U11	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Equity Shares and Corporate Governance” at second, final reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act’, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U12	See ‘Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act’ in the draft law. 19 proposals have been received by the Commission for this draft law. 1. - a proposal from Members Girgen, Papule, Dombrovsky and Pucken. It is envisaged to reduce VAT rates for books sold in electronic form. The proposal has been partly supported and included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U13	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U14	Madam President, colleagues. On the one hand, thank you for supporting the proposal. However, I must say that it is a little unforgivable that the government had forgotten such an essential thing as digital learning tools when making budgetary changes, especially in this law. More than a year ago, the Saeima adopted amendments to laws in the field of education, so that distance learning, using digital resources, is part of the normal learning process, so it is peculiar that this should be adopted with the amendment... justification. At the same time, our proposal is based on... includes almost all of the literature that would be required for training, including scientific literature, including fiction. On the one hand, it is surprising that you have forgotten these chapters in the next proposal, which partly incorporates our proposal. But in any case - not really forgiving, thinking about teaching literature, forgets what this Saeima, 13. The Saeima has already voted in support of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U15	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U16	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention not only to this - 1. - the proposal, but also 2. - the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers or specifically the proposal of the Minister of Culture Puntulis. It's the main difference, or... There are two differences between these two proposals. The first difference, of course, is the names of the applicants: for proposal 1 - members of the opposition, for the second - the Minister of Government. The second difference is that the word "including" is used in proposal 1, the word "including" is used in proposal 2. Here we see that the Cabinet of Ministers has an opinion, where Proposal 1... Proposal 1 has not been supported by the government, but Proposal 2 has been supported by the government. Since there are only two differences between these two proposals: ‘including’ or ‘including’, this means that there are only two possible reasons why our government has, in all its wisdom, supported one and decided not to support the other... or the first. So, either they're the applicants... Of course, given that our country still has a 'one law: one truth for all', I cannot believe that our government could support or not support any proposal, solely on the basis of what is the author of this proposal. In our country, with our government, this could not happen at all. That is why I reject this version right away, my fellow Members. We therefore have only one version of why the government did not support this - 1. - the proposal, and that is obviously the fact that, in the opinion of the government, the word 'including' is not as good as the word 'including'. In view of such a radical reaction - not to support, apparently the government believes that the word "including" will somehow mislead the public or those who will try to read and interpret this law. It is likely that in some near future we will expect a ban on the use of the word ‘including’ from the government, instead only the words ‘including’ may be used. It is possible that even the State Language Centre will be asked to control the use of the word “including” by the public, but only the words “including”. Colleagues, if you believe that such a government initiative or such a government position, the attitude towards the word ‘including’, should not allow the word ‘including’ to be left in Latvian and allowed to be used with the same rights... with the words ‘including’, I call on you to send such a signal to the government and to support proposal 1, but not to support proposal 2. Of course, the essence will not change, but we will send the government... The legislator will make it clear to the government that the wording “including” and the wording “including” can be used in Latvian, meaning the same and both wordings have the same right to be used in Latvian. And, my fellow Members, I would like to remind you once again that this sitting is organised in violation of Article 5 of the Satversme, which questions everything that is going on today - all the votes, all what it does from today 13. The Saeima. We work in violation of the Constitution, colleagues. I'm sorry. I call for the implementation of Article 5 of the Satversme to be ensured.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U17	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U18	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Today is a really big day - the adoption of the budget, and I hope for constructive work, including examining proposals, and perhaps the Saeima will make some changes to these draft laws and to these proposals. Unfortunately, this support has not been achieved by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, but perhaps something could change in the Saeima. Colleagues, on this proposal. Of course, proposals 1 and 2 are, by their very nature, absolutely the same, and when the members of the opposition... and thank the opposition Members who tabled this proposal for pointing out this problem, which the government has obviously seen, too, - the mistakes made during the preparation of the budget, that is to say, on these various digital materials that can be purchased... also reduced VAT rate - just like all books and other things. But, colleagues, I would like to point out, however, that value added tax is one of the largest sources of budgetary income, and yet... If we look at how our neighbours have acted... Currently, Latvia proposes to apply the reduced VAT rate only to books and digital reading materials, and to various other materials. I have a question - why? That was actually the only thing in this draft law... Why did it even open up? There's no one else in nature than here. In my view, the next proposals that have been tabled by the opposition, on which we will definitely also talk, show much more precisely the problems that should be addressed today in Latvia as regards where the burden should be reduced for citizens through tax policy, using the opportunities offered by VAT (value added tax) and the solutions proposed. At this point, of course, this proposal is welcome, but it is so profoundly symbolic. Mr Dombrovskis has already mentioned this change of words that is smiling. When the opposition points to an objective error, the government tries to pretend that they also understood and offered the same thing themselves, only by changing the order of words by using other words. Perhaps it would be appropriate for the speakers to argue here, but I would agree that it would be purely symbolic not to give partial support, but to support, by nature, at least one proposal from the opposition right at the beginning of the day, because the other proposals from the opposition, as I have followed the budget, did not really find hearing ears. We have a number of other Members' proposals that have found... We will certainly talk about them, but in this case, I think this is a political jealousy and it is wrong. Members have shown very precisely where the problem and ambition lies in the draft law tabled and in the government proposal that was proposed for correction, and this should be supported in contrast with the way the government has gone. In general, this draft law, I think... we will talk to other proposals... The other proposals, I think, are much more important and much more in line with today's situation, in which we are now... and what forms of support should be given to citizens through this tax. I therefore call on you to support this - 1. - a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U19	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U20	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima and dear colleagues! Finally, we have taken the look at the next year's budget. It is good that the day begins with good news, including the amendments to the Value Added Tax Act, where the proposal we are discussing is linked to the next proposal, agreed in the government by the Minister of Culture, agreed within the coalition, that the VAT rate for online expenditure will also be five per cent instead of the previous 12 per cent. I would remind you that the current text is that printed and online expenditure, such as books, currently accounts for 12 per cent of value added tax, but from next year it is set at five per cent. I need to remind you... And I would like to emphasise in general terms that budgeting is not a process where a single decision is made within the X hour and then, for example, in the executive and the Saeima, it is no longer amended. The fact that the Minister of Culture has also tabled this coalition proposal - it is a continuation of work, one of the budgetary adjustments that we in the Saeima will also see... By the way, all the language norms are met, and this is more about proposal 2, which includes proposal 1. I call for a strict follow-up to the decision made by the Members of the Commission on Budgets and Finance (Tax) on what is, after all, the recommended format of the budget, in this case also to follow closely, as the members of the Commission have voted. These are not by chance people who have gathered together in the commission, they are people with some experience, perhaps many of them in this term of office, this is already the fourth budget that they are looking at. It is therefore very regrettable that a vote is required on this proposal, as it is indeed included in part, objectively, in proposal 2. In the absence of a vote, Members would agree with this committee's proposal - partly to support it, to include it in proposal 2, but, as a result of a vote, call for a 'no' vote in accordance with the procedure, or - for those who tend to abstain for a lot - to abstain... and then - to support proposal 2, which is also linguistically correct... Thus, in line with the coalition's wishes, from next year onwards, will ensure a five-interest rate for books, including online publications, also for the press and for the rest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U21	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U22	Dear colleagues, I would disagree with what my colleague, Mr Feldman, said, because I had the opportunity to take part in the meetings of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) and I would not like to say that the government has tried to improve something in this draft law or the coalition has tried to improve something in this draft law. This specific proposal - that is an objective, clearly visible error on the part of the applicant, which the opposition Members proposed to correct, because it is absolutely clear to everyone who is studying this bill that it is likely that they would have forgotten to add such an additional explanation. In the Commission as a whole, all these weeks when the budget was being examined, unfortunately, it was that most of the proposals related to sectors... There was no sectoral expert who could answer Members' questions, Members' concerns, Members' proposals, even though he asked to explain why something could not be supported. There was a marathon led by the chairman of the commission (a job for him), but the other eight, all of them together, I wouldn't say that I had a great deal of research into something. It was, yes, coalitions... you have rightly said a coalition vote. And that's all. More than that, there was nothing in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission; there were only coalition votes that will reflect, I think, today. Therefore, thank you, Mr Feldman, for taking part in the debate. And I call on you to do this more actively and to explain the substance of future proposals, at least to try to explain why one or the other proposal has not been supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U23	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U24	Good morning! Thank you. Reflecting on what Mr Feldman said, and generally on the work in the context of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission meetings, when looking at the budget package for next year, I draw attention to one detail that is, in fact, very important. Indeed, in one of the first meetings of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, ministerial officials did not even consider it necessary... to take part in second reading and answer Members' questions. And why was that important? This was important precisely because, for example, proposal 1 is not supported, proposal 2, which is similar, is supported. And then the questions arise. But in general, what does that point to? That officials or representatives of the responsible ministry do not attend the meetings of the commission and do not reply. That's the attitude. And that is not the attitude of the Members of the position, but of the Members of the opposition. The opposition members did not participate in government meetings or working groups that decided and considered how the budget was distributed over the coming years. All residents of Latvia pay taxes. All those who voted in favour of the 'yes' position and those who voted in favour of the 'yes' position. But proposals to distribute money - support only those provided by the position. And in this case, it is precisely the moment that did not support the proposal put forward by the opposition that sounds rather ridiculous and illogical, because we have the same goal: to make life in Latvia more qualitative, better and that budgetary resources are spent as efficiently and efficiently as possible, in the interests of society as a whole, not in the interests of positions on the part of Members. The position gave a very generous allocation of quotas - plus minus... On average, every political power in the position was 400 thousand euros... cash for each of the lots represented in the heading. The proposals made by the opposition Members practically did not support them at second reading at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, which is regrettable. In this case, I ask my colleagues to support this proposal because it demonstrates the existence of basic respect for Members in the opposition and against their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U25	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U26	Dear President and colleagues of the Saeima. Thank you for the debate, but, at the same time, probably the Head of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy should not qualify for a new... On the contrary, it is possible that the State Language Centre or a language specialist or expert should be involved in the meetings of the Cabinet of Ministers, who could tell you which name to use or not to use. But in any case on a new Endzelin you have to... Mr. Feldman, I don't think he's gonna shine. And yet - and I understand that the error must be corrected - and I am glad that the error will be corrected, but in any case again - Mr President of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, a courageous step of a man is not to participate in lies, and we do not need to defend what is obvious. But in any case, I am glad that the digital tools will also be used in the learning process - a bit cheaper - although, of course, I regret the inclusion of maps (and it is clear why - to some extent, the Ordeans' capital may have shown), but there is no scientific literature and the things that really need to be taught. But in any case, I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U27	The name of Member Eric Pucen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U28	Hello, dear colleagues! Here we see this envy from the government, and they havetened to submit their proposal, understanding their error, so that there is no support for any of the opposition's proposals. But it is a great pleasure that overall, according to the idea, this proposal will be supported. Just a question arises and such a misunderstanding... Here Nauri Puntulis is aware of his error. I remember in the Ministry of Economics one such thing as Janis Witenbergs, who told me about ideas, and we see where proposals for reduced VAT on meat have also been made... he sits next to me and tells me how well it is and that it will really be a good contribution, because he has worked with fruit trade in his professional life and has seen how it improves...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U29	Dear colleagues, We are talking here about proposal 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U30	But I already... Please... Yeah, yeah... And I want to finish...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U31	Proposal No 1 related to literature and not to meat. Thank you, I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U32	In the Commission, the proposal was partly supported and included 2. - the Commission's proposal. I therefore call on you to vote against or to abstain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U33	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal tabled by Members Gürgen, Papule, Dombrovskis and Pucene! Please, let's vote! For - 29, for - 38, for - 14. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U34	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Culture, Naura Puntulis. Provision is made for reduced VAT rates for books, publications and printed matter, both in printed and digital form. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U35	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U36	Here, too, we come to a legally correct, linguistically correct and to a Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission... Members' sufficiently balanced proposal, which will ensure a five-percent rate for books, digital spending - for general expenditure - next year. I would also like to point out to the opposition that budgetary adjustments are taking place here, so the discussions on the budget start in the executive power and then continue in the decision-making power. This is one such adjustment. I can assure you that the specific proposal has been sounding coalitions for a long time as well... Among other things, the problem was the debate on fiscal calculations. As soon as fiscal calculations were received, this specific proposal, on which we will be voting immediately and which I call for strong support, was also agreed. So I call on you not to speculate, or rather not to manipulate, with information that there is some kind of error or something that has been seen from the opposition. I think we all understand very well that the deadline for the submission of proposals was quite short, it was not possible to wait for some time when some of them would submit proposals and then... somehow watch them and then present them as their own. It was quite difficult to do in time. But I am pleased that the Ministry of Culture, whose parliamentary secretary immediately, after I have spoken, had prepared fiscal calculations so that this proposal could be implemented within the Saeima within the framework of budgetary adjustments. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U37	Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U38	Hello! Minister of Culture - 2 and 3. - the proposal provides for the application of a reduced rate of value added tax of five percentage points to books in all formats, including textbooks and periodicals, to publications, including on-line or download, given that in almost all countries of the European Union the same reduced rate of value added tax has already been introduced for books and periodicals in the physical and digital versions. This is in line with both the common policy of the European Union and the interests of our country. In our country, such a rate will contribute to the development of the digital economy and a level playing field will be ensured for the whole sector, while in the EU as a whole, such a reduced rate was allowed by the Council Directive of 6 November 2018/1713 of the European Union. Indeed, it is also true that it was not a mistake, and Mr Feldman said, that the Ministry of Culture had already mentioned in the initial information report to the Cabinet of Ministers the electronic books and digital distribution, which are being reduced by value added tax. But, of course, the Cabinet of Ministers assessed overall the common tax policy, tax revenues, competition, and finally we had the same books, both printed and electronic. Changes are necessary because the application of the current standard VAT rate to electronic books and digital newspapers, magazine versions do not encourage the publisher to develop and offer to readers segments of these products, and it slows down the digital transformation of these sectors. The media consumption needs of both Latvia and other countries show that media content in digital format will increase in the future, so this format will play an increasing role in the creation of a national information space. This trend is also confirmed by the co-legislators of neighbouring countries – Estonia and Lithuania – who have decided to apply the reduced rate to all periodicals and books, regardless of their format. It should be noted that 3. - the Minister's proposal provides for the application of a reduced rate of VAT only to goods and services produced by the media which are in line with the activities of the media. The regulation contained in the proposal does not provide for the application of the reduced rate of VAT to any website, but only to one that is a media service. The application of the reduced VAT rate for electronic books and periodicals set out in Proposals 2 and 3 will contribute to the digital development of the books and media sectors and will support the diversity and availability of content in the format that consumers are increasingly demanding. I call for support of 2 and 3. - a proposal from the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U39	Thank you. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U40	Dear President and colleagues of the Saeima. I would like to express my thanks to the Minister for Culture, Naurim Puntulis, for having noticed that, in his information report or otherwise, the error made would be not only for the textbooks but also for the literature of teaching in electronic form and in printed form, to be subject to value added tax concessions. At the same time, I would not like to take the opportunity... and yet, it is obvious that the coalition Members are starting to eat each other and the more disprove errors, the more obvious it is, the more obvious it is that such mistakes are made. But also looking at the wording, not into language, once again - not only the textbooks, but also the literature of teaching... I still feed on the question of why not children's literature, because it would also help children right now... read more. But at the same time, similar schemes... VAT will also be exempt. It is better to stay with Endellin and play less with language issues than Endellin if it is not of great interest or if it is poorly mastered in some learning process. Once again, thank you to Mr Puntulis for preventing this error, and I call on the coalition Members not to trade each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U41	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U42	Dear colleagues, After Mr Feldman's speech, I could not say anything about this. Unfortunately, it has come to pass that the executive has indeed submitted a bill containing an error, and I think that it is probably the book dealers themselves who are working in this area who have understood this inconsistency. But it's good that he listens, and it's good that such changes are made, and I... Very good speech by this Mr. Feldman... regarding the fact that, yes, the decision-making power is then making its own corrections, but I must say that until now, Mr Feldman and other colleagues, the executive, have submitted a budget where the decision-making power has made very few corrections. I would even say that very little adjustments are made. The only adjustments that are, it is this proposal and then - Members' quotas (EUR 2 million) that we will talk about later on, but there are no changes in substance, and this only shows that, unfortunately, the decision-making power is not able to come with its vision in line with today's challenges, those that are topical issues today, but to keep the budget the same as that prepared by the government in summer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U43	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U44	Dear colleagues, Firstly, whether or not the government made a mistake. If, at the time of presenting the draft budget for the first reading, the government envisaged a reduction in the VAT rate only for printed books, not for digital books, and a correction for the second reading, it should be clear to Mr Feldman that an error was made. All in all, even after... From this Sunday’s programme “No Personal”, of course, the statement that the government could not make any mistakes could... many might smile at it. Secondly, who and how that mistake was noticed. If, of course, many Members have received the associations in question (Sound break.) ... that the government made an error without setting a reduced VAT rate for digital books. In terms of time, it is clear that initially Members made proposals, then the government examined the proposals presented, prepared its own proposals. But I think this is not about who first noticed - Members or Government - the main thing is that the error was corrected. This, in my opinion, is the key to these first two proposals. Either ‘including’ or ‘including’ - let us leave it to the interpreters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U45	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U46	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, A little bit reflecting on what our colleague, Mr Janson, said, is that the Ministry of Culture has already worked on this proposal in a timely and very timely manner. Of course, a rhetorical question arises: why was it not included in the budget package already when we received it in the Saeima? To a certain extent, the opposition colleagues who responded to the industry's call and presented the proposal in question were also pleased. We can see that they are absolutely... I'm absolutely identical... with what the Minister for Culture has submitted... if we're talking about one word... folding shape... its existence or absence, but the idea is, in fact, identical and the proposals are identical. Unfortunately, it has to be concluded that at this point... By submitting the specific proposal, when the law was already in the Saeima, we have only created unnecessary stress for professionals in the field who are dealing with online delivery of books or... downloading them, now, in parallel... because, in parallel, we teach both children and... actually very much. At the moment, we also use remote... teaching digital skills remotely. Indeed, it is an explicit decision by the sector, to which the opposition colleagues have referred, and, among other things, already after the submission, it has been noticed by the Ministry of Culture. I am very sorry that it was not included in the original version when we received it, but it is good that it is at this moment. And I join those who say that it is better to correct the error later than it remains. And in principle, that... A coalition would vote against only because the first of the mistakes have noticed and the opposition has proposed to correct it... I also call for support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U47	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U48	The proposal was supported by the Commission. I also call on the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U49	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the cultural minister Puntulis' proposal! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U50	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Culture, Naura Puntulis. The VAT rate is expected to be reduced by extending it to the press and mass media, both in print and digital format, as well as to the subscription fees for digital publications. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U51	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the cultural minister Puntulis' proposal! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U52	4. - a proposal from Members Girgen, Papule, Dombrovsky and Pucken. The VAT rate in the housing sector is expected to be reduced. The proposal was rejected by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U53	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U54	Dear colleagues, This day, 15 November, is a special day because 62 Members have violated the Constitution and have not allowed all Members to take part in this vote. Similarly, November 15 is the day when thousands of people will certainly not be able to enter their jobs. And more specifically, entrepreneurs still do not have information about when they will have support mechanisms so that they can continue to work and pay salaries to their employees. The tourism sector is no exception. As early as 2020 members of the opposition and also people... Members who understand these sectors, which could be most affected by this crisis, have informed everyone that tourism, catering, sport, beauty will be the sectors most affected by this crisis. If we talk about tourism, then in 2020 the total number of tourists who visited Latvia was 1.48 million, which is about 48 percent less than in 2019. According to existing data, the number of tourists has increased in 2021, but this is not sufficient to survive this economic crisis. I would still like to receive an answer from the Ministry of Economics, what measures they have taken in the summer of 2021 to support entrepreneurs in this autumn, for example, a repeat pandemic. We knew very well that we would face what is happening at the moment, but no action from the Ministry of Economics followed. Therefore, one of the proposals made by the "Republic" party - for reduced VAT - could be very good support for companies in this sector to make some extra savings to cover their expenses, which will not be reduced, as the Ministry of Economics believes. We still have to pay for our premises, we still have to pay our staff and we have to try to survive. I therefore call on the coalition Members to think about how to help all of these companies overcome the crisis, because these companies - you may not be aware of this - pay you for all of this - for the salaries that you are currently paying... You're sitting right now. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U55	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U56	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I think that the proposal is on the table and it is very good that colleagues have tabled such a proposal. And here's an objective situation. By already presenting this year's national budget... I turned to you, my colleague, and I pointed to... when the government presented this budget... to the situation outside Latvia. For example, the situation in Lithuania, where such a reduced rate is nine percent... The provisional rate, admittedly, is the provisional rate, not forever, but in relation to the Covid-19 was set, and there is a solution. In Estonia, too, this rate is lower than for us - if I am not mistaken, it is nine percent. However, if we look at the tourism sector as a whole, the amount of the pandemic in the first wave, the amount of money that fell out of this sector - it was 100 million per month. One of the sectors most affected. Of course, in the first summer it recovered in some way, also this summer it recovered in some way. But what we've seen is that this... Either such as the Baltic bubble, if it could be called, when we began to compete - these three Baltic countries - for a local tourist who may be travelling to Latgale or Kurzeme, he can travel as well to Lithuania or Estonia. And if these offers are more competitive there, then you know for yourself what choices people make at a time when their life is not the simplest one. The Ministry of Economics had made proposals of this nature - to introduce reduced rates for three years. And I think it would be quite right to introduce it. Like the number of entrepreneurs affected by this first wave, if we look at small and medium-sized enterprises, colleagues, these were three thousand small and medium-sized enterprises with more than 25 000 employees. At this point in time, I think that setting the reduced rate, which is proposed in this proposal (i.e. five per cent), would, in my opinion, make us... above all, they would already be burdening their lives. If we look at this proposal, colleagues, right here this is about accommodation, but now some picture is shown here in Old Town, where we have a job, the Saeima, so the Old Town... Walk on the streets of Old Town, look at the empty cafes that are locked, a number of small shops that were previously operating based on tourism flows - that is simply not. We've got hotels closed, we've got small cafes closed. Very many entrepreneurs have, in principle, finished their business, finished their existence, but those who work, are currently fighting and fighting for this foreign tourist who... Of course, like a Latvian, a German also looks in his wallet, making a choice where to go. And if we do not give our entrepreneurs such incentives, we will make them less competitive. Small entrepreneurs - three thousand pieces, 25 thousand workers, who would have such fixed-term tax change mechanisms at the moment really would be at the right place at the right time. And, admittedly, the Ministry of Economics had also seen it and came with such initiatives - they offered... we all remember what the Minister said, what statements came with, but for some reason it has not been heard. Therefore, colleagues, I call at least on someone to come and explain why this is not supported, because support instruments are similar in all these countries, they are comparable, but tax policy is unfortunately the least competitive in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U57	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U58	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, We all see this government and 13. The Saeima has not yet solved, so to say, this crisis, but has lived for the last three years with an increase in the debt level, which will be seven in four years... plus seven billion euros. According to my colleagues, over four years, Estonia has borrowed more than 30 years. So this crisis, overcoming the crisis, this government demands... is taking place in a very wasteful way, where we see that a coalition from one extreme, when public officials are proud that people who are dead paid... with a clear pride reported that they were paid three euros a month, went to the open of its fiscal locks - benefits are granted even to sectors such as construction, agriculture, for which they did not really need those benefits. So it is an instrument that is reducing the VAT rate for one of the service sectors, which has experienced particularly serious problems. We see that there is confusion in the government, which is as great, if not greater, as the confusion which is due to the pandemic of all them as such. Government officials, Minister for Finance, on the one hand, argue that the reduction in the VAT rate should not be used at all because it is a serious evil, on the other hand, the same officials and government reduced VAT rates both for fruit... and then one government ministry says that it has been a great success, the other ministry says - no, it wasn't a great success. So it's now... We've just seen... was reduced to books, we saw that a few years ago the government called for excise duty, which, by nature, was the same... reduce alcohol to attract Estonian tourists. So the confusion about when, in some cases, in what circumstances, tax policy should or should not be used... There is a great confusion in the government. We can add to this, of course, that the Head of Government himself... It was a long time ago, in 2005... but he himself called for a reduction in VAT on food to five percent if I am not mistaken. But it was a long time ago, in 2005, when Mr. Karini was Minister for Economic Affairs. Thus, the fact that a government chooses benefits rather than tax policies to support services is evidence of the incompetentness of that government in the economy, because colleagues, if the government had competence in the economy, then the government would realise that tax policy can achieve its objective more effectively than with benefits. Roughly speaking, a reduction in the VAT rate is possible about what, let's accept... Get the same effect as the EUR 100 million allowance... with benefits can reach... at a price... the budget now, let's take EUR 50 million. To understand this, we need to understand what the law of demand is, the substitution effect - all that is taught (at least what I should have learned) at universities in economic courses. We see that, unfortunately, the government and, unfortunately, the officials do not understand this. And that's why we pay so much for this crisis. That is why, for us too, that sovereign debt is so enormous, colleagues, that the government does not understand economic policy. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U59	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U60	Madam President, colleagues. I call for this proposal to be supported, thus supporting our own tourism sector, by supporting local entrepreneurs. It is now clear that the tourism sector is one of the most affected sectors in the society's situation, including due to the erroneous, chaotic decisions of the government and also of the incomplete Saeima. This sector has suffered because of your foolish, controversial and various unmistakable decisions. Secondly, by supporting this proposal, you would, however, be in favour of one bit of smarter things, gradually eliminating the consequences of the community in the tourism sector. There's been a lot of hearing... and you can, of course, cover up with GDP data, but they are misleading, because they do not really represent the true situation and the real losses of the tourism sector. I invite you to support local entrepreneurs (who still work and believe they will be able to work in the near future) by eliminating the consequences of wrong decisions, including the numerically incomplete decisions of the Saeima. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U61	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U62	Colleagues! We can increase ministers' salaries, President's salaries, officials' salaries, Members' salaries, we can send a lot of different false messages to the public, but the proposal that concerns our own industry, our small entrepreneurs... People often... who have overcome this crisis, very many have also not overcome... and we come to face not only with negative incentives, but coming to face... and not only with some money, but with positive incentives that promote... they really develop and actually operate their own business, employ people. Let us not deny that it is the reduction of VAT that is very important to support any sector, especially if we are talking about the sectors affected by the crisis. We're historically... We have seen what the fact that we are reducing VAT for a particular sector means. Often this means that there is no reduction in budget revenue, because we have even seen cases of straight opposite - that there is an increasing number of areas going out of the shadow economy. We see that it encourages people to work in a much fairer way, including those parts that perhaps no longer believe in the country at the moment. They see how they ended their first wave of requests for support, for cut-off benefits, for gravel. They see these decisions now, which have come through the Cabinet of Ministers, when this application is still not clear to many, support... situations in the areas of aid... and all checks on the part of the State Revenue Service, on the part of all state institutions... that many simply give up for their work, lay off workers in an area that is very important for our economy. And we know what tourism together with the catering industry... how large it is from our entire gross domestic product. In other words, revenue in the budget often before the crisis and also during the first wave of the crisis, the taxes paid were even higher than they originally received from the State. That is why, in my opinion, a very logical and rational signal from the country that we are coming to help, we are reducing the section that the country takes from you and we call on you to take action, we call on you to be more active and to promote the availability of our services to as much of the public as possible. And in this case, we are already talking about the local people - both those who use these accommodation services and those who provide them. They are families, they are countless households. Therefore, colleagues, I also unequivocally share the call for support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U63	Name to Member Edgar... I'm sorry. The name of Member Eric Pucen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U64	Hello, fellow Members, again! Well, that is, we have tabled this proposal, and not once, the men of the government have spoken about the introduction of such a proposal. A little more than a year ago, Minister of the National Union Janis Wittenbergs said that this would be an immediate support for the sector in order to overcome this crisis. And we see that various proposals, mechanisms to help sectors are being developed, but we see that hotels in Riga are becoming darker, emptyer and these proposals are not working. This reduction in VAT would be immediate - immediate! - a tool that people would be clear about, it would be clear to business how it helps them. And one thing is incomprehensible: what has happened to the Minister for Economic Affairs in this more than a year's time is that his opinion has changed. It shows the hypocrisy of this government, where only loud words go out, but when the proposal is to be supported, then the head is groaned, as you say, in a bag and knows no more. I call for support because this is an immediate measure that will help entrepreneurs to continue their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U65	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U66	President-in-Office of the Saeima and colleagues! I read this article from TVNET some time ago, which I think is very linked to this proposal. So “eight movers or democracy “forms by””. Its author is Andris Šuvajevs, editor of Financenet and journalist. I'm gonna raise one thing he's an observer and a member of society... "It could be hoped that discussions on the proposals put forward by Members will mark the views of the political parties represented in Parliament on certain issues. This could lead to political rationalisation, which determines the country's development potential to analyse the arguments used to support concrete proposals. However, this intuitive hope turns out to be naive. In an institution that should embodie the democratic spirit of the country, there is no discussion. There are only mechanical votes - 'yes', 'no', 'no'. Proposals are not considered in substance. Everything has been decided in advance. Members are, in fact, spectators, and committee meetings are a formality rather than an expression of the political will of a democratic society". I am not saying these words, they are said by a journalist who has followed the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) and also today's meeting of the Saeima. In my opinion, colleagues have argued very constructively why this proposal should be supported. And the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission also had such a constructive debate, but unfortunately there were only eight 'no', something 'yes' and no argument for public opinion to understand why such proposals are not supported. Therefore, colleagues, I call on you to apply for a debate and strengthen Latvia's democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U67	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U68	Colleagues! It should be noted that in this wave of the pandemic, the spending of Latvians abroad has increased significantly. The general public and experts were informed by the economists and... bank economists. It is important to understand that funds are spent abroad, because it is cheaper, it is more profitable, and money flows from Latvia. And it flows right next to the neighbors. There are already a number of opinions... It has been examined that it was the hospitality sector that suffered, and this sector was also significantly affected by changes in compulsory social security payments... has been affected by a change in restrictions... And it has certainly remained less competitive than our neighbours, which have been affected much less by the crisis and where restrictive measures and the state of public health are quite different. As a result, the segments of this sector in the countries next to - Lithuania and Estonia - suffered significantly, much less than in Latvia. Type... How to help a sector with a reduced value added tax rate... is one of the fastest-starting and better-motivated incentives for the sector to get up from the situation in which it is currently located to start coughing out of the pit in which it is currently located. I believe that we need to listen to experts and experts. And it must not be that Latvian citizens have to spend money abroad. Their money can and should be spent here in Latvia. That is what is needed. Therefore, I would ask my colleagues to support this proposal, especially in view of the fact that the government and the ruling politicians are willing to distribute 146 million to build the Liepaja prison and 34 million to repair the Saeima building and a number of other items, missions and other expenses that could wait... The development and stabilisation of the industry will have a much greater effect – both by attracting more tourists and ensuring that citizens spend money here in Latvia rather than abroad. I believe that the priorities reflect the true face of political forces and politicians and also the true interest in economic recovery rather than the lobbying of certain objects, as unfortunately happens with this budget. Therefore, I offer to support this proposal, not to support the construction of Liepaja prison or the renovation of the Saeima building. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U69	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U70	Dear colleagues, Let us ask ourselves how the competent government, the Ministry of Economics of the competent government, would act in this case, on a proposal from such members of the opposition? It is the Ministry of Economy which is responsible for the development of the tourism sector. Parliamentary Secretary, Ministry of Economic Affairs... If I remember correctly, it's Ilze Indricsone... Parliamentary Secretary would take part in the debate and present with facts what is currently the situation with our tourism industry, with the competitiveness of hotels compared to Estonia and Lithuania, where Lithuania, I remind you, reduced the value added tax rates for its hotels by the end of next year. So the competent government would tell us today what the situation with the competitiveness of our tourism industry is. A competent government would explain to us today why what this government is doing is a better policy than the proposal put forward by the opposition. But what we are seeing today is that the government is silent, and the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs is also silent. Is it because she has no idea what our competitiveness is compared to Lithuania in this area, perhaps in any other area? You don't want to go down to the level of the opposition or... What?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U71	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U72	Good afternoon, everybody! I have applied for a debate in order to enable the coalition colleagues representing this position to prepare and apply for a debate on this proposal by the opposition colleagues, namely on the reduction of the VAT rate for the hospitality sector. As a person who, too, understands something from the economy, I do not understand why this proposal has not been supported, and I would really like to hear the justification, because any economic logic, no matter what aspect you are looking at, speaks of the fact that this proposal is likely to have a positive fiscal effect in the budget, because collecting the full VAT from nothing is much less than collecting the reduced VAT rate from businesses that actually operate. If we see that we can make our sector more competitive with such a proposal, and the industry itself is talking about it, then there should be justified arguments from the power why you do not support it. I very much hope that the industry is also listening to this debate, as it has been justified in this debate by the position of power and by the fact that it has not been able to justify anything at all. I see that nobody has ever applied for a debate, nor has the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics signed up... and I call on you to follow the vote of all those who, with foam on their lips, tell us how they want to support the sector, how they care about the Latvian economy. So, too, the political power of the economy, the responsibility of which lies at the moment with the Ministry of Economics... In essence, this will be a very real example of how responsible, competently able to act or, more precisely, irresponsible, incompetent and perversely acting in this power. This will be the next moment of truth. I call on everyone to follow this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U73	The name to Member Eric Pucen for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U74	Hello, colleagues! Now I can... I will tell my colleague Ivars Zarins why coalition Members do not step up... and does not defend the proposals. Of course Ivar, these quotas are broken down! And the quotas were allocated for no reason - to sit in chairs calmly and not to talk. And so we see these new parties, including the new Members, who were at the beginning so zealous... and I want to appeal directly to the New Conservative Party... You were so eager to defend... and you yourself represent the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, which you manage. And this is a direct solution. A reduction in VAT will help Latvian entrepreneurs. Where are you now? Get up in the pub and start defending why not, why the opposition is lying or lying again! This is a good proposal. It is a pity that the representatives of the National Alliance have not taken the example of digital books here and have not put forward such a proposal. And I would also support it if they had tabled such a proposal. Perhaps the moment will come when we in the Saeima will decide on draft laws and proposals in substance, not just what has been agreed, and that is what is happening... society must know... they meet, they agree, and that is what happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U75	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U76	Colleagues! When planning the budget or working on the budget, this work is based on two principles, two requirements: the need to increase revenue and the need to optimise expenditure. It would therefore be important to analyse how the implementation of this proposal would have an impact on these two whales, as well as on this proposal. I would like to remind you that, very recently, we had discussions here, and there were also decisions that took place, I would say, not a war, but such a border dispute when it came to trade, when it came to excise duties on alcoholic beverages, because manipulation or tax manoeuvres helped to achieve some success in this fight between competitors. That is what this proposal is about. Naturally, if we talk about permanent operating conditions, it can reduce the share of revenue by reducing the revenue from value added tax in this sector, but the amounts are not predictable. And today, if we want to anticipate these increases in activity volumes, we need to create the right conditions, and this offer is one of the conditions which would, I would say, make a positive contribution to the fight against competition. This has already been mentioned today. If we are talking about cost optimisation. The coalition Members can say: "Now we have already taken decisions to invest in a number of... large amounts in these sectors to support it in a crisis situation." But support in this case - it is once again an immediate thing and an immediate solution. If we are talking about just two steps forward, then we need to strengthen the sector itself. The proposal proposed is just one possible step, as should and could help the tourism sector, which is going through difficult times, but which is not left to the end. And so it is important here to use any lever to support this sector, in a competitive environment, and it is therefore particularly important to support this proposal, although following our competitors from Lithuania and Estonia. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U77	I closed the debate. For the Commission, please... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U78	The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U79	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the proposal tabled by Members Gürgen, Papule, Dombrovskis and Pucene! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U80	5. - a proposal from Members Girgen, Papule, Dombrovsky and Pucken. The VAT rate for catering is expected to be reduced. The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U81	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U82	Dear colleagues! Now this budget will not be an exception. I feel that every year, when preparing each budget, opposition colleagues are trying to figure out, as creatively as possible, which taxes are being abolished without giving any fiscal estimates, any sources of funds, or any specific scientific justification. For example, in this budget we can see... So I will focus a little on what this budget is supposed to do either to review down or to abolish the tax as well. Well then a moment ago there were tourist accommodations, now there is catering, next will be... Meat, fish, eggs, milk; next will be hairdressers, ginger, nail care, cosmetologist, visaist, massager, tattoos, solary and SPA; again meat - pork, goat meat, poultry meat, other meat -, fish, milk, curd, cream, butter, eggs; next - electricity transmission; next - natural gas and its transmission; next - abolish housing management... I mean, I'm sorry, I didn't name anything, in fact, everything... Any topics of social sensitivity - the opposition offers them, without any fiscal calculation, to reduce or abolish value added tax. Unlike this year, I do not seem to see, for example, a proposal - which is a little surprising to me, because it would be quite populist - for reducing VAT on medicines. If I were from those who would like to make the VAT system as complicated as possible and make it more difficult to work, for example, if I didn't understand why there is VAT at all, then I... first, I'd probably give you... be directly for medicinal products and try to obtain the support of different lots. This year, I don't see anybody coming up for the medication. That's an exception. But in principle for everything else it has been submitted that VAT should be reduced or abolished. So, my dear colleagues, you have bad news. So this does not create a budget, it is not a responsible policy, proposing the elimination of taxes at all. It is the responsibility of the State to take care of so-called commons... to provide the public with so-called common benefits, which are those for which it is responsible... provided by public administration - these central public administrations in all... various types of services. And so, the state also needs the budget revenue. In a dramatic populism, one could also talk about abolishing or reducing all taxes, but I think it is absolutely clear to the public that this is absolutely unrealistic in general. But that... Every year, of course, such offers are: they cannot be avoided. We're about to hear about... We've heard it before... We are well aware that Latvia was, for example, on the red list for one moment because of the comma's spread and the reduction in tourist flow. And it is proposed to reduce VAT by saying that its flow will somehow increase if VAT is reduced. Even though everyone is sitting - vaccinated and unvaccinated - sitting in the house and can't do... can't spend your money even in local tourism, because they just don't have to do it or go out of the house for various other reasons, or getting some services just... the provision is prohibited. Here I must say, dear colleagues, that the causes of the crisis must be combated. The reason for the crisis is that people are... there is, in fact, no other option in the public administration than to limit mortality due to the community, but to impose those restrictions, including on economic activities. And the fastest way is to overcome the pandemic so that economic activity returns to normal tracks as soon as possible. Colleagues in the opposition, it is your duty to contribute to these goals so that the economy recovers as soon as possible, rather than making populist proposals for abolishing all possible taxes...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U83	Thank you. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U84	Dear colleagues, We could now see the incompetentness that prevails... From Krišjānis Feldman. I'm just convinced that he has the ability to learn how to read, but it's just short-lived thinking, but in the future we'll see how we're going to develop...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U85	Colleagues, I call for this debate not to talk about each other, but about proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U86	So I would like to draw attention to the fact that we need to think not only in the short term, maybe a few weeks ahead, but rather to predict those processes - which will take place several months and even years ahead. It is more interesting to think in the process, not only in the framework of this, 13, Saeima, but also in 14, 15 and 16. In the framework of the Saeima, how to develop our Latvian economy. Unfortunately, it is sad to hear that coalition representatives are calling for a reduction in VAT on medical products that... but... himself did not do it for the best conscience and now VAT will remain exactly the same as it is. But let's talk about this catering business. So in 2017, the Latvian Restaurant Society addressed each of the political groups and parties of the existing coalition with an invitation to provide an assessment of whether they supported the reduced VAT rate for catering. There was no wonder: there was no youthful unity, neither for uncles, nor for “Development/About!” has mentioned that they are in favour of this reduced VAT and would be prepared to introduce it if the sector were to carry out a wide range of tasks in order to sort out the sector. Over the years, the sector has developed, these wage levels have increased, the shadow economy has also decreased, while the corporate sector has been severely affected. And now we see, when we go out on the same streets, how many companies are closed, and these same employees have certainly now gone to work abroad. But the question is, how can we support this sector so that it can go out in the future. And one of these proposals is, of course, a reduced VAT, because it would allow existing companies that have been able to survive and maybe even hoard this last breath, but perhaps they could accumulate some additional funds to cover their expenses, because, as I am now... As I said, the Ministry of Economics has still not been able to provide detailed information when entrepreneurs could have additional financial resources to overcome this crisis. That is why I would very much call on the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs to join in our discussions and to give a detailed overview not only to us, the opposition Members, but also to all the others... entrepreneurs to understand how... How long they have to survive at all... how long they have to wait until these support mechanisms. I have called in many commissions to speak and speak, but there are always reservations why she cannot join and inform - then at one moment she is at the wheel, then somewhere else at one moment is busy. Well, this would be the moment to announce how these entrepreneurs can survive at the moment. I can also mention the duality that is now... is also taking place with the catering sector. Although it can be taken as an example that these entrepreneurs will be able to work by 21.00 now, at the same time Lidl shops have already announced that they will work by 23.00. And we've seen these lines... which is also doing now more than a month after the opening of these stores... and in return we set our Latvian companies, catering people who are denied work, who have to comply with certain meters, to limit their space. As far as possible, on the coalition side, all these entrepreneurs are oppressed. But the most important thing is that at the moment, there is a very high level of uncertainty about how to survive. And I do not believe that this is populist: to take care of these sectors, which already need concrete assistance and the reduction of VAT would certainly help. If we are talking about the extension of tax refunds, it is a little bit twofold from the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U87	Thank you. Mr. Valains, are you going to have a debate with four minutes?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U88	I'll try.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U89	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U90	Dear colleagues, I have to answer Mr Feldman for his statements. Colleagues, to blame the opposition on proposals that have no calculations, is, in my opinion, out of place. The proposals were defended by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and, in my opinion, were correctly prepared. In the absence of such offers with all the calculations, they could not be considered at all. It was the decision of the Saeima that only can submit... put forward the proposals in the budget package, so all the proposals are put to the vote. The question is the argument, and now I think... I find it very unacceptable if, as a representative of the opposition, I am starting to learn something from the coalition about the need for a responsible policy - in circumstances where a budget deficit of 4.8 per cent of gross domestic product has been submitted, with a deficit of 1.3 billion, with the largest borrowing in Latvia's history that has been made. And here I am being told that we are not telling the way in which our citizens should be supported. But a little bit about this proposal. Mr Feldman crossed all over, but very little touched on the very nature of the proposal. And I would like to say, this argument that everyone is sitting in a house sitting - Mr Feldman, open your eyes! Dear Coalition, open your eyes! The food is, yes, but the journey has not stopped! People travel in the Baltic States (as I mentioned in the previous proposal) and we are competitive... we are in this single market, we have common borders. And if we look at what's happening in Lithuania... In Lithuania, with... a reduction in the VAT rate for public catering from 1 July of this year to the end of 2022. Different debates - they need, do not need, and so on, but the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets and Finance of the Lithuanian Parliament pointed out that the reduced VAT rate would lead to a reduction in the shadow sector. Is that not an important argument, colleagues, in a context where the last study by Mr Saukas on the shadow economy shows that our share of the shadow economy has increased by 1.6 percent, whereas the shadow economy data of our neighbour, Lithuania, which is obviously doing something wrong, are about a quarter - a quarter! - lower than ours. Colleagues, you understand the figures, then, in terms of budget revenue, this 1.6 percent means 100 million euros, which we could use for a wide range of things. At present, the share of the shadow economy in Latvia is already dramatically high and will continue to grow. And these industries will look for ways to survive, and if you don't give... You will not go against these sectors, they will not come against them, and this dialogue between the business and the country will become increasingly heavy, and these numbers of the shadow economy will reflect a reality that is not very friendly at present. And there, too, those budget revenue that might arise. In this case, if we keep as it is, then there will simply not be this budget revenue, it will be... will go on other curves, which will unfortunately be the shadow economy curves that will continue to rise, and budget revenues will continue to decrease, and then this tax burden will have to be imposed on other companies that will pay these... who will be able to be charged... these taxes... who will be unable to avoid them in any way. That's why...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U91	Colleagues! The clock is 12.00, you promised to finish the debate by 12.00.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U92	Four minutes didn't go, but now it's okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U93	Thank you, colleagues. So we will continue the debate after the break. It is also time for the statement. Today's birthday is celebrated by our fellow Member Normund June, and we welcome him! There's also a record of Members. So let's continue at 12.15. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U94	Dear colleagues, Let us continue the debate after a break. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U95	Very respectful sittings... Forgive me, Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I will start with the fact that I appreciate the courage of my colleague, Krišjānis Feldman. He's the only one right now actually from all the ruling coalition... he is the only one who does not fear to take part in the debate and, to say that, to get in his face from all the members of the opposition. This contrasts with the fact that these specific proposals are now... It is the direct job of the Parliamentary Secretaries of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economics to speak on these issues, but they do not, therefore, receive taxpayers' money only for their office but do not do their direct job... Perhaps a coalition could appoint Mr Feldman as its own, so to say a coalition's parliamentary...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U96	I am sorry, I am asking you not to talk about each other, but about the proposal in question.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U97	I am the Parliamentary Secretary of the Coalition, Madam President.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U98	No, now this proposal is not about Parliamentary Secretary.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U99	Okay. But, following on from the proposals, because unfortunately, I cannot compliment the parliamentary secretary of the coalition on the content. Questions were asked here about what the calculations for this proposal are and what science is under this proposal. And in general, that this is not the budget. Dear colleagues from the coalition! Let me give you a few comments on your policy in the catering sector. I'll just read a few headlines, by the way, from the public media, it's not from Facebook, and it's just the last... publications produced around a month. One title: Restaurant Society declares that industry companies are destined for destruction. Another title (Latvian public media): “The catering industry requires a rapid decision on re-employment and long-term state support”. The industry demands that 21 countries of the European Union follow, for example, by applying a reduced VAT rate to public catering. Another opinion, and it is from the owner of one very well-known restaurant: “If public officials say that restaurants can work, but all people must be at home by 20.00 a.m. every day, it’s like telling a person that he can breathe Alpine air, but with a hairy cellophan bag in his head.” So... Please combine the times of the debate, if possible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U100	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U101	So, colleagues from the coalition, I would like to say with this that, if one of the industry's comments on the government's policy in the catering sector are there, then there is no good indication of that policy. Mr Feldman rightly claimed that this specific proposal - on the reduction of VAT - had no fiscal calculation. This is true, because such fiscal calculations require resources that, unfortunately, some members of the opposition do not have. But it is precisely the government's task - to make such calculations. The government's task is to design policies by looking at the main possible alternatives and by choosing the most effective, the best. Consequently, the competent government would certainly consider this policy option to reduce the VAT rate. And the competent government would certainly provide analysis and calculations and try to answer such questions. First of all, how much do we lose Lithuania? I think we're losing people... loses both tourists and people who travel to Lithuania because there, thanks to lower VAT for public catering, food is cheaper. How much do we pay the allowance that we are forced to pay for the same public catering? How many catering companies will go to the shadow economy? See, I... on their scientific basis... I do not, of course, make any coalition Members, to say that they do not understand how the demand law works. I rather have to blame those teachers who taught you and those who have allowed you to complete the universities you have completed, but to say so, on your fingers... to ABC... You see, when a tax such as VAT is reduced, it gives the opportunity and even actually forces the company to reduce the price. This also applies to catering, as many work on reception. By reducing the price, demand is on the rise. It is also called substitution effect. Consequently, this is a better instrument than a benefit, more effective because, by reducing the price, the company actually attracts demand that goes to other sectors. So, as I said before, tax reductions are more effective than benefits... in this situation. If you want to look at what science says, then we need to go back to the average, so to say, level texts in the economy. If you have higher education, colleagues, then you should... you have somehow passed the exams at this level. My debate is over, isn't it?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U102	Thank you. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U103	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, If we are talking about sectors affected by the crisis in different respects, then, just like the accommodation sector, our catering providers - all kinds of catering service providers (from small dining rooms to people who cannot eat at home every day, from budget-class catering establishments to medium-sized and even smooth catering establishments, restaurants). Every such workplace, every such catering establishment - they are employers, they are mostly Latvian, local, businessmen. Someone has taken credit to develop this sector. Someone has pledged his own house or relative's house as collateral to be able to develop this area, this sector and the specific place to develop. Someone employs dozens of people, somebody, some people. But if we look at the sector as a whole, then... As we know, before the pandemic, this sector, the catering industry, at least according to the State Revenue Service, employed almost 30,000 employees. If it is correct for all households to be affected to some extent by all restrictions, we can understand how much of Latvia's society is currently affected by all these decisions. If we are also talking about the catering sector, with huge support for which a reduction in the VAT rate of five per cent would bring, then we need to understand what was indirectly demonstrated by a member of the government meeting with the Group of the Greens/Farmers Union - that the government was not prepared for support mechanisms - was not given to the responsible... the task of the Minister responsible for the field to develop support mechanisms. Now too... the second wave or the third wave is already in the duck when there was a house sitting, the so-called pilot-in-law... Entrepreneurs write that now that this home meeting has been completed, this period of complete, absolute silence for entrepreneurs, they call the Ministry of Economics via an information phone and turn to the State Revenue Service to find out when employees will have these bonuses for October and get an answer that this could probably happen in December. We are not even talking about the gravel businessmen who could receive these gravels in January. What are we talking about? From the head of the committee responsible, the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, we hear that this proposal is not responsible that this proposal is not scientifically balanced. However, my fellow Members, is it responsible: people are asking them to close their business, to ask them to stop working for tens of thousands of employees, but not to make it clear when they will be able to get a salary for October? December, January? Maybe someone won't qualify at all... What are these conditions? Many had confidence that these conditions would be similar to those of the first wave. No, they haven't been published for a long time! So, colleagues, five percent... The reduction in the VAT rate in this area is, of course, not the main rescue, but it is something. Someone will reduce the total cost of his product, the total cost of his menu... the final consumer. Someone may add a euro to keep it down, but... in order not to increase the total price as a result, thus saving your business because rents are due, taxes are due and employees pay salaries. We may be able to look at this matter with a light mind, because text messages come to us twice a month that there has been an advance and that there has been a salary - whether there is a house or not, whether there is a pilot or not; whether we are working in person or at a distance. However, there is no such situation for those working in the private sector, tens of thousands of people. And if they're restricted to providing services, then... The objective truth is that we can hear about new bankruptcies and about entrepreneurs moving from our country to other countries, even right here in our region, because there are much smaller respective repressions from the State Revenue Service and the Food and Veterinary Service, lower administrative costs and so on. And these people understand that even after a pandemic, they will probably remain employers and service providers in another country. Those who can afford. Those who cannot afford - they will, of course, have severe, severe bankruptcies. Therefore, colleagues, if we are talking about responsible policies and weighing up policies, then this VAT rate of five per cent is definitely better than it is today. I therefore call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U104	Thank you. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U105	Thank you. To be honest, this proposal, which is being discussed, is neither an example of populism nor an attempt to invent a new instrument in the fight against the pandemic; it is one of the attempts to adapt tax policy to the economic crisis caused by the pandemic, and it must therefore be seen from its recital. When it comes to tax policy as such, it should be remembered that its task is not only to fill or fill the state purse, but also to achieve the economic and social development of the country, because its money is also needed to achieve these objectives. When it comes to tax policy amendments in general - yes, indeed, in times of crisis, this is one of the most effective ways of adapting to the crisis and speeding up the resolution and resolution of the crisis. And this is one of these instruments. It is not for nothing that today it has been said that such a technique has been used in most countries of the European Union (not only in Latvia) and that it is an effective tool. And more generally, if we are talking about taxes as such, I would also like to remind you of the recent history: two taxes - personal income tax and solidarity tax - instead of progressive personal income tax. It was an experiment to overcome the financial crisis, and it also had its place, and it was realised. However, in this case, it is not about - there will be more money in the public purse or less money - but about how it will possibly develop or maintain the catering sector in our economy. In support of this proposal, I would just like to say one thing: if no value is created, there is no added value that can be cut. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U106	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U107	I didn't notice that time was over, I didn't ask for time to be combined, I'm going to keep a little bit. First thing. Subject to the restrictions in force, on-the-spot work may be carried out before 21.00, while food for reception shall be provided without limitation on working time. That is simply to rebut the false statements made in the previous debate. What do I mean? From an economic point of view, it is... I fully agree with the need for support for entrepreneurs. And, of course, the responsible ministry needs to work sufficiently dynamically on this issue. And I don't remember the case that, for example, I don't know, young Conservatives would have objected to something. We have always been too much in favour. What do we need to understand? Household savings on bank accounts are increasing at this time of pandemic, when you can't go anywhere and you can't spend money anywhere, and everywhere like... justified, too, maybe... take care, - rising with speed... about 800 million to a billion... on average... 12 months. This is the aggregated information of the financial sector. We have to make sure that this money (almost two billion extra household accounts, annual growth around... Thirteen percent) would be spent as quickly as possible in the economy, and then the business plans that are for entrepreneurs will also work out. And we can only do this if we work together - including the opposition, which has prevented a faster exit from the pandemic - to achieve this goal. This is the solution to our economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U108	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U109	Dear Chairman and colleagues of the Saeima. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in fact, in support of this proposal, you will also, in part, support the catering service of the educational institutions. Remember, Mr Feldman, a year ago you reduced public funding for school catering by 50 percent. This year there has been an attempt to restore it and correct this error, yes, because children are learning here, it's deserved, but... However... By supporting this proposal, you will also reduce the costs of catering for those who deliver lunch to schools and also kindergartens... in this respect, you would correct the error. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U110	Thank you. Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U111	Colleagues! Before we are talking about a way out of this crisis, I would also call for us to look at ourselves - in the government - and remember the events of October: the government was exactly what did not listen to experts and even tried to persuade experts to be subject to its view on how to reduce the spread of the disease that we are currently in the situation we are in. Colleagues, when talking about this particular proposal, we can build on different sources, but we can also listen to what is said, for example, by one of the founders of the Latvian Restaurant Society and President Jānis Enzis. He has, of course, dedicated such a rather specific term to this situation, calling it a sejsle, but I think the basis for this is quite interesting. In particular, there are a number of things that he has mentioned, first and foremost: significant increases in the salaries of public officials are being considered, the allowances of Members at a time when certain employees in the sector do not see the opportunity to pay current bills and go to profit abroad. This is about this proposal, colleagues. High public officials call for the re-skilling of workers in sectors affected by the crisis and for a change of profession. Colleagues, these are just some of the things the President of the Latvian Restaurant Society tells us all. In essence, this proposal aims to help these businesses overcome the crisis because there are not only tax payments, there are many other payments that have been delayed, and there will have to be something out of them. This would be direct support for this area, as has already been done by a number of countries. We do not see this problem or pretend to see it. Look around you and you'll see it. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U112	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U113	Colleagues! As regards tax rates, one further thing needs to be understood: the extent to which tax rates are tolerated or not generally tolerated depends also on the proportion of the shadow economy. In particular, it is usually the case: if a taxpayer, an entrepreneur, realises that he has to choose - either to pay all taxes or to feed his family, his children - then he will probably also be forced to use rather aggressive tax optimisation options, or schemes, which, in my opinion, are not a good practice and are not acceptable practices. However, if a taxpayer sees that the tax burden is that he can pay them and at the same time has the resources to support his family, his children, he is happy to pay them. The reduced tax rate for this sector, as proposed by the applicants, would also be exactly what would enable taxpayers to better fulfil their tax obligations and pay all taxes. And this way, not less tax revenues, would be provided, but quite the opposite! - higher tax revenues. It must also be understood that the share of the shadow economy in Latvia is, unfortunately, increasing year after year, rather than decreasing - according to expert estimates. In Latvia, the share of the shadow economy is the highest compared to the closest neighbouring countries - Lithuania and Estonia - and it is also growing much faster than in neighbouring countries. It is very interesting that a leader in the economy... Latvia is the region of Kurzeme, where mostly the base of the National Association is located. And that is why the question arises as to whether the real economic instruments and the tax policy we pursue are fair and motivate to pay taxes. After the increase in the share of the shadow economy, it can be concluded that it is unlikely to be motivated. And according to experts, it will increase in the coming years. What does this involve? With tax policy. Colleagues, we have the opportunity to correct mistakes and ensure that fair policies are implemented, and that really taxpayers would like to pay taxes rather than be forced (I will emphasise the importance of the word 'forced'!) to avoid or invent any schemes. And its trends can be analysed and researched both in Lithuania and Estonia, where the tax burden is much more efficient and less for both labour and individual products. Value Added Tax... The tax burden on consumption - it also shows the public's attitude towards citizens, the public's attitude towards businesses and taxpayers in small businesses. We are losing, and every year we are losing more and more. I therefore ask my colleagues to support this proposal in order to ensure competition with the neighbouring Baltic countries, so that we do not fall deeper into the shadow economy; to avoid; to pay taxes fairly. And it only depends on us, not on each other. The fact that we can afford to raise pay for civil servants, but we cannot afford to reduce taxes on companies - this is, in my opinion, an agile and very anti-sighty policy in the field of taxation. Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U114	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U115	Finally. Proposal No 5 Colleagues, you have to understand that the same reduction in VAT... it will not save the food sector from the dramatic situation in which it is currently located, but it is a good step, a step in the right direction, which could allow a little faster recovery to be made to the first chance. We can only save this area if, as colleagues have already mentioned before me, we really analyse this risk - this cross-border risk, this risk of leakage - that an entrepreneur can decide to go to work in one of the neighbouring countries or another country of the European Union, as we often hear... and we can read these new examples. And also, only when the government acts quickly and really starts to deliver on what I am talking about in the first part. When they pay the entrepreneurs this part of the cut-off allowance... It is about what the State needs to do... and when he pays the promised grants... about this time, which, among other things, overall looking... so that these companies do not go bankrupt. We remember how much tax these entrepreneurs paid during the pre-crisis period. They were in total... if you look at the economy as a whole, then they're about 5,6... people working in the private sector. And GDP as a whole... It cost about 147 million per year - 147 million were paid into the budget! The first wave of the crisis also paid close to 100 million in the first year. By the way, it was considerably more than it received back from the country... at a difficult time. Let us therefore maintain this area so that these people can return to normal work as soon as possible! They don't need anything else. They demand equal conditions, such as those in other parts of Europe, including...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U116	Thank you, thank you. I closed the debate. For the Commission, please... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U117	In the Commission, proposal 5 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U118	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - the proposal tabled by Members Gürgen, Papule, Dombrovskis and Pucene! Please, let's vote! - 30, 51, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U119	6. - a proposal from Members Girgen, Papule, Dombrovsky and Pucken. It is envisaged to reduce the VAT rate for fresh meat, fish, eggs and dairy products. In the Commission, proposal 6 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U120	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U121	Colleagues! Let me start by reminding you that the declaration by the government led by Krišjānis Kariņš has been written: let us examine the possibilities of reducing VAT on fresh meat, fresh fish, eggs and dairy products. But up to now, of course, we have not heard any arguments as to why this reduced VAT should be introduced. Go on. If Krišjānis Feldman wanted to hear additional data, then I will mention additional information so that he can make this decision more competent. I will start with the Ministry of Agriculture, which is responsible for this sector. As we know, the five-interest rate is already suitable for vegetables. And the initial argument from the Ministry of Agriculture was that the reduced VAT rate of five percent has justified itself because the number of taxpayers has increased by six percent. This means that entrepreneurs come out of the grey zone, that farmers' production has increased by six per cent and that the total value of taxable production at the VAT rate of five per cent has increased by 19 per cent. And this has been highlighted by Jānis Eglīte, head of the office of Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhards. Also in 2018, salaries in the sector increased by 9.5 percent compared to 2017. In 2019 – compared to 2017 – this increase has already been 14 percent. This means that the reduced VAT rate has had a positive impact on wages. The same interesting picture can be found in the analysis of the fiscal impact of the reduced VAT rate of five per cent. In particular, the initial forecast was to have an impact of EUR 5.9 million, but already in 2018 it was shown that the actual impact was only EUR 3.4 million, and in the first nine months of 2019 it was 3,6 million. The prices of these products on the store shelves were lower than in Lithuania and Estonia. In Latvia prices had fallen by an average of 11.7 percent. And so all of this has led to an estimate of the impact of introducing a reduced rate of VAT - five per cent - on fresh meat, fish, eggs and dairy products. On average, the prices for fresh meat, milk - 10.3 percent, eggs - 3.9 percent will decrease. At the same time, consumption will increase: for fresh meat - 2.9 per cent, for fresh fish - 4.1 per cent, for dairy products - 6.6 per cent, for eggs - 0.3 per cent. Thus, estimates show that, by reducing the VAT rate for meat, the budgetary impact could be EUR 9.1 million, savings for households could be around EUR 7.8 million; savings for fish - EUR 1.3 million, savings for households - EUR 0.9 million; for dairy products - EUR 9.07 million, savings for households - EUR 5.4 million; for eggs - EUR 1.87 million, savings for households - EUR 2.2 million. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, already in 2006, the then Minister for Economic Affairs, Kariņš, presented a proposal on a reduced VAT rate for foodstuffs. At the time, VAT was another 18 per cent, but the proposal provided for a five per cent shift. The main arguments were that lowering the VAT rate for food is increasing the rate of inflation... if you have not noticed - inflation is now also rising very rapidly in Latvia... and reduce inflationary pressures on the population. That was what the Minister thought. The Minister of Economics Krišjānis Kariņš stressed that “the low income citizens will benefit from the tax reduction. The overall reduction in the price of low-income families could reach five per cent, as the proportion of expenditure on food in the basket is almost twice as high as the average for families with lower incomes". I have now made comments to you; I have reminded you of what has been said by representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, as well as by former Minister for Economic Affairs, Krišjānis Kariņš. If you need any further arguments, I can certainly give them in my second speech, but at the moment I call on everyone else to speak. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U122	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U123	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I am also pleased from the previous discussion - that the coalition Member... Which, I think, you can call it a name, right?... in his thinking is on the right track. By asking what the households will do with all the financial resources they have accumulated during the pandemic, you, dear colleagues, are on the way, so to say, halfway to understand where the hook is. You see, what will happen next: that all those citizens, with the financial means they are prepared to spend, will decide how and where they will spend these funds, based, of course, on what the prices of their purchases or activities are. Prices! This means: if, for example, in Lithuania, its prices are salty and cheaper, then, of course, they will go to Lithuania or... All in all, even inside the country. If food were at the old price, then perhaps you could choose to buy more imported food (for example, from Alibaba). com or something else). But by reducing VAT and thus reducing prices for the same public catering, citizens will choose more directly public catering in Latvia, and it will increase turnover, it will, of course, improve the situation of the industry, it will increase tax revenues and so on. And here I would like to read to you, my fellow Members, because it really is, well, so great and very difficult... Please combine discussion times... in good time for the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U124	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U125	Thank you. I would like to read it to you because my colleague, Mr. Feldman... Forgive me, I mentioned you by name... he also asked for calculations. So here you go... There are estimates here from those times when the Ministry of Economics still made some calculations and did not fear to speak to the public. So: there has ever been an economic minister, Krišjānis Kariņš, who has put forward an initiative in the government - a proposal to reduce value added tax on foodstuffs - which, colleagues, is much wider than what is proposed in this particular proposal. And I'll quote you now, colleagues, if you don't believe me. If we had the Saeima here, so say, chat room, sorry, I'd love to put this article there so you can read it; I'm sure you all get a lot of pleasure from it. But now I'm gonna kill you. So: Minister of Economics Krišjānis Kariņš proposed to reduce VAT from 18 to five percent - he considered that lowering VAT on food will slow the sharp rise in inflation in Latvia. For us, colleagues... The authors of this budget believed that inflation would be two per cent this year, but it has already reached six per cent and is likely to reach eight per cent. So if the government thought that inflation would be two percent, but it's already eight... Six percent, sorry, three times higher, this certainly means that there is a rapid rise in inflation. That lowering of the VAT rate will reduce inflationary pressures on the population - it was considered by the Ministry of Economics under the leadership of Krišjānis Kariņš. Minister of Economics Krišjānis Kariņš stressed that (I quote) “the low income citizens will benefit from a tax reduction. The overall price reduction for low-income families could reach 5 percent. Colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is a reduction of VAT from 18 per cent to five per cent (at this moment we have a VAT rate of 21 per cent). So... the impact on disadvantaged families will then be even greater as a further tax reduction will be implemented. And more. According to the Ministry of Economy calculations, the reduction of the VAT rate on food... taking into account also the increase in demand... You see, at those times, in 2006, the Ministry of Economics still realized that a reduction in the tax on food could increase demand. It seems that since then its knowledge has been lost, and neither the Ministry of Economics nor the Ministry of Finance is no longer aware of how a reduction in the tax rate could change the demand. Thus, inflation could fall by around 2-3 percentage points. And more. Colleagues, calculations by the Ministry of Economics show that the budget revenue, if VAT had been reduced, could even be roughly (others, attention!) EUR 65.6 million more than expected by the Ministry of Finance. So: then Minister of Economics Krišjānis Kariņš considered that reducing the VAT rate from 18 per cent to five per cent would increase the budget revenue by EUR 65,6 million. So, Mr Feldman, what other calculations do you need if Minister for Economics Krišjānis Kariņš said that reducing the VAT rate for food to five per cent would increase the budget revenue by EUR 65 million?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I hope you know Krišjāni Kariņa and respect your Head of Government and, therefore, respect these fiscal calculations, which... Given that we offer a reduction of 21 percent to five, this will certainly have a greater effect. In other words, colleagues - tax revenues will rise, inflation will fall, low-income families will benefit. What else do you need to support this proposal?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U126	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U127	President of the Saeima. Colleagues! I, too, call for this proposal to be supported because, nevertheless... This is the time we can compare. And we can compare with the rules already in force, where the reduced VAT (at least on fresh fruit and vegetables) was, and has been, working. And here I would like to refer to Gunti Vilnati, the Executive Director of the LOSP, who has mentioned a few figures... I will add a couple of arguments to the arguments of my colleague Dombrovskis... Thus, when this reduced rate was introduced for fresh fruit and vegetables, the number of employees in the sector increased by 1.9 percent, and wages increased by 9-10 percent. And, of course, tax revenues overturned all previous forecasts of the Ministry of Finance. The tax revenue was projected to fall but, on the contrary, the revenue increased! And there were many other very positive factors, which are not insignificant. For example, the volume of food imported from other countries, but delivered as locals, has decreased. Such a problem is also very important and exists in Latvia, and such a reduction has also appeared in this case. Go on. Colleagues, I think not a few people (I invite you to listen!) ... and here we have all voted in favour... So: 16 134 Latvians have signed up to an initiative to reduce VAT on foodstuffs, including those mentioned in this specific proposal. Colleagues, this, in my opinion, is a proposal which, in practice - in practice - has shown that the Ministry of Finance has its Excel-type approach that, if the tax is reduced, there will certainly also be a reduction in revenue... In real life, this has shown a completely opposite trend (i.e. for these products it has already proven to be working) - that then, on the contrary, the shadow economy is decreasing, the number of employees in the sector is increasing, wages in the sector are increasing. A lot of positive signals. And here too... I think it would be a very positive signal to Latvian citizens who... At present, there is a rather substantial increase in food prices as such. And this is also not an insignificant factor today, when citizens have a wide range of different costs; the increase in costs is linked to energy. Such aid for these food groups... what has now been presented by our colleagues... We, the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union, have also tabled the same proposals (a little later they will be seen). These are, in my opinion, very well-founded, and they should also be supported at the moment, in the light of these various experiences that we have already had with the introduction of a similar tax reduction. I therefore call for support to be given to this and also to future proposals relating to the introduction of a reduced rate of VAT on food, especially during this period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U128	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U129	I am, of course, also prepared for such a scientific discussion on this proposal. And although I have already listed how many different proposals for this draft budget have been put forward from the opposition (in practice, the elimination of all possible taxes!) , on meat and fish is worth discussing. And it is precisely why this proposal is not to be supported. In 2004, the Latvian Institute of Statistics was dissolved, which previously published a study on what categories of goods - food goods - are consumed by the population, in what proportion... Depending on the taxes on income: those with the lowest income will be the ones with the highest income. And the discovery was very amazing, but quite intuitive. That is, it turned out, for example, that the consumption of meat and fish in Dec-10, which is the population with higher incomes... 10 percent of the population with higher incomes... this demand is almost twice as high as 1st of December... 10 per cent of the lower income population. This has been the conclusion since then: those who are pursuing a scientific discussion on tax policy are, of course, taking these data into account and also based on why, for example, such a proposal has not been supported in these twenty or more years. Another thing I want... It is therefore the conclusion that, in fact, such a proposal would support the most prosperous part of society in a substantially larger, almost twice as large as the less prosperous part of society. An exception is the category of products that are so-called relatively cheaper or less valuable foods, such as vegetables. It is possible to scientifically base the discussion, which is based on the so-called Gifen effect, on the fact that, when household income falls or income falls in the general population, the demand for some goods is rising directly and their prices are rising. It is vegetables that are an example of this. Well, in the case of Latvia, for example, potatoes. So if there is more poverty, the price of potatoes tends to rise, because those who bought perhaps meat before now buy more potatoes. This is now the market effect that has been observed in economic science. Consequently, the debate on this chapter - vegetables - is to some extent scientifically justified - as such a balancing element in the common food category. But what is the concept of this budget? This budget concept is exactly how to help those who... a part of the company with a relatively lower income. Please combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U130	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U131	So... And how can this be done? This budget concept - rather than opt for inefficient ways, for example, to help the richer part of society by reducing the tax flat for all, for those who consume some product or service more... Well, here I have to mention, for example, the beards and all the others who're there... we will look further at who needs to reduce the tax... So - so that not they get proportionately more, but proportionately more get exactly the less prosperous part of society. And in this budget, it is implemented with a significant and, in my opinion, even in the history of Latvia, the biggest possible increase in the non-equitable minimum for both pensioners and workers - such an increase has never taken place yet, which is currently planned within the framework of the 3 × 500 plan. And that's the reason why, in the case of a very differentiated non-deductible minimum, it's a benefit... For example, travel up to 500 euros... 1 July of the following year... On the basis of 12 months, the benefit is some 30 euros per month - at a gross wage of 800 euros. Well, that's the average. But, of course, there are calculations for me as well... to all other categories of wages... Larger wages, of course, gradually reduce their effect on the rise of a differentiated non-equitable minimum. And that's EUR 360 a year. More people, then, stay on hand. And it's part of that society... and including pensioners for whom this budget leaves more money on hand. Of course, everything connected with pension indexation and so on... It is also helped by the family state allowance, which takes effect from 1 January. That money's on your hand... And this part of society, those who have lower incomes, they can continue to buy the categories of goods they've used to... what they are used to buying, so they don’t switch their menu, no matter what it sounds like, to relatively cheaper foods, as if they don’t have any income in the event of high prices. Consequently, in this budget it is dealt with much more effectively, this support for a less prosperous part of society - through the inequitable minimum, family state benefit... and all other mechanisms, such as non-budgetary mechanisms, such as pension indexation. It is these proposals, these political initiatives. I doubt whether anyone can argue that there is some more effective way of providing support to the less prosperous part of society, such as the purchase of food, than raising an unlimited minimum. I therefore call for this scientifically unsubstantiated proposal to be rejected, which... said it was scientifically proven... Why is it not inequality-reducing... and to support the budget as a whole aimed at reducing inequalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U132	The name of Member Eric Pucen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U133	Yeah, we just saw it, bright! - a Member who is guided only by Excel tables. And it's one of our biggest problems that Latvia's entire budget is made up of some Excel tables. But I would like to look at this matter a little differently and also remind us of what the Ministry of Agriculture has told us - that we... from the point of view of agriculture... should be seen as being able not only to receive payments of agricultural aid, but also to produce something. And for us to produce, we should support our entrepreneurs so that we do not see that the people of Latvia go across the border - to Lithuania - to buy food (e.g. meat, fish), but that they choose to buy it all here, to us - on our market. Of course, there is a part that buys it right here because they do not have the opportunity to go. And one aspect. Well, if we cut VAT directly on these groups of foods - meat, fish, eggs - people could afford to put quality food on the table much more often and it would probably also be Latvian-made food... not they should eat Maxima or Lidl any dairy products or meat substitutes - soya - and all kinds of fish products... the following products. I believe that people want to eat high-quality meat - meat grown in Latvia. And this reduction in VAT would encourage Latvian farmers to think about how to not only grow grain and pack on board ships... and the added value is very small, but look at how your business could be slightly broken down by raising both fish and cattle. Right now, from the country... we see that it will be difficult times for the cattle farming industry, because the country is not interested in this biological... cattle farmers. This proposal is aimed at making people start producing here even locally, in Latvia, and that we do not have to buy meat imported from other countries. Therefore, I call for support and not only to be guided by Excel tables, but perhaps this student has learned a good lesson from our finance minister Jānis Reira and has become obedient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U134	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U135	Dear colleagues, In my opinion, it is absolutely wrong to refer to 20-year-old studies and ignore the various types of analyses carried out by the Latvian University of Agriculture for almost 10 years, the last 10 years and... reference to the positive aspects in this area, where there are also research-based calculations for this offer that - quite the other way around - it will bring positive benefits. And that's the other way around... At the moment we understand that the coalition rejects this proposal because 20 years ago there has been some research into the fact that meat and fish are a more prosperous diet... more use it, but at the same time ignores the current reality that not only is the story about consumers, there is also a story about entrepreneurs and the fact that entrepreneurs are increasing tax payments to the state budget, which I think is no less important in this area. Mr Feldman has just said that we are, so to speak, distributing money, giving people back, but how to get that money back to the budget, you are not thinking, and that is your problem. These proposals are both intended to help citizens and to achieve... return that money to the budget. Now there are a number of studies... Public organizations, LASP, Latvian University of Agriculture have analysed these issues, scientists have touched them, based on current trends in tax policy, which has produced results. Instead, it is ignored and the coalition refers to 20-year-old research. Sixteen thousand people are rejected because 20 years ago there has been a study that people with higher incomes eat more meat. Shame, colleagues! Shame!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U136	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U137	Thank you. Well, here's... The debate is very interesting. What's better - white or round? You spoke, Mr Feldman, about raising an inequitable minimum. Of course, this is a very positive step; indeed, it is one effective way to combat poverty, but this is about something else. This is about protecting the interests of consumers and protecting the interests of producers. This is about opportunities for competition and the ability to compete in a highly saturated European food market for our local producers. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported and nevertheless try to argue not in a linear way, but to think about a complex and more effective situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U138	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U139	Colleagues, it is actually very interesting to see how the results of the study can lead to a final misconception. Why? It is only logical that the richest people can afford to buy a much more expensive product, i.e. meat and fish, so in their menu it is meat and fish that eat, say, more... I'm a basket. Of course, low-income households will probably also be able to afford to buy salmon or trout, only when Maxima or Rimi have discounts. And it's only logical that, as a result of research, these products reach a lower level in the quintiles of these categories and are much less consumed. I don't see any logic here. Of course, if people had more money, they could also afford to buy meat and fish. If I had no money, I bought potatoes, carrots, and cabbages, and I ate them, I apologize. This also leads to the results of the study, but the correct conclusions need to be drawn accordingly. Why the reduced rate of value added tax on food and essential goods is being used by very rich countries of the old European Union, such as Liechtenstein and Luxembourg... Where is the rate of value added tax reduced in order to ensure access for less-favoured people to these categories of goods? And, colleagues, on statistics and on which group of people has accumulated savings. I assume that yes, Mr Feldman's and his party's members and other members of the Saeima have increased their savings and have reached millions and billions that they may not know where to spend. Mr. Feldman probably chooses the funds to invest in one of the new companies or shares because they have extra...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U140	Colleagues, I call on one another not to talk about another, but to debate proposals!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U141	And talking about the proposal. If we analyse and look at data on the income level of Latvian households, then it is necessary to say that in Latvia a third or 36 percent of Latvian households have experienced at least once in the last year a situation where they do not have sufficient financial resources to cover their daily basic needs. Compared to 2017, the share of such households has increased by four percentage points. And it is precisely the result of the work of coalition politicians, it is thanks to Mr Feldman. Now we are talking about price increases for food products. There are experts who say that the price increase for food is simply dramatic and will continue to do so. What does that mean? This means that these 36 percent of Latvian households will be increasingly difficult and difficult to live, their quality of life will get worse, and that is exactly what we should thank you, Mr Feldman. Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U142	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U143	Listening to the opinions of our coalition colleague about a scientifically sound approach, I remember... Anecdote, an analogue anecdote that describes this situation... A scientific experiment was conducted with fleas. She said, “Leck!” She jumps. Then she took her legs off and said, “Leck!” She doesn't jump. So the conclusion is that if fleas take their legs off, she loses her hearing. Those conclusions were about similar - those we heard about the use of meat - because indeed, as the previous speaker rightly pointed out, the less prosperous part of society does not eat meat, not because they were vegetarians, but because they simply cannot afford it. And such a proposal - to reduce VAT on fresh meat - to make this product more accessible to them once, while for the wealthier part it will hardly change eating habits, they will not start to consume more fresh products because they are already using as much as they want. As this amendment would directly target the less prosperous part of society, making these products more accessible. The first plus here is that we make this fresh product more accessible to the public than other products, so we give them... healthier eating habits, which in turn means higher quality of life for them and lower spending on our budget on health expenditure. But it's not so hard to understand, but it's basic. Go on. Fresh product - this means, first of all, domestic product, and that means that we make our local producers more competitive with such amendments, it is once again an additional revenue in the budget. It's simple and logically understandable, isn't it, colleagues? And it is not just easy to understand, it also has factual evidence. At the same time, we did this with reduced VAT on vegetables and fruit. I remember the same debate... how the Ministry of Finance came with its exascale tabular, told us about the negative fiscal impact and so on. At the end, everything proved to be the opposite: such a reduction has had a positive fiscal impact. These are the reasons I have already mentioned. So we are talking here not only about direct positive fiscal effects, but also about indirect: we are making eating habits healthier. So, in my opinion, it is a very logical and welcome proposal. On the other hand, if we are talking about the indecent income that has been touched by the debate here, it is, of course, one of the ways in which the poorest can be helped, but it is not the most effective way, because it concerns everyone. It would be better to target it, but if we were talking about how best to take care of the poorest ones, then that is, by strengthening our economy, making our economies more productive, enabling us to create more added value here on the ground, from which we would have more money to share by paying taxes. Not as you are doing now - you are actually doing this now at the expense of the deficit. EUR 1.7 billion, more than EUR 1.7 billion in budget deficits. It's about, roughly taking, 14 percent of the money borrowed... from the entire budget. It's nothing! And why are you doing this? Because you want to buy the votes before the elections, a few months before the elections, your sudden promises will be fulfilled, which, in principle, is not a fulfillment of any promises. You just borrowed the money that you will then make others give back to you and tell you how good you were. To buy the voices again! This is your concern for the poor, when it comes to this strategy of an inequitable minimum that you have chosen, to buy busy votes before the elections, which these same people will then have to give up. That's all of me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U144	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U145	Colleagues! By reducing value added tax on fresh products, we are clearly providing support for local producers, as the speakers have already said, because we know that for fresh products... often they cannot be taken from a distance of 20 thousand kilometres, in particular fresh meat and dairy products. So that often we can buy it in stores... So it's mostly... of course, with exceptions, but most of all it is aid to local producers. The second argument is that ‘for’. If the Head of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy mentions that this is not for people with lower incomes, I would like to say that it is precisely support for people with lower incomes, the poorest part of society. I would allow us not to talk about this if the unlimited minimum had already been introduced at the beginning of 2019 (as was promised among other things when some party was going to the elections) rather than two months before the next parliamentary elections. Then people would probably have had more money in their wallet, because the inexpensive minimum of EUR 500 is what would have been necessary at this particular moment... for at least one and a half years, for two years Latvian society... not as a Christmas gift. But going on for five percent of VAT. We see shares advertised by traders, especially supermarkets. There are specific sales objects in our capital (in particular, it applies to the whole of Latvia), where there is a campaign... we see these lenses... routes for seniors, especially pensioners, where people are ready to go through several free public transport through Riga (paid by others - other taxpayers) so that they can buy milk for five cents per litre cheaper, because this income for seniors is very, very small... which are left to them after all taxes and public utility charges have been paid, especially at this time, when energy prices are cosmically high and this decision is being taken by the poets... These monthly payments of EUR 20 do not cover this at all. Helping at this point in time, reducing VAT on food, fresh products is vital for everyone. This is important for producers, especially the vulnerable part of society. Colleagues, we also bear in mind that such a proposal, logically, will not be forever... and there will be no such rule. We will come out of the crisis, the economic recovery, hopefully this will be, and we will be able to return to either the old or some other value added tax rate. But this moment, the moment of the crisis itself, coming closer as well... to a certain holiday feeling... I think it's such a little incentive for people to wait for the new year... With January would probably be an opportunity to buy more or in any case no less than now he can buy with that money... part of the salary or part of the pension that he has every month... remains on your hand. Therefore, please, colleagues, support the specific proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U146	The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U147	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Hello, Madam President of the Saeima. I would like to remind you a little bit of the background: three years ago, I and my colleagues have already tabled a similar proposal. The difference was that the period of validity was 10 days. I regret that I have heard from my opponents' colleagues the opposite argument that we have been lobbying the big corporations, Maxima and Rimi. That was the rhetoric at that time. These people not so long ago advertised - during a pandemic - that you need to take care of people in Lidl's stores. Yes, it is good that we have such a shop, it is very good that we have some kind of competition between shops, but why is it that at Lidl, despite the fact that today there are minus three degrees, people are still standing - standing on the streets and freezing? Five cents, right? The previous speaker added that because people have five cents of milk ready to stand in queues - they stand for 30-40 minutes, for hours, for hours to buy milk. But what else I wanted to say. When you raised the minimum wage (very well - we had to be high wages), but there was a very high pressure on entrepreneurs despite that... they had to pay people more, but the turnover did not grow. With all the pilots, with all the emergency situations, the situation was getting worse, the turnover for entrepreneurs only dropped, production dropped. Where to take money to pay people wages? As if it is necessary to raise prices, there is some need to compensate for the difference. Secondly. We see all... Every day we drive and see how fuel prices change. Somehow they have to be compensated. To produce one product, however, it consists of some costs: from pay, from warehouse, from fuel, from relocation, from storage. All prices have grown at a very high pace. But I have to understand... I don't know where the logic is. Where people are left with reason, mind - prices are rising, food becomes more expensive... Are we really taking care of people? This is a symbolic gesture that could release... make life a better, better quality for some people. It is a primary need for food. And we do not support it. What are we taking care of? Every day, people die to us. Now, what generation is growing to us? What can we offer them? Correctly said that in the more developed countries, there have long been zero or five percent of the first need for food... and fresh. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U148	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U149	The Commission did not support the 6th proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U150	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - the proposal tabled by Members Gürgen, Papule, Dombrovskis and Pucene! Please, let's vote! For - 31, for - 51, for - 1. The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, Time for the hour break. I would like to inform you that we are planning today to work with 15 minutes breaks, from 2.30 p.m. to 4 p.m., 4.15 p.m. to 5.30 p.m. and 17.4 p.m. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. Interruption until 2.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U151	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! On 15 November 2021, the Saeima shall hold a remote emergency sitting. See ‘Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act’ in the draft law. We are going on with proposal 7. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U152	7. - a proposal from Members Girgen, Papule, Dombrovsky and Pucken. A reduction in the VAT rate for beauty services is envisaged. The proposal was rejected by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U153	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U154	Good afternoon, colleagues! After a break, we shall continue with proposal 7. In this proposal, I intend to reduce the rate of VAT interest for a sector which is one of the most affected by the Covid-19 crisis. We are talking about the beauty industry. It is no secret that this industry has suffered the most from these... because decisions that come from government have never benefited it. We can take some or, for example, this month, a time of piloting, when the sector was completely paralyzed. With today's beauty industry can get back to work, but the question is: shouldn't these employees, entrepreneurs shouldn't have known what support mechanisms they should have done? It is no secret that they have sat down for a whole month, and the question is, ‘ What are they to support their family, for which they have to pay for the taxes that have accumulated in previous periods? ’ There was no reply from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and no specific deadlines either. I believe that the Ministry of Economics at this time of the pandemic... when he could have been ready... has done everything possible to destroy all these sectors, including the beauty industry. This proposal is one of the additional ways of encouraging the sector to develop and achieve positive economic indicators... and one of the main reasons is, of course, the ability to get out of the shadow economy. It is no secret that the field of beauty is one that needs to work more... and it is precisely to improve cooperation between the beauty industry and, let us say, both the government and the Saeima, but the existing decisions do not, unfortunately, contribute to this, and I do not think that this sector will now be acceptable and will be willing to cooperate in the future. I therefore call on you to assess the possibility of granting tax relief - five per cent - because I believe that this is currently one of the most necessary steps that we should take... introduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U155	Name of Member Evia Papulei. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U156	Madam President, colleagues. It is no secret that it is the beauty industry during the community that has suffered to some extent from a lack of hearing of two ministers... skills. That's what I mean, "the most careful"... and the least listened to the beauty industry, several associations are represented by the Minister of Health, who, from the beginning, from the beginning of the community's disease and restrictions, has imposed the greatest restrictions on beauty. And this sector, let us not hide, is one of the first to be most careful and most meticulous in a wide range of epidemiological restrictions in order to be able to work and work legally. The other minister is, of course, an economic minister who has not shown any... to a certain extent of interest, except for such... State benefits and such short-term solutions have probably thought that this sector will then be able to exist. And yet the Minister of Economics has not taken care of the employees of this sector (based on women - so workers) so that they can work legally, not reinstate in the shadow economy, underground or otherwise. Once again, our proposal would now support the beauty industry in two respects. Firstly, not to inspire people into the shadow economy and allow them to work legally... So the industry, I repeat again what's more dull... one of the sectors most closely observed and will certainly continue to be observed in the future (A sound defect.) ... restrictions. At the same time, this sector needs support in the cooperative's response process. Like we talked about tourism... In this case, it will be quite difficult to call back beauty specialists to work in Latvia rather than outside Latvia, where situations of the community, to say, respect, prevention and management are much more successful... than our government and coalition have succeeded... to return to work in Latvia and - I would emphasise - legally! I call for support to this proposal, thus supporting small entrepreneurs (not for nothing for the women's family) in terms of small entrepreneurs in order to support Latvian entrepreneurs and to support professionals in the same sector who, once again, have met the epidemiological restrictions most carefully and carefully. I call for support and repeat: our proposals call for support for entrepreneurs in Latvia, yes, small entrepreneurs, but they also generate economic activity, which depends on the praised GDP of Mr Reira. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U157	Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U158	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Indeed, if we are talking about reducing the rate of value added tax for beauty service providers, we need to understand the time when we are doing so. We well remember that among these waves of the Covid-19 pandemic crises, government representatives came with a very loud tax reform, including people working in the field of beauty... and indeed, as Mrs Papules said, these are basically women who have been employed in this area, and who, many years ago, thanks to the decisions of previous governments, came out... many, many came out of the shadow economy, worked in the so-called white regime, paid all taxes because the taxes were due, nobody had to hide anything, no turnover, people could live a normal, respectful life, and ultimately the prices for these services were... payable to customers. We remember what happened quite recently with the so-called tax reform - a new tax has been imposed on many... non-negotiable taxes for many professionals in the field at a very difficult time. And what we are seeing and hearing right now (I think it is very many that hear) is that there are people in the field - not everyone - who, in order to maintain their existence, have their own viability to make something a little more to pay off electricity bills and buy food, are ready to work for the country in a completely, absolutely invisible regime, without showing any turnover, no taxes. In my view, this is a very, very bad signal that we are sending to people who, in order to survive, have been forced into the direct sense of the word... not behind good will, because it brings enormous stress to both them, their clients and their loved ones... And their way of life... We are forcing them back into the shadow economy. And that's not right. Therefore, reducing VAT to five per cent is a small step, an opportunity to maintain this employment regime, for the people of this sector... the possibility to work in normal, open mode. And after all, there is also some way of balancing the potential tax burden that is added to us during the pandemic period. Colleagues, this is a very rational proposal. It is a pity that we do not hear from the responsible area or from the coalition, why it has been rejected, which are the arguments why we reject the support of people in such a sensitive area. In fact, we are driving their service into the shadow economy. Colleagues, five percent reduced value added tax is a small step, but in the right direction. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U159	I closed the debate. Mrs. Steel, will you comment on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U160	In the Commission, the proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U161	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - That's what Mr. Girgen, Mr. Papule, Mr. Dombrovsky and Mr. Piceen's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U162	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. Provision is made for a reduction in the rate of VAT on fresh meat, dairy products and eggs. The proposal was rejected by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U163	Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! - 23, 51, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U164	9. - a proposal from Members Girgen, Papule, Dombrovsky and Pucken. A reduction in the VAT rate for electricity, its transmission, distribution and the cost of the OIC component is envisaged. The proposal was rejected by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U165	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U166	Very respectful head of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, I think none of you have great news that there is an energy crisis in the world. Every citizen of Latvia who has already received or will probably soon receive new electricity bills, where the average electricity bill will increase more than twice for the average household; for natural gas, where the price of natural gas on world markets has increased more than five times... Although, I think, the increase in the bill will not be five times, it will, however, be very important. And, of course, for the residents of Riga, given that the heat is produced TEC and the heat is produced using natural gas, the heating bills will increase significantly. So the bills for gas, electricity, heat. That's not gonna end all this. It is clear that the rise in energy prices, as well as other factors, will lead to, and are already contributing to, the cost of living, the increase in inflation. Already today, we see that, despite the fact that only two months ago, the government had thought in all its wisdom and competence that inflation would be around two percent this year, data from the Central Statistical Office show that inflation is already six percent and perhaps eight percent this year, depending on how severe winter will be and what future energy prices will be. That's all... If inflation reaches eight percent, it means that households... medium... Real income of Latvian citizens will not increase this year, as the average nominal increase in wages is estimated to be around 8 percent. If we are talking about pensioners, given that this cost-of-life basket is different for the pensioner than for the average citizen (the pensioner's consumption is much higher both for public payments and for food), already today... you can say for this moment that the pensioner, the average pensioner, real income this year... real purchasing power has already decreased. This reduction could probably be very significant as energy prices continue to rise. When it comes to electricity prices, many people could be protected for the time being - if they have a so-called fixed tariff, their electricity prices could remain unchanged until the end of this year, but in January at the latest, they will receive new bills. I doubt that what the government has done in providing support for protected users and in allocating EUR 20 per month to fully vaccinated pensioners... I doubt that it will be enough to compensate low-income and pensioners for the rise in the prices of these energy sources. Our proposal is to reduce the VAT rate on natural gas and electricity. This is the average household (Sound defect.) ... the bill would be reduced by about six euros per month. In this way we will show real support, real help to all Latvian citizens. I invite you to support me (A sound defect.) ... If you do not support it, you will regret - if not today, then at the latest in January.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U167	The debate is over. Name of Member Evia Papulei. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U168	Thank you. Madam President, colleagues. In addition to what my colleague said, I would like to remind you that here a few hours ago, the head of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, proud of the increased benefits for Latvian citizens, including family benefits, debated. I just want to remind you of one thing: even these few annexes, which each family definitely appreciates... and yet, overall, the annexes are still much lower than those of the European Union, where they are still in OECD countries. So at this point... The head of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is unlikely to be proud of it, seeing - probably he has also received invoices - that the bills actually coming to these large families right now... together with possible increases in support and benefits format... they won't cover these bills. Second. If we look at the pensioners. The €20 supplement for pensioners will also not cover the amount of payments they will pay, including electricity, over a period of a few months. I would therefore like to say that it is probably one thing to be proud of, but, looking at this proposal, I also call for support because this aid has a fixed period of time, so it is natural in this difficult time, including winter. We're looking at the fact that the bills are growing, the bills are already getting bigger than perhaps the pensioners and... including families, large families, we now hope to pay. I therefore call for support to really help a number of socially, perhaps sensitive groups pay bills and support these people. Then probably the economy in Latvia could be in safe hands, not just to spread with increases that do not cover current bills... Right now. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U169	The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U170	Colleagues, when considering all these proposals on reduced VAT, but of course there will be another proposal, there is an unpleasant conclusion: Latvia's government is unfortunately not tended to reduce taxes on citizens so that they can overwinter this... the difficult period. Before... We have put forward a proposal on tourist accommodation, just like - on catering, on beauty. I think no one can doubt that these sectors have been hit hardest and that they need help. We see the experience of other countries - Germany... the same Lithuania, which has reduced VAT to nine percent, but we still... our government remains with these entrepreneurs to still pay 21 per cent, regardless of how hard they are to go. We have now reached electricity. We can find many different examples, as governments are currently active in other countries to help their citizens. Unfortunately, this action, which we have seen, is just EUR 20 for vaccinated pensioners... But the reality is unfortunately very harsh. As an example, I can mention my bills - what the price of electricity is at the moment. If there was a prior agreement on, let us say, the advantageous tariff, where we have to pay between two and six cents for a kilowatt-hour, then a letter was sent recently (a few months ago): now we cannot secure such a price, it is unfavorable for us, so we increase to nine cents per kilowatt-hour. It was not until one month when a new letter came: from 1 December we can no longer provide nine cents, and unfortunately we will have to pay even more, almost double, that is, 15 cents. You can at the moment impose various non-equitable minimums, yet other support mechanisms, but unfortunately these costs are difficult to cover, especially for pensioners, for the disadvantaged. Food is becoming more expensive, electricity is becoming more expensive, and as of 1 January prices in many cities will increase also for heat. So the question is, how will the government and the Saeima act and how will they help? At the moment, unfortunately, the situation is rather harsh. Neither the Saeima nor the government supports our proposals, nor does it direct any proposals on its own as they could help. I also call on you: perhaps the chairman of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy could join in and tell you what his vision is, how to overwinter the population... this winter, when inflation is rising and all bills are rising. As is known, the draft law on the abolition of the OIC has been passed on to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy... where this issue is still stuck, and the new Conservative Party has every opportunity to put this bill on the agenda and abolish the OIC, which could help to reduce bills. Unfortunately, we do not see such actions, and I have the idea that nothing will be done. Unfortunately, neither government nor coalition partners in the Saeima... does not seem to support the people of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U171	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U172	Dear Members of the Coalition! This time I appeal to you and hope that you still have some self-preserve instinct, survival instinct. I know very well that you, even in the vicinity of your government, are watching, for example, today's "Nothing Personal" show about the closed government sitting... you also have very big questions about the competence of your government. I am not talking now about everything that happens to the pandemic, but why do you think that this competence is somehow... bigger if we are talking about other important issues, such as, for example, the same energy poverty, because, you see, your government is completely behind this rise in energy prices. Submitting First... the draft budget, there was nothing intended at all to help, to support citizens. It was only after some time that support was provided for low-income families, so-called protected users, but it is a relatively small group of people, but this price increase is huge, it will affect absolutely every household. And you will have more and more questions, too, specifically. These questions will be asked because of the rise in inflation, the rapid increase, your government is also lying down, completely lying down. So those questions will be asked. This will now be the fourth time you will reject this proposal and then you will not be sufficient to replace “including” with “including” or “including” with “including”. You're gonna close this way for yourself. And there will be consequences...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U173	Mr. Dombrovskis, I'm sorry, time's up. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U174	Colleagues, in addition to the above, that... If we look... on the areas that are currently most affected by the various limitations of our country... they are not just catering, not just accommodationers, as Mr. Girgen said, but every man, she... a member of the household, who currently has really extreme increases in energy prices. It is not only electricity but - as well as in further proposals - it is total energy, which ultimately has a huge impact on virtually all... also to inflation in the country, to the first-needed products, to food products, to services, to a wide, wide range of... because they are fixed-term, reasonably fixed-term, interest reductions for value added tax, this is one of the most rational steps that can be taken at the moment, given that there is no reasonable support for the companies affected by the crisis, and that many people still have no financial compensation. And among other things, zero, as I read, received a message from a businessman who is interested in these idle benefits, about this subsidised part of the salary for October (too emphasis!) what the government has promised to pay to the affected, limited companies... When interested, when this could happen, it would only be possible to submit requests to the State Revenue Service from 22 November. This means that pay-out will take place even later. If the businessman asks: “What do I do?” The State Revenue Service formally answers: “We order from management – pay everything as agreed.” But then what can he do? Then ask the employee for cash back so he withdraws the account and returns... when you receive this benefit. Is that normal? Of course, it is good that the State Revenue Service honestly says this. Obviously as a result of the failure of the government, but society suffers from it and, as a result, human solvency... and energy costs, transmission costs, total energy without which a man can not. If you don't pay your electricity bills, you'll just switch off the power feed. Many have not only a refrigerator and a stove with electricity, many people also have electricity heating at home. Therefore, colleagues, reductions in electricity prices, fixed-term reductions, obviously on... Indeed, this last wave, hopefully, the last wave of the community... on my own head... is vital for our society. I therefore join those who call for support for such a proposal. If there is a better proposal from the government or from the coalition, please say what is a better proposal. Will these 20 euro-stots to seniors really compensate for all the charge? No, he won't. We are already hearing about these curves and also getting constant messages from energy retailers both on our phones and in e-mails about changes in electricity prices. It's a very big rise. It is clear that this rise is global, it is not just the result of local activities. The whole of Europe and the half world are currently facing an energy crisis, but if we look at how other countries are fighting it, including through value added tax... Therefore, colleagues, I call for the vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U175	The name of Member Eric Pucen. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U176	Hello, fellow Members, again! I would like to touch on this issue of rising electricity prices. We do not yet know when this rise will stop, and this proposal that we, the Republic, put forward, is intended to slow down this rapid rise. But when electricity is expensive, we see that everything that is linked will be expensive. And we know that small domestic producers, farmers, small entrepreneurs operating - all of whom they produce (whether honey, milk or cheese) will have to bear an even greater proportion of energy expenditure, because it only rises and rises. And now they're in such a vicious circle that in the end their product will cost almost as much in Switzerland, because spending is high, but people's purchasing power is falling. This generous gift that the government has given pensioners... Why, then, do not other people who have not vaccinated deserve this gift? Have they not paid taxes? Therefore, as colleagues, I very much call for support for this proposal, which would perhaps stop the gas prices or at least reduce and reduce the rise in food prices, because all this is linked. We do not want many to be so much less on the table than usual. I call for support, and in particular I call on the National Association, which has always stood up for values, to be a family. This proposal not only supports single people or pensioners, but also families. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U177	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U178	Thank you, colleagues. It must be understood that inflation is continuing to rise. And despite the government's assertions, it already goes beyond any previously planned limits. It will certainly continue to climb, which automatically means that less and less money is left in human masks. If we look at our neighbours, we will see that Estonia has officially declared that it is freezing the rise in energy prices. The total income generated by the sale of CO2 allowances by the Estonian State will be directed towards covering this difference between the increase in energy prices and the cost to people. It is a step of a responsible and forward-looking government and politicians, thinking not only of the low-income, as Latvian politicians claim and how the offer to pay 20 euros to those low-income and pensioners who have vaccinated will obviously not improve the economic situation in the country as a whole. Of course, it could be evil to rejoice and say that the more public tension and frustration will be, the more people will turn away from the representatives and politicians of the ruling political parties and the more they will support the opposition. But it must be understood that, in fact, the peace of society, social peace and well-being of society are not just the responsibility of the ruling politicians and the task of the ruling politicians... Ensure stability in society. This also needs to be done by members of the opposition. This proposal is directly economic and justified, and it would allow our country to maintain social peace, at least on an elemental level, and to ensure that there is at least a minimum degree of competitiveness compared to neighbouring Estonia. Unfortunately, Estonia's joint decision to freeze energy prices will clearly refer to the entire Estonian economy. Why? Because Estonian cafes, Estonian hotels, Estonian medical services, beauty services will be cheaper than in Latvia. They will be more accessible to both Estonian society and Latvia. I think the fact that part of the Latvian population living in Valka already declares their address and place of residence in Estonia, Valga, is a very striking example of the fact that Latvian citizens choose to declare, consider themselves declared in Estonia, because of the availability of medical services, because of the availability of social security and because of the quality of life. Very many Valmiera residents are travelling and working in Estonia because they get more pay there and are better able to provide their families with it. Indeed, the minimum that our politicians and our government could do is to reduce value added tax on the resource in question. This is the minimum we can do to ensure stability and minimum competitiveness. It is clear that we are lagging behind Estonia. We are lagging behind with more and more each year. We are at the forefront only in the shadow economy and also in the number of officials per capita, but in the categories of support, in the competitiveness of citizens' well-being, the economy, tax policy, we are still still at the bottom. It is time to reflect on all of this and then to answer for their decisions. I therefore believe that we should support a reduction in the price of resources through a reduced rate of value added tax on electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U179	The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U180	Today, I may turn to the people and those who are now listening to the Saeima. Let me know. I looked at the electricity bill, which was in March, and which one, for example, is in October this year. Apparently, the price was about nine cents per kilowatt. In October, this one kilowatt had already cost 15 cents. This means that your bills since last winter, since March, can be said (April is a spring)... but this year has almost doubled. This means only one that in the current situation, where VAT is 21 per cent, the state budget will receive twice as much VAT as it was at the beginning of the year. I do not think that each of us is able to reduce our electricity consumption twice as much as it was at the beginning of the year. That, I think, is impossible. With this I would like to say that the state budget will have twice as much money as possible. If value added tax were reduced to five per cent, the State's revenue in the budget would be equal to what it was at the beginning of the year and what it might have been predicted. The country really does not lose anything from it. But one thing needs to be remembered: at a time when citizens pay the country twice as much VAT, we will certainly see another exit from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and from Minister Wittenberg on the reduction of the OIC, which he also recently made, namely that the OIC will drop by 60 percent. But the reality is quite different. You have paid it for VAT, and this part of the money will go to cover the OIC. So look at what's happening at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U181	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mrs. Steel, or what will you comment on?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U182	The Commission did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U183	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - That's what Mr. Girgen, Mr. Papule, Mr. Dombrovsky and Mr. Piceen's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U184	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from Members Girgen, Papule, Dombrovsky and Pucken. A reduction in the VAT rate on natural gas is envisaged. The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U185	Members to debate... Members have applied. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U186	Dear colleagues, I remember very well the events of 2007-2008. I will remind those parliamentary colleagues who are too young to remember something from that time on. These were years when, at least from a government perspective, inflation suddenly increased suddenly and more often and more frequently asked questions about the causes of this inflation, why all this has happened, what it is or is not possible to do. As we know at least today, this inflation turned out to be rather stable, and the initial increase in prices, of course, led to an increase in wages, because, seeing the cost of living, people, workers, demands higher wages for themselves. This is absolutely natural and logical. We will also see, either today or tomorrow, those government proposals where high-ranking officials demand more pay - the President of Latvia, Prime Minister, Ministers, high-ranking officials and so on - all demand higher wages. And what you're doing now with all their compulsory vaccinations and that there's probably about five, ten percent of the workforce that chooses either to go to the unemployed, to sickness benefits, in the shadow... either how... This will, of course, not help in terms of labour availability, and all this will add up salaries. And then there will be a spiral of so-called prices and wages. Initial inflation leads to an increase in remuneration, and, of course, an increase in remuneration, given that it is labour costs for any product or service, leads to even higher inflation. It turns out that this inflation will become sustainable. Why do I tell you all this, colleagues? Because then, questions about why inflation has appeared, what has done or not done, what has fallen asleep - these questions will be asked all the time, and you, honourable coalition colleagues, have quite a great risk of finding yourself, so to speak, on the wrong side of history. Remember how it was. Maybe some of you are too young to remember nothing special... As was named one Minister for Finance. Colleagues, if this scenario is played in such a way that this inflation, which is now considered by economists by the Bank of Latvia and so on, is considered to be one-off because everything that has happened: the correlation of factors, circumstances in energy markets, problems with logistics and so on... but if this inflation proves to be persistent and you do everything that the nothing special government did at that time - a high budget deficit, a rapid rise in high officials' salaries - you will be blaming exactly everything that the nothing special government in its time has criticised. You'll just become a sinner for all of this. People, the Saeima, the government that has laid down inflation, the spiral of inflation wages, the deterioration of international competitiveness and so on, and it's still... There are ways to prevent it or at least amortize it. It's not possible to eliminate it completely, but... I ask you to combine the times of the debate, if possible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U187	The times of your debate are united. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U188	Thank you. But in terms of what can be done to reduce their inflation with salt. I am afraid, my fellow Members, that its recipes have not changed, that is what I quote to you about the former Minister for Economic Affairs, Krišjānis Kariņš, who proposed a reduction in the rate of VAT on food, considering that this would reduce inflation by at least two percent. I can remind you of the former head of government, Valdis Dombrovskis, who reduced the VAT rate in order to get inflation down and thus fulfil the conditions for entering the euro area. These techniques have not changed. Given that the main epicenter of this inflation is in the meantime! - there are energy prices, you really have no other way out of the way to lower the VAT rate on energy prices. This is, I would say, your opportunity not to position yourself in history as another nothing special government and the ruling coalition that has laid down both this inflation and all the consequences that it will have. I understand, of course, that you are the leaders of your political groups and so on that, given that this proposal was originally put forward by the members of the opposition, it must not now be supported in any way so as not to lose your face and so on... What you're talking about. But think about yourself. Think about yourself! You think you will keep your face now in the short term without supporting this proposal, but you will lose your face for years, at least this is a very high risk for you. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U189	The name of Member Eric Pucen. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U190	Of course, I am looking at this proposal a little bit through the prism of agriculture. We know that there are a lot of grain farmers in Latvia, and in order to ripen the harvest, in order to dry, these farmers have to work for them. There are those who do it with a chip, but a very large part of it has been modernised, and they have to use natural gas. By following the scenario, if natural gas becomes more expensive, the product that they produce, i.e. the dried grains, is priced. We will see it as a pyramid, as a link in the chain. In the future, we will see very high prices for pasta and oats flakes, and in the end, we will end up seeing that bread will already be an exclusive product, because all these energy resources will remain so expensive that our basic products will remain more expensive and more expensive. Or we will end up buying only foreign products, which are not Latvian products anymore, and it is very, very sad. I therefore call for support for Latvian farmers not to raise prices for their products and to be able to provide raw materials right here to Latvian producers. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U191	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U192	Thank you. There is no doubt that this proposal should be supported, because indeed the increase in gas prices is terrible. But I want to ask a question: are there other ways of solving this problem? I think it is. The Hungarian Government set an example of what can and must be done in such circumstances. There's a second question. Is our government bold enough to take such steps? I'm afraid it's not. This proposal is therefore to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U193	I closed the debate. Please comment on behalf of the Commission, Mrs Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U194	The Commission rejected the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U195	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - That's what Mr. Girgen, Mr. Papule, Mr. Dombrovsky and Mr. Piceen's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Proposal 10 is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U196	11. - the proposal of the Group of the Greens/Family Union on the inclusion of house management services in non-taxable services. The proposal was rejected by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U197	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U198	Dear President, Dear colleagues, The Greens/Farmers' Union proposal provides for a home administration service, in accordance with the provisions of the management contract, not to be subject to value added tax. If we look at this, Section 52 of the Law explicitly states the tax-exempt supply of goods and services, service groups and also services provided to citizens related to the rental of residential premises, therefore it is quite logical and understandable, given all the above mentioned and discussed increases in the price of primary goods and energy, that at least in this section the State achieves the opposite that people do not have to pay value added tax in connection with the expenditure of house administration and administration, as is the case with the rent of residential premises. Therefore, colleagues, in our view, this is indeed a correction of errors that should have already been done, perhaps even earlier than in this budget, but it is never too late to recognise errors and correct them. Colleagues, I call for support for the proposal in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U199	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mrs. Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U200	The budget and financial (tax) commission did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U201	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! - 30, 52, abstaining. - No. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U202	12. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It is envisaged to exclude VAT from the benefit of the right to land use. The proposal has been partially supported and included in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U203	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U204	13. - the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which provides for the exclusion of VAT from the treatment of services arising from land-use rights. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U205	Members have requested a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 71, for - 1, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U206	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of Member Regina Ločmele, which provides for The proposal was rejected by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U207	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U208	Hello, colleagues! As we know, no opposition proposal was supported in this budget. No one - neither the proposals that reduce the burden on our citizens, nor those that make life easier for our businesses. My proposal is precisely on this second very important topic. So, as in a situation of increasing inflation in times of crisis, our entrepreneurs, despite the delay in the state's support mechanisms under the Covid-19 restraint, are still trying to continue their business. No one in Europe is secret that Latvia is a country of micro-enterprises, but we still have a name such as “average and small business”, because according to standards set by the European Commission 90 percent of Latvian enterprises will be counted only by micro-enterprises. And only one percentage is in line with European standards for medium-sized enterprises. So that's 90 percent. In previous government times, when the Minister for Finance was a representative of the Greens/Farmers' Union, the threshold for micro-enterprises was reduced, so companies with annual revenues of less than EUR 40 000 were assimilated to them... they had to take account of the fact that, as soon as they reach the threshold of 40 000 per year, they had to register for VAT at once. That threshold was 50,000 before. Given, for example, that inflation has already reached six per cent this year, it could be considered that even more micro-enterprises have to register as VAT payers, despite the fact that these revenues do not allow them to raise wages for their employees or invest in development, thinking about the future of their business. My proposal was an attempt to understand whether the government is aware of the need to support micro-enterprises that make up 90 per cent of our companies in the country. That we... micro-enterprises... in the country... At European level... it must receive any minimum support from the State. We have already created a budget that is already past, one that essentially destroys micro-enterprises. Now we do so that we do not see these companies at all. We do not see those people who are fighting for their family business, about their private practices, trying to survive even more in situations where now... we see that one month has passed since the first restrictions, but there is no information for people either in the State Revenue Service or in the ministries, when they will be paid the idle benefits and so on. I propose that this threshold be reduced by 10 000 only, returning it to the previous state of one government in the past. The next government and the next Saeima will need to think about the next tax reform, because we are approaching an overheating of the economy, a major crisis that will be absolutely impossible without tax reform. Please support my proposal, show that you understand how you can mitigate the crisis that already exists and the major crisis that is expected in our economy - our micro-enterprises in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U209	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U210	Dear President, Dear colleagues, The proposal by Commissioner Lochmele really concerns the companies that are the most typical in our country. But in this respect, I would like to inform you that the current Latvian Government has, for the first time, formally recognised the existence of an economic crisis in our country. The European Union's Cohesion Policy Programme 2021-2027, entitled "This official document, developed by the Ministry of Finance and signed by Jānis Reirs, shows, among other things, the following fact (quot): "The economic crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic restrictions will have a significant impact on Latvia's economy and society. At the moment, the impact is difficult to predict because there is uncertainty about the development of the pandemic and the further potential impact on the world, European Union and Latvian economies.” End of quote. It is enough to walk along the main streets of the centre of Riga, even on the street of Brīvības, to see a huge number of empty windows with the inscription “Isere”. There are no more small shops, cafes, barber shops, workshops. The crisis, which was forced to recognise Karina's government in two years' time, hit small businesses most seriously, but it is this sector that creates a comfortable urban environment for Rigans and other cities. Without small business, not only the real estate sector, but also the social sector in Latvia. This is the logic of an elementary market - the smaller the supply, the higher the demand and the higher the prices. Reducing the number of small businesses in themselves provokes inflation. It should be noted that even before the crisis of the coronavirus, Latvia could not be proud of its special development in this small business area. I will allow you to quote another passage from the Ministry of Finance's document, which will be seen tomorrow in the government sitting. The quote: “The share of innovative small and medium-sized enterprises in Latvia is one of the lowest in the EU – 30.3 per cent, compared to an average of 49.1 per cent in the EU. The main reasons for the business to refrain from resorting to a bank or to defer financing in the company are still insufficient cash flow, insufficient collateral, insufficient equity, insufficient profitability and lack of guarantees from the owners.’ End of quote. All this shows that the business that employs - without exaggerating! - large masses of people, no support from large companies found in Latvia. They are simply not interested in small businesses, but we, as politicians elected by these ordinary people's voices, can change the general order of things in our country. I therefore ask you to vote in favour of the proposal by Member Regina Ločmele on tax incentives for small businesses. It is high time to save working families.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U211	Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U212	Colleagues, as Mrs Locmele said, it really is... this decision has been made at the time of the previous government - at a time when the economy went up, developed when the average wage in the country grew very rapidly, when electricity prices were relatively predictable, when the prices of many services were relatively predictable, inflation was proportionate, but what we are seeing now is a completely different situation. There's really this situation right now, that many people can't pay, many small traders... whether they are not able to trade, their service, their own production, possibly in any other way than those established in the markets... isn't it street trade... or these pandemic control conditions... People are really fighting for their survival. Therefore, in fact, increasing this chapter from 40 thousand to 50 thousand is only logical at this time. And indeed: with a sensible, new tax reform, one that stimulates and motivates it to make some contributions to our public budget... need to be conceptually re-considered, but at this point in time, also taking into account our small entrepreneurs, who already have a new social contribution and a variety of other additional payments, including energy costs, are now in a very difficult situation and are in a situation... I therefore also call on you to join and support this particular proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U213	The name's Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U214	I would also call for support for this proposal, above all because it is a proposal of a systemic nature. This is very important. As for the fact that we are going into an economic crisis or that we are there now, it seems that its negotiations are seem, because, in principle, we are already experiencing a very serious economic crisis affecting whole sectors, because it cannot be said that the economy is flowering and flourishing, but let us say that certain sectors are falling, that is already a sign of the crisis. The second consideration is why it is important: because it is aid not for companies using Latvian territory as one of the export territories, but for local enterprises. For companies that have this instrument to help survive in difficult economic times, all the restrictions imposed by the pandemic, too, are taken into account. I therefore think that, from these considerations, it would also be a good step towards taking the first step in reforming tax policy, looking at how it will work in the near future. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U215	The name of Member Regina Lochmele for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U216	I would just like to add a few figures to the justification for my proposal so that Members can be clear on what they are talking about. Thus, the law now sets a threshold for the compulsory registration of the VAT payer to reach the annual ceiling of 50,000 revenue. What does it mean to have 50,000 revenue a year? This means that this company accounts for EUR 3333 per month on average. Again. You understand what that is about. In principle, it is the salary of one member of the Saeima in one month gross. My offer makes this threshold... forgiveness, it was a threshold of EUR 40,000 per year. My proposal is to increase this threshold by 10 000 euros. And that means that we will allow those entrepreneurs, those businesses that have an average monthly turnover of not more than EUR 4166 not to register for VAT for the time being. Let me explain. The revenue of EUR 4166 per month is still less than the government minister's gross wage. Please support my proposal, thus supporting our micro-enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U217	Name to Member Edgar Tavar for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U218	Thank you. In short, I also draw attention to the current coalition parties which, starting at 13. The Saeima, among other things, has very often referred to the proposal in question, the particular situation, that the amount of this total amount from which the value added tax is to be registered is not fair, that it is to be corrected and that it is very bad... has been a bad thing from the previous government. Colleagues, at this moment, there is really a moment when it is possible to correct this mistake if you still believe that the words that had been given before the last parliamentary elections are still valid. Therefore, please, colleagues, support the specific proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U219	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mrs. Steel, what will you comment on?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U220	The budget and financial (tax) commission did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U221	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - Member Lochmele's proposal! Please, let's vote! - 29, 50, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U222	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. The procedure for entry into force shall be specified. It is partly supported by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and included in proposal 16.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U223	Members have requested a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 15. - Finance Minister Reira's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 8, for - 38, for - 20. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U224	16. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission specifying the arrangements for entry into force. The budget and financial (tax) commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U225	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U226	17. - a proposal from Members Girgen, Papule, Dombrovsky and Pucken. Again for the entry into force procedure, but for the catering. The proposal was rejected by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U227	The proposal is debated but not put to the vote. Members did not want to debate or vote. Let's go.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U228	18. - a proposal from Members Girgen, Papule, Dombrovsky and Pucken. Again for the entry into force procedure, but for the beauty industry. The budget and financial (tax) commission was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U229	The same situation is to be debated, but it is not to be put to the vote. And debate... nor have the Members of the vote requested. Let's go.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U230	19. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. Entry into force for catering. The budget and financial (tax) commission is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U231	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U232	Colleagues, thus all 19 proposals have been examined. I call for support to be given to the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U233	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax" at second, final, final reading! Please, let's vote! For - 71, for - 5, for - 1. The law is passed. On the agenda the draft law “Amendment to Film Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U234	Hello, honourable chairman and colleagues of the Saeima sitting! We see the draft law “Amendment to Film Law” in the annual framework of the state budget and related draft laws. The draft law provides for the attraction of the foreign film industry and related industries. Two proposals were received for the second reading. 1. is the proposal of the Legal Bureau, which provides for the expression of the third paragraph of Section 11 in the following wording: “The Cabinet of Ministers shall determine the procedure for granting co-financing of the state budget for the admission of foreign films in Latvia, and the criteria for granting co-financing of the state budget, including the criteria for determining the eligible costs for film-making in Latvia.” The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U235	Members have not applied for a vote in the debate, but have requested a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The legal office's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 77, for - 1, for - 1, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U236	2. is the proposal of the Member, Mr Lubova Svekov. The proposal provides for the addition of Article 11, with a new fourth paragraph, as follows: "To ask the Ministry of Economics to channel an additional €1.3 million per year from national external image studies to the allocation of additional funding for co-financing of foreign film admissions between 2022 and 2024." The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U237	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U238	Thank you, my colleague. The film industry has been significantly affected by the restrictions imposed by the Covid-19 for stopping the spread of infection. The activities of the industry are limited and the sector faces significant operational burdens, both due to restrictions on international movement and in complying with epidemiological requirements. Therefore, the funding of the state budget, co-financing of foreign film productions in Latvia is very important support for the operation of the industry companies. It should also be noted that by 31 January 2021 Latvia received 13 projects for a total funding of EUR 12 914 436. And the total budget for the projects is 41 million, of which the co-financing of the budget is EUR 2 582 887 with an aid intensity of 20 percent. It should be noted that the orientation of the existing draft law in the budget package is related to the transfer of competence from the Ministry of Culture to the Investment and Development Agency of Latvia. And it also re-allocates the respective division of competences between ministerial departments. The Ministry of Economy will now be responsible for this sector. And, of course, following closely the Ministry of Economics spending and also the Ministry of Economics for the Latvian Investment and Development Agency, we have observed... and noticed that over the course of three years more than three million national image studies are planned to be spent together. Moreover, it should be noted that these researches of the image have already developed such an unpleasant smell, and let us call it sensitive. It is related to the fact that the competition for the examination of the state's external image has already been terminated and has been terminated by the Procurement Monitoring Office, finding that the restrictions on competition and the imposition of an unjustified claim have been violated. This leads to the conclusion that procurement is likely to have been prepared for only one previously known researcher or research agency and looks like possible corrupt transactions and perhaps even political corruption. Therefore, my proposal provides specifically, of course, for the transfer of funds, which were intended for research into the national image, for the admission of foreign films, and for co-financing in this case. What does that mean? This means that funds are used more purposefully, corrupt procurement is not allowed, national recognition is ensured at international level, several effects are achieved... what could be the multiplier effect of investing in film-making activities. In particular, people will have higher, more stable income, the country will be recognised as a place where quality, interesting and... multiple films. And therefore, the image of the state will certainly be strengthened accordingly in this case with a positive... plus sign, not with negative, probably as sometimes occurs. And in order to ensure that budgetary resources, public funds are invested in economic activities and not in research, therefore, it is also proposed to ensure the transfer of funds to host films in Latvia. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U239	Name to Member Ritvar Janson. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U240	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, This question of the adequacy of funds to co-finance the admission of these foreign films has already been discussed in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The representatives of the Latvian National Film Centre indicated that the second part of Section 11 of the Law already allows the Latvian Investment and Development Agency to request additional funding in the appropriations round, because this second part clearly states that the Latvian Investment and Development Agency has the right to conclude a civil agreement with the film producer on the fulfilment of the conditions for the state co-financing, if the increase in tax revenue is predicted in the state budget due to the admission of foreign films in Latvia. As there is scope for additional funding for this national co-financing.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U241	The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U242	Yes, there is an important nuance here, reflecting on what Mr Janson has said. There is a possibility, but there is no obligation. And the possibility is only on condition that the equipment is viewed. And accordingly, as we know, appropriations are only to be redeployed when there are really funds and surpluses and they could be diverted for other purposes. But my proposal, namely... specifically offers funds that are already planned to be invested in research into the image of the State, which is intended to... actually in order, because it turns out that LIAA will now develop the strategy itself, but the study will be purchased. And the action plan will also be purchased for the creation of the national image, but the basic requirements of any elementary logic and management clearly define that from the outset there must be a study, then there must be a strategy and then a plan of action. How is it possible that the strategy will be developed by the LIAA, while the action plan and image will be externalised? This is a completely early stage and clearly points to a possible corruption in this regard. That is why I am also asking for my proposal to be supported, with specific funds being invested in the sector under development. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U243	I closed the debate. Will you comment on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U244	I can only remind you that the Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U245	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal tabled by Member Svekova! Please, let's vote! 25, 50, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U246	Both proposals received have been examined. And the commission supported further progress towards the Saeima sitting, so I invite you to support the bill as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U247	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law "Amendment to Film Law" at second, final, final reading! Please, let's vote! For - 74, for - no, for - 1. The law is passed. On the agenda draft law on social services and social assistance, second reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Cielēns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U248	Hello, honourable leader of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has prepared for the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance” of the Saeima. The aim of the draft law is to ensure competitive remuneration for carers of long-term social care and social rehabilitation institutions. No proposals have been received for the second reading, and on behalf of the Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U249	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final reading of the draft law on social services and social assistance! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Dear colleagues, It's time for a break. Interruption - 15 minutes, we return to work at 16:15. Registration of the presence of Members has taken place. Interruption until 16.15 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U250	Dear Members, Honourable Members! On 15 November 2021, we resumed the examination of the agenda of the second remote extraordinary session of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia after a break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Rihards Kozlovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U251	Dear President, Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” for the second reading. A total of 54 proposals have been received. And 1. is the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers. This is a proposal of a editorial nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U252	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U253	2. is a proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which provides for an exception to the possibility for staff members of the Support Secretariat of the European Regulators for Electronic Communications to receive the salaries set by the European regulator. The Commission was heard by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, who informed that this proposal had no budgetary implications. In particular, this remuneration is paid from the financial resources of the European regulator. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U254	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U255	3. is a proposal from the Legal Office. This is also a proposal of editorial nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U256	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U257	4. is the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers. It is based on the opinion of the Legal Office that in order to determine precisely that the market rate is being... that the market rate is applicable to determine the monthly salary rather than the special premium. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U258	Members have requested a vote on 4. - The Cabinet's proposal. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - A proposal from the Cabinet! Please vote mode! For - 57, for - 6, for - 2. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U259	5. there is a proposal from Members Švekova and Stepanenko. The essence of the proposal is that a review of remuneration, an increase, is recommended in line with comparable international ratings and economic growth rates. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U260	We launched a debate on proposal 5. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U261	Colleagues! We are very generously planning to raise the remuneration of those working in the public administration, but we need to understand: to increase and add something - according at least to the elementary business logic - it must initially be earned. We see that the Covid-19 crisis has highlighted very serious and significant problems in the work of the systemic public administration, namely the absence of horizontal cooperation between different departments, political competition and irresponsibility of people. All this has also extended and deepened the gap between the public and, as a result, the public administration. To say that now, given the bright examples that society does not trust politicians, when society does not trust state authority, I think there is no basis or... neither moral nor legal basis... If we analyse any of the economic indicators in Latvia, especially if we look at indicators that show an increase in welfare (this is measured not formally, based on GDP growth, but measured GDP growth per capita), then we will see that Latvia is very, very far behind many developed countries and developing countries... and we are lagging behind, at European Union level, both Estonia, Lithuania and many other colleagues who are members of the European Union. Latvia's position on this list in terms of GDP per capita is third from the bottom. There is only Bulgaria behind us and, if I am not wrong, Slovenia. Are we, in fact, grateful to our public administration for this? Our politicians? Prime Minister, ministers? I mean, definitely, yes! We see that the level of household well-being has not increased since 2017, but has decreased and the number of households living in poverty has increased. Holdings that lack the resources to meet the necessary primary needs are also located on the critical border... close to 30 percent of the population. All this is the merits of these governments, of these politicians. I believe that as long as Latvia's international competitiveness is maintained, Latvia's competitiveness is accordingly... and the level of prosperity for every citizen has not increased and has not changed to the right side, to talk about a salary supplement for any of those working in the public administration - ministers, President, Members of the Saeima - is not justified and is too hasty. We are refusing people to reduce value added tax for what is absolutely necessary - food... products, electricity, gas - but we take and decide that we will now raise the pay for the public administration. And besides, on what basis? On the basis of the fact that the government borrows, that public debt is increasing and that our children will have to pay back their debt? It happens that the existing Saeima generously shares the money by buying the machines of public administration for the next elections. And thanks for this beautiful supplement, the officials will come and vote for those politicians who have provided them with this. Please, people, be reasonable and understand why the remuneration of local governments and public administration workers is being increased, and remember that about 200,000 people are working in this segment. It is also the New Unity, “Development/About!” ... and other political determinations on the political elite's current parties... So, seeing what priorities are and that its priorities are not for the well-being of society, but its priorities are for the well-being of officials, then also draw the relevant conclusions and your choice next year. That is why I am asking you to support my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U262	The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U263	Dear colleagues, The Prime Minister describes the state budget as a balanced and completely developed budget. However, it is difficult to understand where it is the head of government and ministers who see a balance between a planned substantial wage supplement for themselves and an increase in income for medical, teacher and social care workers. The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” provides for a significant increase of remuneration in the state administration. For example, the salary of the President of Latvia will increase from the current 5960 euros to 7600 euros per month. The same salary as the President will be paid by the Speaker of the Saeima and the Prime Minister, for whom this will mean an increase of salaries from 5000 to 7600 euros per month. The increase is also planned for ministers, whose salary will rise from 5000 euros to 6700 euros. Parliamentary secretaries are expected to grow from EUR 3900 to less than EUR 6000 per month. I do not think that it is the right time to increase the remuneration of Members of the Saeima. All these wage increases, from the President to the Ministry and Local Government officials, relate to the 2023 budget, which seems to be irrelevant for next year. But that's what it's about! Now you have to send out a clear message to your own - you will be all right, whatever happens in the country, the need for solidarity does not apply, you will get your money, even though it will be a busy money, only next October 1st, remember about us - the good! There is therefore an absolutely understandable concern for the coalition - a richly gifted main pillar - a civil service at all levels. It seems that it is this group of supporters that is more necessary than doctors, teachers, social workers and pensioners. Under circumstances where people are so disappointed that they do not go to elections, officials will be disciplined and will vote on their own, on power parties. Under low-activity conditions, it will be crucial for the existing coalition to maintain its power. Proposal 5 states that the increase in the remuneration of officials should only be allowed on the basis of Latvia's assessment of economic growth and the reduction in the number of people at risk of poverty according to improvements in purchasing power parity standards. I agree with this approach. I think that such an approach would need to be linked to the overall reform of public administration, creating fewer officials and reviewing the functions of the bureaucratic apparatus. I therefore call for support for proposal 5. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U264	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U265	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, I will also call for support for this proposal for a number of reasons. First of all, if we read this bill, we can see that the rise in wages, including in this law... It is difficult to understand why, for some, this increase in wages amounts to five to ten per cent, for others, such as the Prime Minister, the increase in wages is planned to be 42 per cent against what is now. And the same applies to the President of State and a number of other officials, including us in the Saeima, this annex is very important, and it is absolutely incomparable to the supplement that, for example, is received this year by medical staff (I would remind you once again, colleagues, - 4.4 per cent). And here our colleagues offer some mechanism... In some way, introduce some criteria in the law, according to which we determine whether there are any grounds for amending the levels of pay. The proposal for purchasing power parity is taken into account here. Of course, if this discussion were normal, as would be the case with this law on... a single remuneration law. It is very disrespectful of the law itself, of all these entities, that we are looking at this bill at all in the context of the budget. This draft law would be appropriate... it should be considered in three readings, where such proposals could also be analysed by nature and these Purchasing Power Parity indicators should be viewed not only in general but also in regional terms, and even draw the attention of fellow Members to the fact that these Purchasing Power Parity Indicators outside the Riga region differ twice three times from the income level of a person in Riga... and who is in Kurzeme, Vidzeme or Latgale, no matter... In all of these areas, these income levels are very different and nothing goes to the right side, quite the other way, this cross is growing more and more. And here you have to think about some solutions. But with regard to civil servants' salaries, this proposal provides for some kind of criteria, at least some criteria... State Audit Office... and from this debate, which has been in the Saeima on and around this issue, it has always been that this lack of criteria is not understandable. We also know clearly that this order is quite incomprehensible at this time, when a number of officials already basically understand that they have a salary x and will have a premium y that will be every month, and always will, and that is what they already count as a basic salary. Colleagues, the concern that I have is that this bill, although we are today... it will be examined, and it is a long awaited, it puts either such huge bombs inside, mainly on top of senior officials, but also as regards how sustainable this law will be, I have no conviction. Such criteria, as proposed by Mrs Švelova in her proposal, must, by their very nature, be debated, and they must be discussed with a real responsibility. It's... Perhaps not only these proposals should be included so that this remuneration law is clearer and better explained to people... Colleagues, how can you explain today the 42 per cent wage supplement to the Prime Minister or to at least one minister? How can we explain this today? With what criteria? What strategic goals have these people (even on paper) achieved, what exactly have they done to have such an increase in wages today? If we agree on the criteria, we could follow - economic growth, the change in purchasing power currently being offered, the reduction in inequality... we could look at something - the fulfilment of the government declaration, whatever, but we could follow them by setting normal criteria. There are no criteria at present. We've told you when we look at the sky that the Prime Minister will get 42 per cent. Well, I think that's not right. I call for support for this proposal: it is at least somehow trying to put things in order so that everything is systemically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U266	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U267	I would like to continue on the subject of the popular hatred bombs which have been hidden in this 2022 budget. Indeed, this budget has hidden secrets that also apply to the remuneration of senior officials. What has just been said by the opposition concerns only the net salary, but when we leave this budget, we will in future also receive a 20 per cent contribution to representation expenses for every official. So there will be a salary plus 20 percent of this salary as a bonus. Initially, this bonus was intended separately, namely in the form of the compensation of representation expenses, which is the non-taxable amount of personal income tax, to which the Legal Bureau indicated in the preparation of this budget package for the second reading that it is not good, because to hide something, bypassing taxes with such a system is not quite fair if we are talking about the fact that no other person working in the budgetary institution has the possibility of not having the same number of senior officials as ours. What has the government done? Well, first of all, when preparing this legislative package for final reading... The opposition and I personally made proposals to exclude representation expenses from the remuneration of senior officials. The Cabinet was very cunning. They allegedly supported this proposal, but in essence officials - thus President, Prime Minister, all ministers and even the Chief Justice of the Constitutional Court and the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court - will receive compensation for the expenses of its representation, only as part of the salary, which, for the sake of truth, will be subject to personal income tax. But does that change the substance of the matter? Does it change the fact that the State Audit Office has pointed out that primarily representation expenses are not required from senior officials? Neither the President, the Prime Minister, nor the Ministers are making invoices for what they have purchased for themselves so that it can be added to the representation expenses. I don't know, a new costume, a dress, a hairdresser, a manicure, a cosmetologist or what? For example, if you were to work in business, the State Revenue Service would tell you clearly and lightly that, here, there is a correspondence that can be added to representation expenses and not. In this case, 20 per cent of the wage premium does not require the preparation of any accounts, let alone that all of you know perfectly that absolutely all expenses, perhaps excluding really clothes, are reimbursed from the budget, including cars, security, drivers of these cars, lunches, travel money, air transport and other transport tickets, and so on. Once again, wages will not only increase by the amount already named by my colleagues... Let us not forget that this hidden part of the budget is this 20 per cent premium. And I really want the media and voters not to forget about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U268	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U269	Dear colleagues! This draft law is one of those draft laws which, in my opinion, have not been directed too long by the government. I understand that it was a long time for the deep drawers of the State Chancellery. And to guide it in the Saeima, of course, you need some courage that... Because, of course, not everyone will study or have read this bill, for example, on the question that the bill only applies to elected officials from 1 January 2023. That means from next... even after the parliamentary term of the next Saeima has arrived. Knowing all this, voters also have the full right to go to the elections, knowing that the officials they will elect - Members and the resulting new Prime Minister - will then claim this kind of remuneration. So the point is that it does not apply to the officials currently elected, which I think is only logical, because, as you know, the Saeima Members have already frozen their own wages before the end of this term, so there is a certain degree of continuity in this regulation. In general, as far as I have observed and heard various reports from both the Commission on Public Expenditure and Audit and, in general, in the face of the results of various competitions in the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, I have considered that there are objective problems in the public administration to find competent officials or to fill the necessary posts with their salary level, with those ranges of salary groups that are currently in force. That's why I think... I, of course, come from the private sector... It is only logical, for example, that the existing funding gives the employer a right to choose, as is the case in the private sector, also in the public sector, then to each employer or head of the institution, or to whom, then... which are the employees who are the specialists with specific skills who need some adequate remuneration. And then give them their discretion and also define their ranges sufficiently wide so that this discretion is included in this law as well. At the moment, I see quite a big problem, even in a bright context, with the fact that there is... there is also an objective minimum wage and so on. And so the ranges that seem to be in those lower-paid wage groups in the public administration become so compressed that there is, in fact, no difference between those wage groups, function groups and so on. And the second problem is that there have been those bonuses in all job groups, which are quite opaque, how to pay the salary. We also had a report from the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit on this issue, where it was actually also possible to find that officials in high-ranking positions practically receive a second salary in this way. And it can only be seen from the declarations of officials, but formally from the amount of remuneration... Whereas, since he is invited to his work by tender, this cannot be indicated, so that it can be said in silence... It's all... is not a good way of shaping this remuneration policy in public administration. It must be open, transparent. I am more than saying that there should be a smaller number of officials in public administration. In general, public administration is smaller, but needs to be adequately remunerated and competent. That is what I would call on everyone to do so, as well as how to address and support. I understand, of course, that the opposition has a very great desire to take advantage of this situation at the moment - not to mention at all, for example, that elected officials are not concerned, that the parliamentary term is not concerned and that the Prime Minister is not concerned. But I understand that, I think it is a policy, but I call for the possibility not to manipulate the facts and deceive society as far as possible. Members' salaries are frozen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U270	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U271	Dear President, Dear colleagues, One is in general, if we look at proposal 5 and everything about systematicness on principle and standard, by which the remuneration of the employees of the officials concerned should be calculated, then one question would be really for a coalition, which was not mentioned, among other things, as the spokesperson of the coalition, Mr Feldman: where is there really this responsible policy and the scientifically-based fact that it is precisely at this time that this quality will be improved by increasing the remuneration of the officials responsible? And even with the next Saeima, not this Saeima, not this Prime Minister and Ministers, this is not the case, but where is the reason? Especially at a time, colleagues - at a time when very many sectors are fighting for their survival, we are now deciding on the members of the government and officials responsible for the next parliamentary term... Not just a whole, big list... significant wage increases... Prime Minister, Parliamentary Secretary, Saeima Members... an enormous increase in interest. This scientific basis right now... If we are talking about reducing VAT, then we are not clearly discussing it, so that those people are fighting, as they can, for a number of sectors - for micro-enterprises that pay their... fighting for your survival in the beauty industry... people in many areas, cultural workers who are still having problems. And, as I said, these representatives of the restaurants who have called the State Revenue Service today and have asked them how to ensure that employees can receive the salary for October, and on 22 November only they can apply, and the SRS officially says - then pay them for cash and give you back when you have transferred them... Well, and here we decide now in very beautiful speeches that the quality of work in the country and the quality of decisions will certainly grow in the coming years, right at a time of crisis. It is positive, of course, that it does not decide on itself yet in this case, just as it did with public funding, when it granted itself, in fact, with a retroactive date, which was very incorrect. This, at this moment, at a given time, if we look at it, is not correct to decide at the very time of the crisis on such an increase in wages (even one year later, even if it is in the next term). It is simply not correct, my fellow Members, at this point in time to look at such issues at all. What are we sending signals? You're also constantly mentioning this borrowed money... how we budget many things to raise sectors and help many areas... then you can actually put such a pronounced tar spoon in the whole process. Therefore, colleagues, I certainly have a general view of the wage supplement - no, but if we are talking specifically about proposal 5, there is at least some system here, at least some kind of report proposed, to which we should stick... and build upon. I therefore call for support for proposal 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U272	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U273	Thank you. Two comments. Note 1: Indeed, to be honest, this type of thing had to be dealt with in three readings - the way it should be - because it affects not only remuneration but the efficiency of public administration. What Mr. Feldman said... Yes, I think that all Members have read that, let us say, for public officials, this increase in wages is only from 2023, but it is even more crazy, to be honest, because these amendments to the remuneration law are, by their very nature, a will of the existing government and no one can say today whether or not the conditions of the will will be realistic. What will happen at the end of 2022? Where we will be at all, not only economically, but also in view of all their complex and unpredictable situation with the development of a pandemic (as it develops unfortunately quite consistently and rapidly), where we will be at the end of 2022, and which we will leave with this type of amendment to the next parliament, to the next government and, above all, to the next generation of our society, it is very difficult to predict this today. So it is cynical today, when we do not know what will be by the end of the year, to plan things of this kind, not to mention increasing efficiency, not to mention that we really have a public administration too heavy and where we should talk about quality, we are talking about numbers. It is already obvious today that, in the difficult times when, let us say, the number of officials is increasing where fewer people can be done, we are creating new structures, new units, vaccination offices and so on, and so on. Therefore, I think it is in support of this proposal, which is trying to introduce some kind of systematic approach in matters of remuneration (very serious things!) ... I think that this draft law must be rejected both in theory and in practice. However, on this proposal, I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U274	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U275	Dear colleagues, There is now a health crisis in Latvia, on the border with Belarus, but it would be difficult for me to imagine what should happen, so that I say today that we have a crisis in the civil service, a major crisis in the civil service, that we now have a systematic, systematic draft law. Mr Feldman rightly said that this is a very large reform in substance, which has been put in the context of the budget. I took part in the meetings of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) - there was a great deal here - this one also fell out of this budget, from this draft law simply because it was not completely debated. These are very serious issues and it is important to me that this is sustainable. But if we say today the political priorities that must be achieved in this budget, then I return once again - the health area was the area that should have been a priority over the area of officials. At the moment, we are throwing civil servants in, we are putting the highest officials of the country together with all the issues of the crisis. And they can be very well compared, and this comparison does not hold any criticism. So 4.4 percent for the medical staff, 42 percent for the Prime Minister. It's okay, in a year. Well, tell the doctors that they will have a 20-30 percent increase in a year's time, now maybe not, in a year's time. That is not what we can do. We could all vote together that there would be 20, then changed to 10, and in the end even 10 can't give and give 4.4. This is very symbolic that in these really important places, we put a variety of bombs - bombs with a certain time burner.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U276	Mr Valaiņš, both times of debate have come to an end. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U277	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Dear colleagues, And especially all those who listen to us! It has been said here that proposals of this kind to significantly increase wages for senior officials and high-level officials and, of course, also for ministers, Members, the government is to be supported, because this does not apply to the current government, to the current Members, but only to the next, the 14th, Saeima and the government that 14. The family will be formed. Here's why it might be possible to believe this if, for example, what Mr Feldman said there... say, here I am not planning to stand for 14. The Saeima may not make sense, or perhaps it makes no sense, and so I am, to say that I am selflessly proposing to ensure better living conditions for those future Members who will continue to carry their flag, and so are all the other members of the coalition that, all we have, so to speak, have realised that it is better... that further in politics we do not have to do better to take over by other people. But instead, colleagues from the ruling coalition - instead, you decide to increase party funding immediately - how many were there? - Seven times apparently with the goal of getting into the next Saeima at any price. Because you're still in these four years, 13. During the Saeima, you have borrowed almost seven billion euros? Over four years, more than Estonia has borrowed over 30 years. Isn't it to buy voters with money if you can't. So, sorry, but this argument that, behold, this increase in wages is not for us, but for some other people - this argument does not pass absolutely any criticism. I think there is no doubt here that it is meant to be directly, so to say, to your lovers, because, of course, you have the hope of getting into the next Saeima and enjoying the consequences of your decisions today, but the facts, dear colleagues, are that on the next year's budget you are offering to raise the medical fees for more than four percent, while for yourself, Members, you offer to raise the salaries for 10 percent, for the ministers - how much? - about one third, public officials, 40 percent. So, colleagues, being facts about where you see yourself, where you see Latvian doctors and the Latvian population as a whole and what you think is at the heart of the universe. And they are not Latvians. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U278	The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U279	Yes, I would like to say that I am aware, and I am also aware, of this proposal that the salary supplement is indeed forecast for individual posts only from 2023, but the entire increase in the remuneration of the public administration and its justification must be assessed and assessed in general. And its validity must also be linked to the digitisation of the public administration and the related reduction in the number of employees in the public administration. Unfortunately, when we look at the presentations presented by the Ministry's Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, explaining what positions of officials are further reduced or, on the contrary, created, it can be seen that the ministries do not plan a consistent, serious work on the efficiency of the state administration apparatus. Of the 20 small public administrations, only two institutions were removed this year, but its liquidation took place simply by joining existing public administrations, both with headquarters and with funding. In practice, therefore, the number of small and very small public administrations has not decreased. It remained the same, just changing location. Another important thing to talk about in this context is that according to the OECD, the number of employees employed in the Latvian public administration is higher than the average in OECD countries and is approaching 20 percent of the total employment in the country. And it must be understood that this wage reform is a hidden bribery...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U280	Mrs Svelova, both times of debate on the proposal are gone. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U281	Thank you, President of the House and colleagues. Now I'm always surprised by you as a coalition or perhaps by the government's only delegated position in man's speech, which, a bit of a bit, still shines and looks like narcissism, but I'll read the facts to you. In essence, if we talk about the increase in the remuneration of officials, then in fact what has been hidden in the budget even in the current situation by the coalition and also by the economies, so to speak, the supervisor, there are some examples: the increase in the remuneration of the Society Integration Fund, 10 new posts at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the maritime initiative, five new posts at the Competition Council... Somewhere else there are hidden positions. What are you talking about at this time when you cannot even reduce the value added tax on the relevant food that is normally needed in a person's daily lives? You hide both the increase in the remuneration of officials, which is probably necessary, but not just when looking at the crisis in health, at the crisis at the border and also at a crisis that is approaching education to some extent... You are creating new posts, not just for the institutions that are dealing with the health crisis, the crisis in the context of the Belarus border, or the crisis in education. You are creating new posts to some extent for entertainment in those ministries that have little to do with what is needed now. Represent and defend your proposals in essence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U282	The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U283	Colleagues! According to Mārtiņš Bondars, the increase in salary is never the right moment. Then at the moment I could say that this moment is definitely the most real time... is not the moment in which you should increase your wages. And we need to understand what its priorities are both this year and then in 2023. And certain of these priorities will be in the area of health, and it could also be mentioned as an area of the home affairs system. In the area of the home affairs system, there is one of the poorest ministries (also compared to the Baltic States), where the funding is completely insufficient for both fire-fighters and police officers. And that's why we need to understand what its priorities are, because at the moment (which I have also placed emphasis on at the Saeima's Public Expenditure and Audit Commission)... Now, the officials... they receive very high wages, even double. And I can safely mention the same Head of the State Chancellery, Citskovskis, who has to receive EUR 2441 after his post, but in reality he receives EUR 5248 every month. By increasing salaries, you will increase yet these all bonuses. Likewise, the Coordination Centre of the Transparency Centre - the manager of the Centre should receive 2441. With this report, they get into society - we get low wages that are not competitive... but in reality he receives EUR 4803. The same is true in the Prime Minister's office. The Prime Minister's head also has to receive EUR 2441, but in reality he receives 5180 - more than the Prime Minister can say. Then we are also talking about the President's Chancellery - there are also people who receive additional funding. I believe that this is certainly not the moment for us to raise wages both for ministers, for the President and for the rest of the office. Legislation must be put in place and, yes, I recognise that appropriate remuneration must be obtained for the work that has been done. Now we are increasing cleanly, but what will change - will we start to do twice as much work? Will there be any responsibility? I don't think so. I therefore call on these questions... what we have now presented, supported and prevented as an opposition that civil servants receive more pay than the people who would need it most at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U284	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U285	Good evening, everybody! There is no need for even one minute to show the irresponsibility, permissiveness, and selfishness of this power. You claim that... The only argument you have been able to make in this debate is that this substantial increase in the remuneration of public officials is necessary because it is not possible to attract a skilled workforce for these posts. And it is a responsible step. So you're gonna tell me what the medicine is like? And why don't you make the same decision there? So you're irresponsible. You have testified this for yourself. I'm all right.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U286	The debate is closed. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Kozlovsky, do you want to add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U287	Only that, yes, in the Commission, this proposal did not receive any support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U288	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - the proposal put forward by the Members of Lubova Svekova and Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! - 31, 52, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U289	6. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau to replace the words “on the website of the State Chancellery” in Article 5 of the draft law with the words “approved by the Cabinet of Ministers”. In the Commission... After hearing the Legal Bureau's clarification that this is a regulatory framework that should therefore be set out in an external legislative act, the Commission decided to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U290	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U291	7. - a proposal from Members Pucenas, Papules, Girgens and Dombrovskis. In fact, the law excludes an article which provides for an increase in the monthly salary of the President of Latvia, leaving it to the extent available. This proposal was rejected by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U292	We launched a debate on the proposal. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U293	Colleagues! As I said before, I do not support an increase in this official's salary as a whole. And we should look more at how to cut. Similarly, the State Audit Office had to come with information and with all these institutions, which could be reorganised or eliminated. Unfortunately, none of this has really been done in these years. And in this respect, of course, I would also call for not to support the increase in wages for the President of the State, and also for an assessment to be made as to whether these new units of office, requested by the President's Registry, would be necessary. And, of course, colleagues, we will certainly also vote in favour of this Flemish during this budget, which has still not been withdrawn by the Presidential Chancellery. Similarly, the Presidential Chancellery did not do what it did in 2020 by rushing away from this increase in wages for the President. It would have been only worthy of the President to give up this increase in this budget, in 2022, too, because there are no objective reasons why more remuneration would have been needed at the moment, because Mr Levit, unfortunately, has not confirmed our hope, has not become a president of the people, so that we could increase his remuneration with ambiguities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U294	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U295	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Now in Latvia we... Even if we accept the idea of the State Chancellery for the time being that state high-level officials urgently need an increase in salary, because here, the private sector pays more and it is difficult to hold high-level employees and so on... Even if we accept it, let us ask ourselves: can all of this that I have just mentioned be extended to senior officials? I am referring to the Prime Minister, the President of the State and the Speaker of the Saeima. Do we really have a situation then, that here's the President of Latvia or the Prime Minister, so to say... the state can keep them as they threaten to go from public administration to the private sector, where they are offered higher, more competitive salaries? Let us ask ourselves, colleagues, do we really have a situation today where we offer uncompetitive remuneration to the President of Latvia, Prime Minister, the Speaker of the Saeima, which makes us lose them tomorrow or come to the private sector, where we are prepared to pay more for them. Is that so? On the remuneration of the President of Latvia, colleagues, must specifically give... specifically ask a question. In normal circumstances, it would not be polite to ask such a question, and I am not pleased to ask such questions about the senior officials of the country, but unfortunately, this situation for time and its demand, this proposal for an increase in wages and also for what budgetary requests (this famous grand piano is often mentioned here)... What budgetary requests from the Presidential Chancellery we see... That is the question, colleagues. In our neighbouring Estonia, which, despite a smaller population... Estonia’s public budget, as we know, is higher in part of expenditure, including revenue. In the expenditure part, more than one billion euros. Thus, with a larger state budget for the maintenance of the President in Estonia, Estonian taxpayers pay €4,7 million per year. In turn, in the draft budget for next year, Latvian taxpayers are offered to pay for the maintenance of the President of Latvia (of course not personally for the maintenance of the President of Latvia, but for the maintenance of the President's Chancellery) EUR 6.7 million. So maintenance of the President's Chancellery costs Latvian taxpayers for two million euros a year more than maintenance of the President of Estonia for Estonian taxpayers. Unfortunately, colleagues, I must also remind you that this situation in Latvia has changed very significantly in recent years because, for example, in 2020... In 2019 the maintenance of the State Chancellery cost us about as much as the Estonians, but somehow in these few years, to be precise, two years, these maintenance costs have increased very much. Adults even... now we're talking about growth, which is... actually 50 percent... almost 50 percent of what it was in 2019-2020. So in a situation where we are in a health crisis and when our country has borrowed so much money... I believe that first of all, the President's Registry should review very carefully what they do and how much it costs...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U296	Mr. Dombrovskis, it's time... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U297	... pay to Latvian taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U298	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U299	Colleagues! It would not be appropriate to talk about the particular President of the State at the moment, speaking about this draft law, but that question should be touched. Let us look at the history of this experience with wages. We remember - there was for us President of Latvia Berzins, who even gave up his salary as such. Mr Levit, when he came to take office to become President, came from the Court of Justice of the European Union, the judge was, and there the remuneration is significantly higher than what he is currently receiving. I hadn't heard at any time that Mr. Levit had... Perhaps I am wrong, and perhaps someone will tell you that this has been the case, but it has been said that this salary is too low, too low. I have not heard at all that Members or Ministers would say that these salaries are not enough. But if we talk specifically about the President and about the substance of this draft law, so - the law on uniform remuneration and the law on remuneration of officials and employees... Well, it's like... There should be some criteria on the basis of which we choose their remuneration; there should be some set of criteria. So far it has been somehow attached to, I don't know, minimum wages... or to another, but some attempt has been made, and then all the time it was shown how many croplas its system is -- see how it hasn't got, it doesn't have to... or to make these premiums, which Mr. Girgen has already spoken about. And a couple... very many of these things are there, but at a time when we are not trying to solve, we are not trying to make some systemic offer, but we are simply changing the factor, as in this case we are just up to 7; it is just a change of factor; it's just as simple as it's written on a sheet: the salary will still be 6,000, 7,000, 8,000, 10 000... What difference? These figures are not justified, it is a figure taken from the air, it is inserted into this law without any justification, any kind of analysis. Such analysis should normally be and should be justified. However, neither in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission nor in this budget process at all, such arguments, nor any justifications have I heard. I did not hear why this factor needs to be changed as substantially as it is currently being proposed. On this overall background... the situation with doctors, the situation also in other areas, the situation with seniors, with the fact that inequalities increase... The President of Latvia is... very symbolic... the highest official of the State; very symbolicly, we are doing this to the highest official of the State... Annex I.B. At the same time... Let us now look at what is happening in other areas, and let us consider whether it really is the priority that should now, today, be included in this law. The Group of the Greens/Farmers Union from the first moment that this draft law came to the Saeima pointed out two important things: this draft law should be dealt with in three readings, and the question of officials, senior officials, there is currently no place in this draft law - whether it is the Prime Minister, the Member of the Saeima or the President of Latvia. In this case, I think it is a gesture of disrespect that the government, the State Chancellery and, at the moment, the Saeima also show to medical doctors, teachers, seniors, all those groups of the population to whom this will be very difficult due to the winter energy crisis, the increase in health spending due to the crisis, the lack of access to health services due to the crisis. This will be a very difficult winter for all, but in perspective - very generous for the senior officials. That is not right. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U300	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U301	Yeah, thank you. I think Mr Feldman has not thought about the President of Latvia when he said that it is difficult to find competent men and wives from public administration because of a lack of remuneration. The question is very interesting and I will tell you this: I would also support the proposal to raise the salary for the President of Latvia, provided that it is the President of Latvia elected by all nations. In this case, yes; the decision will either be supported or not supported by the people who elect the President. Well, in this case, it looks very funny. The current President has not spoken for or against this type of proposal. I think that if he had the opportunity to take part in the Saeima meeting and to express his opinion on this, perhaps he would have thought about whether the right time really has come, whether our economy is really growing, our budget revenue has risen so fast, that there is no place to put their money, and that really should support this kind of proposal. If so, perhaps we would listen to the President of Latvia's opinion on this position, and I think that would be very important. Indeed, Mr Valaiņš is right - and not only for him, but for many who have spoken about this today - that now, when we cannot ensure decent pay for the medical staff themselves in the most acute crisis, when we cannot provide normal, civilised wages for teachers, teachers, scientists and so on, and so on, and still, we think about an official whose results unfortunately are what they are. I therefore call on the President to support this proposal until he has expressed his opinion on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U302	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U303	Head of sitting! Dear colleagues, I am certainly one of those Members who support this proposal... several arguments after. I have already set out some of them when we were talking about previous proposals, but there is also a fundamentally rhetorical question - by which would the current President of Latvia Egil Levit be better if he received more pay from next year? What will be the reasons for this? If we look... for 2023, not next year, because Mr. Levit works until mid-2023... One of the arguments put forward by the legislators is that if there is a wage supplement, competitiveness will definitely increase and there will be more choice and quality and everything, everything will increase, and we will have the best leaders. Colleagues, does this not seem to be a bit absurd... Is that so? If we are talking specifically about the monthly salary of the President of Latvia, such a coefficient... in general, wage changes can be debated... with a term that does not affect the current President of Latvia... in the case... How I see... and will also see the specific law on remuneration... then it is clear that the current President of Latvia is subject to the high wage supplement. I think... Colleagues, let us not deceive ourselves! If we receive regular greetings to Lachplēsis day on Martin's Day morning, then we don't have to wait for any real wonder that Lachplēsis day morning will welcome us also to Lachplēsis day. I don't think something will change there. And in this case... We should certainly talk about the possible changes in the remuneration of the President of Latvia - even not in such a size, but in any smaller, more reasonable way - at a time when we will be in office a new, reasonable President of the whole of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U304	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U305	Yes, here many colleagues expressed their surprise and misunderstanding as to why the President of Latvia is supposed to have such, so enormous, increase in remuneration, even though he has not been able to do anything good. But if we are objective, it is not true. Some good... For some good he has done a lot as good. And perhaps that's also the main reason why this power clings to him now with the same answer. That is, it is Egil Levit that is to a large extent responsible for this power being subjugated in irresponsibleness and negligence, because it was he who said that - no matter what happens - this government would remain and that Karin would be the only one to lead this country. As a result, we can now, at the moment, simply swim in our irresponsibleness and permissiveness, and it has no responsibility at all. The principles of a democratic state do not work at all. In a democratic country, the only way that power can be called upon to respond is that power can be replaced. Here... If I cannot be replaced, there is a totalitarian regime in place, and it is now being offered to repay. That is how I see this budget at the moment. I will therefore personally support this proposal. Such an act of power that takes place at the expense of the money of the people is not acceptable to the budget! And also in the next budget debate, I will show you a number of interesting positions; the proposal on the President's Flemish is not the only masterpiece of the President's Chancellery. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U306	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U307	Dear colleagues, I would like to emphasise once again that, in my view, this proposal must not be assessed by how much Egil Levit is or is not popular... and more generally - how much Krišjānis Kariņš is or is not popular; it must not evaluate these future proposals either. These proposals must be reasonable in any system. What I draw attention to is that it is not the basis that has been changed, the coefficients that have been raised up have been changed. It breaks down the basic system as it has been so far. And to the promoters of these proposals, I, too, for my part... I also ask: well then justify why... What's happened is that... Why should this factor be “7”, why is it not“8 ”? And what's the reason that's... Why is it not 10? It could have been anyway. Unfortunately, in this debate today no one is really... in essence during the examination of the whole draft law... has not even tried to answer this question - why the President of Latvia 42 percent... It's going to be... a supplement to the salary? This leads to this and the next, and more and more... proposals to exclude these provisions from the draft law. Yes, we see here: there are a whole range of categories in the civil service, which have these salary supplements and for which this reform will work. Where do we see the justification? In this case... From the point of view of the system, there is no real justification. Whether there is John, Peter or Zigurd, no matter who in this post is... Systemically, this is the wrong approach now being proposed for the remuneration of national senior officials, because it simply lacks the justification. They looked in the sky and figured out “7”. Could also have been ‘9’.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U308	Mr Valaiņš, both times of debate have come to an end. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U309	Dear President and colleagues. On the one hand, looking... Well, in such a remote format... On the remuneration of the President of Latvia, it is clear that if the current President is increased, then the salary section or the compensation section is increased accordingly for the former Presidents. And yes, indeed, the former presidents would probably also have to pay more for their merits, because one of them has really done foreign affairs, has done so, perhaps, in the discipline of the Saeima. But if you look at the system, then why do we decide on some officials now? Having assessed what is happening at the moment (the Prime Minister, already together with the government, performs quite a number of functions of the Saeima MEPs), I have the question: has the existing coalition decided that there should be more changes in power vertically, so more functions, more advantages, more tasks for the President of Latvia? I would like to hear the answer "no" - that in this wage supplement (yes, it is one coefficient... number) is not included in the planned... Until the next Saeima... contained... changes in national governance. I really hope that the basic idea is to support the former presidents, not the idea of paying off to someone who is currently performing his duties... including the place of the Saeima. Consequently, I hope that the system of national governance will not be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U310	I closed the debate. Mr Kozlowski, would you like to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U311	On behalf of the Commission, I can only remind you that the proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U312	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - A proposal from Members Pucenas, Papules, Girgens and Dombrovskis! Please vote mode! For - 30, for - 53, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U313	8 / 8 - the proposal by Members Svekova and Stepanenko. The proposed new version of Article 4.3 is foreseen to be excluded. The proposal is, in fact, similar to the previous one, with the exclusion of the regulation on an increase in the remuneration of the President. The Commission did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U314	Dear colleagues, As this proposal is equal to the unsupported proposal 7, this proposal is not to be put to the vote but to the debate and Members have applied for the debate. However, as the time has come for the break, let us start the debate after the break. Only registration of the presence of Members. It's been a success. Let's take a break, 15 minutes. Let's get back to work at 17.45. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U315	Good evening, colleagues! We will continue to see the draft law “Amendment to Social Services and Social... “ Sorry, “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”. We stayed on the 8th proposal, which is not to be voted on, but is to be debated. Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U316	Colleagues! In business, there is one important principle in the business environment – you can spend what you deserve, but in order to earn, you need to go a certain way. There is the question: what has been the way in these years by our President? So, how much money did he provide for those who have entered the country in addition? How much better did the people of Latvia begin living? How have many family children grown up in wealth and well - being? And unfortunately one of the first works and loud statements that the President has made publicly is a statement that another institution of public administration is needed in Latvia - one that will monitor the quality of the Saeima's work. This idea, unfortunately, had to be postponed for the time being, it did not happen to the President, but with this idea of setting up the Institute, everything was said about the priorities that, let us say, the President defines and directs. His next... offer again from the President that... Since the Latvian Government is facing a problem... In the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic and the economic crisis, there was an offer... introducing additional ministerial posts. In other words, there is one very bad tendency to solve problems, not to understand, analyse and identify their causes, but to offer the simplest solution - to increase the number of employees in public administration. Consequently, the whole draft law on the increase in the remuneration of officials and employees of state and municipal institutions is, in fact, one serious brother who is once again out of place and who does not correspond to the current situation, because it does not meet any of the major challenges facing society. Does this draft law provide for a reduction in public administration and efficiency of public administrations? It's not written or written anywhere. Does this draft law provide for the rules to be clearer and simpler to comply with, and for the business environment to be more orderly? No, no. Does the draft law provide for a reduction of the administrative burden by introducing appropriate digital solutions as well? No, no. Is it planned to eliminate at least one institution working in public administration due to implementation of this law, increase of remuneration? No, no. Then the question arises as to why we in the Saeima are now in favour of a sharp increase in remuneration for public administration officials if none of the objectives is met. And even those objectives are not defined in the annotation of this draft law. What will we achieve? What is the result for us? Next Unrealized Industrial... reindustrialisation policy. Current number of administrative processes... Reduction of administrative procedures? Increase in well-being for citizens, large families? It's not said anywhere. So that's why... talk about people working in public administration... and including the President, who wanted to increase the number of employees in public administration... It just doesn't happen! And another important thing. Distribute money to those working in public administration who do not create anything does not create new added value, but to put debt on the shoulders of future generations, which is public debt and is rising - it is simply immoral. Therefore, it is a great pity that this Saeima will enter into history with the fact that the parties increased funding for themselves, increased the remuneration of their loyal officials and also the remuneration of the President of Latvia, without ensuring that society, people start living better, richer and the business environment improves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U317	I closed the debate. There was a possibility of a debate on this proposal, but it was not possible to vote. We are going on with proposal 9. Please, Mr. Kozlovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U318	9. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. In fact, it's identical. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U319	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U320	Colleagues! This proposal from the Group of the Greens/Family Union provides for, like the previous proposals, a waiver of the rise in the President's salary, and at this point we could talk about... perhaps even the withdrawal of this proposal, provided that someone had tried to explain something that has changed in the day-to-day lives of the national senior officials... in this approach; which is exactly what has happened, which must lead to such a substantial increase in his salary - 42 per cent. Unfortunately, nothing was said in this debate. And this proposal is to be welcomed. Unfortunately, this was not the case. However, I would also call on my fellow Members to take a look at the next proposals, in particular, proposal 11, which provides not only for an increase in the salary of 42 per cent for the President, but also for the compensation offered to that senior official of the country. As I have already said, this is a draft law without any justification, which creates these increases in the salaries of senior officials, for whom, unfortunately, in this debate in the Saeima too... and, in a way, thank Mr Feldman, who explained this big picture of the remuneration law for these officials... on what presentations are seen in the Public Expenditure and Audit Commission, but now in the Public Expenditure and Audit Commission it's just a bit... which has been seen in the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government... For five years now, five-six different heads of the State Chancellery have carried and shown such presentations, but there's never been anything in such amounts about these officials... it has not been said that there could be such an increase; all of this has always been a balance, but I think this one has surprised so many, and so far there has been no clear answer as to why it is, why it is not different and on which it is based. If someone said it was based on this Fontes study, there's no such condition... And this study, too, in a way... in some places it is highly questionable when it comes to average wages in industries that... Here you are trying to pretend that this is why people go away from work. So, I mean, the fact that the officials... For example, so many have left the same Ministry of Health! There are very many officials who leave public administration, and not the reward is the main reason why they leave. This is a marked phenomenon during this parliamentary term, and I think there are quite other reasons why people are leaving public administration, from high positions of office. In this case... I am not once faced with the problem that there would be no people in Latvia who want to stand as President of Latvia. And not once... I do not remember that there would have been a debate about this remuneration being too high. There was one President - Mr Berzin - who refused to pay at all, that was so, but that would not be the reason why the President could be expected to pay 42 percent more. Therefore, colleagues, I call on you to be so courageous and to explain this approach. Perhaps the rapporteur could explain on behalf of the commission responsible what exactly those arguments were, why was this rule, the factor 7 included in this draft law? I doubt if anyone will be able to explain it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U321	I closed the debate. Mr Kozlovsky, will you comment after the debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U322	I won't comment. The question is whether this proposal should be put to the vote. It's identical.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U323	It is not voting, yes. It was a debate. Thank you. Go on. Go to proposal 10. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U324	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal. It is also an identical proposal, such as the previous one. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U325	Members have not applied for a debate. This means that they share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U326	11. - The Cabinet's proposal. It intends to supplement the draft law with a new article related to reimbursement of representation expenses established by the President of Latvia. The Commission will be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U327	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U328	Colleagues, this is the proposal that I have already spoken about. So, these representation expenses. It's good that we talk so early about these representation expenses that sometime... is focused on the future. However, at the moment, it is also a question of how these representation expenses are justified and necessary if the wage increase is 42 per cent. I think it's not just wrong and unethical, it's... This is an additional bonus, which is added by nature to these 42 percent. In this proposal, you see that it is 20 per cent of the monthly salary of an official. So they're gonna be... Well, in principle, it's going to be... We can count... it will be 50-60 percent - this is the sum of the wage increases that will be carried out by the President of Latvia. What is the basis for this? It's hard to say. But the government... And now it's no longer the State Chancellery, which... In the project of the National Chancellery... It is an error, as Mr Feldman said... How it happens... amending the budget... So... an error was found when... The President of our State... no representation expenses have been included in the representation expenses of his spouse. Why such an error, once found... What are the reasons why such a correction should be made? In my opinion, there is no place or time for such an amendment. I call on my colleagues: do not support the following proposal prepared by the government. There's a remote job right now. Well, maybe there's some kind of representation needed, okay, yeah, but... Colleagues, here is a place to remind you of the comparison of how... what the costs are for the Presidential Registrys in Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania. When we make such a comparison, of course, ours stand out for some reason. So every budget... each annex calls for a very responsible assessment, especially if we have not earned this money, we have borrowed it. I do not think that this proposal found by the government will contribute to economic growth, economic growth, reducing inequalities or making things different. I think that this proposal symbolically shows how uneconomically the state budget is being dealt with by dividing this money to the right, to the left, without thinking at all that someone also needs this money, so I call for this proposal to be rejected as symbolically as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U329	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U330	Dear President, Dear colleagues, This, of course, does not belong to the legislator, nor to the President of Latvia, nor to the government, nor to the state - the fact that we are discussing here today the representation expenses for the President of Latvia and his spouse. In general, do I agree that at least the President of State (I will not talk about the spouse) needs representation expenses? Yes, I agree with this in general, but everything, absolutely everything, colleagues, is worth noting in the context. We're today... in a context that in the country there is a community pandemic that... The government has borrowed seven billion euros over four years. We have a situation where the country lacks 300 doctors and eight thousand nurses; we are in a situation where hospitals openly talk about the lack of financial resources to recruit nurses and doctors, despite all their money, and they call them volunteers. And, colleagues, in this context, we are being offered here not only to increase the President's salary by 40 percent (now that we're going to increase our medical fees by just a little more than four percent!) , but also to decide on representation expenses for the President of the State and his spouse; this will give 40 per cent of this increased salary. Now as a minimum, as an absolute minimum, there is a need for some sense of reality, a feeling of tact! I think if we're here, 13. In the Saeima, there would be a normal organisation of work and a normal relationship between all Members - between the position and the opposition - then I think neither this proposal nor all those 'flying proposals' would go out (and that would be right!) from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, so that we would not be ashamed today to talk about such things (in fact, shame), so to speak publicly, to all Latvian citizens that we are discussing here a proposal that provides for a salary supplement for the President of Latvia - an increase in salary of 40 per cent - and another 40 per cent for representation expenses. So the proposal, to put it mildly, is out of place. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U331	Name of Member Evia Papulei. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U332	Thank you. Madam President, colleagues. I call for this proposal to be rejected. If we look at the time of its implementation - 2023 - and look at the other budget items that... The coalition has already expressed in a serene way that increases the wage... and look at the budget line that concerns teachers, then... I think there's a sort of silence there for 2023. Increase in 2022... shall be EUR 900 at the minimum rate. So, most likely, in the country, the average salary of teachers will not be over a thousand, but the increase in 2023... additional funding and a certain amount of increase has not been pointed out by the coalition, but the increase in the remuneration of the state's chief officials has been taken care of by the additions - almost twice because it must be assumed that representation expenses are not just for the office of President... the executing person, but also any potential spouse or spouse... coverage of representation expenses is indeed to be regarded as an additional... a supplement to the remuneration. But for teachers? Will they remain the same EUR 900 in 2023? So these are your priorities now, talking about the future? I know there's no answer. Is the ruling coalition so optimistic that, if it doesn't teach itself to get out of the crisis right now, then the next government will be able to do so because it will pay them more? It is likely, however, that to a certain extent - planned action, including an increase in remuneration for those sectors which are currently working more and are, to a certain extent, in a crisis situation... they should also raise their remuneration, both in 2022, in 2023 and in the future. This would be your best contribution today to people who are now working in the chaos of the management of the effects of your community. I call for no support and symbolic rejection.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U333	The name of Member Regina Lochmele. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U334	I, unlike my colleagues, call for this proposal to be rejected, not in a symbolic way, but in its substance. More than that. I will appeal to the President of Latvia: you have every opportunity to ask the Saeima to re-examine this law because... I would remind you that when voting on urgency, it is about the urgency of this draft law! - 25 October this year, it was adopted by 52 votes in favour and 31 votes against. Two thirds of the Members therefore did not support this draft law as a matter of urgency. Thus, the President of Latvia has every opportunity to return this peculiar and anti-Popular political “will” to this Saeima for consideration. I call for this proposal to be rejected, not in symbolic terms, but in substance. And I call on the President not to proclaim this law and ask the Saeima to consider this law again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U335	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U336	Colleagues! Of course, the existence of representation expenses is understandable, but it is best about visual appearance or spending on hairstyles, manicure, pedicure, clothes, costumes, suits, tiles, parks and so on... The truth is expressed in works, not in visual, so to speak, in advertising. And it is the works that have not been done that will remain in people's memory; they will also represent both the Presidential Institute as such and the President as such. It is quite a common case of missions that happen and that are actually also such as a business card for the president - unusual speeches, premature speeches or speeches to the public, the budget package provides for additional expenditure on grand pianos, park arrangement, chair repairs or recreation... some specific room repairs... and so on, and so on. All this leaves a very negative representative background, and no cosmetic processes or procedures, nor any increase in the remuneration envisaged in relation to these relevant costs, will cover or be able to cover errors made. And if someone thinks that through representative publications they will be able to improve their image, enquire it, and ask about what they want, it is a very important mistake, and it is also trying to mislead the public. I say once again: I believe that the best work that the President could do is not to announce the introduction of compulsory social contributions... tax reform. This would be a truly great achievement, which would certainly be highly appreciated in the eyes of the public. And it covers anyone, including... In that case, an increase in representation expenses for the President's Institute would be forgiven. However, in view of the fact that it is actually proposed to introduce additional civil servants' posts and additional ministers and that a grande and additional financial resources are requested for representation expenses, it seems to me that this has a very negative impact on the image and that there will be no benefit from it. The public will remember these representative expenditures with a very high aftertaste, which is the negative background. Therefore, I will definitely not support this proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers and also call on other Members of the Saeima not to support the use of such funds that is from the taxpayer (the sound defect.) ... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U337	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - A proposal from the Cabinet! Please, let's vote! No, 51, against - 28, refrains. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U338	12. - a proposal from Members Pucenas, Papules, Girgens and Dombrovskis. It is proposed to exclude paragraph 7 of the draft law, which provides for an increase in the remuneration of municipal council members. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U339	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U340	Colleagues! This is the true face of the coalition: in this crisis, pay increases, borrowing increases debt to implement its pre-election programmes. However, I call on these coalition parties: to the next parliamentary elections, certainly not to be ashamed and to talk to their potential voters about things that, as you yourself have said, may be a bit painful. Now start talking about wage increases, start talking about the quotas that you have given yourself for the moment! Tell me what it is, and then let the voter appreciate it for your future action. And in this respect, too, this proposal - on the increase in the salary of members of the municipal council - has been drawn up. I believe that, in the present situation, it would not be right - also for the Council Members and also for the Presidents to increase the remuneration that can be achieved... even twice as much as ever. The term of office of the President is approximately EUR 3700 at present, with an increase of approximately EUR 5700. And in this respect, it could be asked: will such an increase in the salary also increase its productivity, and can it be measured as well? Personally, I believe that raising remuneration will not be able to motivate the presidents to operate with double capacity. For example, I... When I started in municipal elections, this salary was not the first thing to think about. The most important thing is to address the problems that the city's population is experiencing, and this is the main motivation. That's exactly what you could get, not what you get. And more. I would also like to remind you, of course, that Members elected in a municipality have the responsibilities of... In addition to the existing work that they already work on a daily basis, and the main motivation is to help both local and urban residents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U341	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U342	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Well, here, in general, you can also agree to the subject or the proposal... whether to increase the remuneration of municipal members following this territorial reform. Here it is already proposed to significantly increase, increase much more, pay directly to the members of the Riga City Council of the capital - more than to others. But that, honourable colleagues, raises such a rather basic question. As far as I understood, from ancient times it was considered (if we are talking specifically about the Riga City Council) - this work of the think tank is not a very professional job, so that it is full of load, as is at least meant by the Saeima Members. This assumption has always been that this is, as our colleague Kaspars Ģirgens has already pointed out, rather work for society, city and municipality. With such an increase in pay, it is more likely, colleagues, to qualify as a truly full-time professional political work. And that, colleagues, raises the question: is 60 Riga City Council members not too many Riga taxpayers? Is Riga really 60 percent of Latvia if we compare it with the number of members of the Saeima? I believe that colleagues, if we, at least the majority of the Saeima, really make such a decision today, then the next one should be a decision on the reduction of the members of the Riga Council. Maybe up to 20-30 Members. I invite you to think about this, or indeed, if we are moving towards a professional in terms of remuneration, so to say, a politician's work at the Riga Council, 60 Members are not too much for the back of the Riga taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U343	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U344	Honorary Head of the sitting! Colleagues! I will ask you not to support this proposal and will explain why. In our view, the context and several contexts really need to be looked at here. The first is precisely this administrative territorial reform. And here I have to agree with my colleague, Mr Dombrovskis, that, with regard to Riga, which is the largest municipality in terms of population and with the greatest economic concentration, this reform did not, at all, come into any way whatsoever. Neither to Riga nor to Pierīga this cooperation with the municipalities of Pieriga in any way... and that, in my opinion, is one of the major shortcomings of this reform. The second lack of this reform, the lack of administrative territorial reform, is linked to these new, large regions. The new, large districts (we are quite unique at the moment in the European Union with our model of municipal governance), where we very clearly demonstrate that these areas, in my view, are losing their meaning in general, i.e. their power is moving away from the population. Instead of doing something about the President's initiative and some of our parliamentary colleagues on zero-level municipalities, this has not been done. Instead, we have huge municipalities whose territory can be measured... there are even those where from one end to another 100 kilometres or more, which shows that this area is a very big challenge in how to manage such an area at all. And there must be a really serious system, an organisational structure, how to do it successfully. We have territories where there are four, five municipalities combined and very difficult situations, whatever the way this governance is organised. The success of its management will, of course, also require greater involvement of Members. We had before the municipalities where the Members received (that was the decision of the municipalities) 20 euros per month, for example. It was like that. There was a whole range of such municipalities, and if a Member pays EUR 20 per month, he could hardly be required to have really much involvement. At present, the involvement of Members is necessary; it is an objective need; it is precisely the involvement of Members, including the Presidents of the Councils, in the governance. Of course, it is publicly known that Riga is mentioned here. Then also about Riga - in what way, let us say, the members of the Council were acting before that, and in what way they were earning income. The question of the rule of law, but from a moral point of view, I think it was not the most correct way to solve the brothers of the law who had developed with regard to this remuneration system, including Riga, and who are currently being offered. But colleagues, why do I not support this proposal and why I cannot evaluate this and the next proposals, as well as the previous proposals, for example, on the remuneration of the President. We set the President's remuneration in very specific terms: that will be the case. In these proposals, responsibility is transferred closer to the population - the local government - and, believe me, it is not a simple draft decision - by voting in favour of the Members' or Chair's remuneration or other related matters, because it affects other local authorities as well, whether it is an Executive Director or Executive Bodies. It also automatically affects other posts. Therefore, in this case, colleagues, we set by law, we set maximum rates. We only set maximum rates. The choice of this rate will be made by the thinkers themselves, it is in their hands, and there they will also be able to judge. It significantly distinguishes the remuneration of municipal members within the meaning of that law from any other remuneration included in that law. In essence, the ideal option would be that municipal members would be removed from this law in general and would allow each council to decide for itself. This proposal lays down... I support this concept of the draft law in this part. I call for this proposal not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U345	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U346	Thank you. Indeed, this issue is much more serious than it seems, because the question of remuneration for municipal councillors should have been dealt with when we implemented administrative territorial reform, when the number of councillors was increased, when their functions changed, when the size and tasks of local authorities changed, and the number of local authorities also increased. At that time, it should have been decided, and I agree with Mr Valaiņa that this issue of remuneration of municipal councillors should have been removed from this law. Not only because it does not really fall within the general system of public administration, but because it has its own characteristics, which regulates, by the way, the European Charter of Local Authorities. It is natural that municipal Members, unlike Members of the Saeima, are more responsible for issues such as remuneration. There are two differences here... One difference, forgiveness. And the difference is it. We are talking here about the remuneration of the heads of the council, but the members of the council are, by definition, compensated for their work on the subject of the council. It is a compensation, they do not have a permanent salary, because they all work or occupy paid positions, or work in business or otherwise. Therefore, there is no such uniform approach to matters of remuneration. It would therefore be important to remove this issue from the single remuneration law. Like, by the way, there is a separately regulated work of municipal members, which, as you know, is governed by the law on the status of municipal member. That is why the question is very complex. I think that the ruling coalition has not thought particularly much about this matter, and the Cabinet of Ministers in drafting this proposal... not a proposal for a bill, but in the law of these norms, had not thought about the consequences and what it all relates to. It is difficult for me to support, and to reject, today's proposal, because the issue, I say again, is very serious. Personally, I say openly, I will not take part in the vote on this matter and I hope that the ruling coalition will proceed as planned for all the other proposals as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U347	The name of Member Ramona Petraviča. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U348	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting and honourable colleagues! It is really quite cynical to talk today about raising salaries for Members, for President, for Ministers, on the day that very many lose their jobs, because today is 15 November, and both teachers and kindergartens, naughters, people working in different municipal institutions simply lose their jobs. They are disfellowshipped, not allowed to work and earn a living, and they are deprived of their means of subsistence. On the day we decide to raise the salary for the members of the local government, in the same municipality a seeder stays today without money, without food, without the possibility of paying bills. We are talking about this at a time when the minimum wage is EUR 500 per country and a huge number of people are receiving the minimum wage. We are talking about the possibility for the municipality to set its own remuneration for Members, and the same we were talking about a year ago and decided that, however, the municipalities would be able to make their own decision, and they are already the ceilings, and they can decide differently. And if we look at it, there are a lot of municipalities that really have a maximum salary ceiling. But if a Member receives EUR 20 in a municipality, he gets only according to the job he has invested. Municipal Members shall be authorised to join the posts. A Member's job is not a basic job, and accordingly, as far as he is interested in investing his time and work for society, he also receives such remuneration. The office of a municipal Member does not need to be nourished, but it is really a post that has led a person to do something for his own municipality. And now look in the eyes of these people who are being laid off today, those who receive a minimum wage and talk about raising their wages, it's really cynical. Therefore, please support all proposals relating to the prevention of pay for senior state and local government officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U349	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U350	I think colleagues, it's going to be very difficult to find... As an example of the EUR 20, I refer to the previous situation before the administrative territorial reform. At the moment, I think it will be difficult to find a municipality in which Members receive EUR 20. Maybe they are, but I haven't heard of them. In any case, the principle as such that this issue should not have been in this law at all during the crisis. During the previous crisis - 2009 - the municipalities included a single remuneration system, a single remuneration law, thus creating a single remuneration ceiling system that during the crisis... there were circumstances, I was far from politics at the time, but at least my colleagues have said that at that time it was necessary to cut these wages, and this was the case, but it is time has passed, and it only shows that the municipalities are still a different structure and, as Mr Dolgopolova said, their operation is also governed by the European Charter of Local Authorities. However, municipalities are autonomous departments and, as I said, the question of remuneration cannot be disagreed with in this law; I think that there has been little understanding here for government representatives of the situation in municipalities, which will also be reflected in future proposals. However, by nature, if we are in this situation, I call for maximum rates to be fixed and again and again - this is a local decision in which we have to trust them, but in the background, if we know that local authorities... 300 million removed from the municipal budgets, well, I don't know if there's going to be an end to salary increases. Maybe there will be somewhere, but then it will be necessary to explain to citizens why. I call for this proposal not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U351	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U352	Very short now. Indeed, in its own time, this provision on the remuneration of a municipal member was included in the economic crisis. And indeed it worked only for the sake of not equalising pay conditions, but for the purpose of avoiding waste of this type of activity. Its norm was artificially incorporated into this law, and it is high time to remove it from the remuneration law. One point. Two points. The proposal that the municipal council itself set the amount of remuneration for the next council, and not only its number but also its number of members in the municipality, was once misjudged. The referendum law, the municipal referendum law, unfortunately, does not provide for this type of support or support on the part of the population, which would also be very important - that citizens should be given rights, but these are completely different principles for wage formation. And the last one. No municipality, no council will be able to give such a reward as perhaps I would like without talking about and thinking about budgetary opportunities and budgetary priorities. And the municipalities, as a rule, do not do this, unlike the coalition ruling the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U353	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - A proposal from Members Pucenas, Papules, Girgens and Dombrovskis! Please, let's vote! For - 24, for - 54, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U354	13. - the proposal by Members Svekova and Stepanenko. In fact, it's identical to the previous one. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U355	Yes, there is no vote, but there is a debate. The floor in the debate for Member Lubova Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U356	Colleagues, according to the new reform, for example, the Chairman of Riga City Council will receive a salary of up to 5706 euros per month, the Deputy Chairman of the Council will receive a salary of up to 4716 euros and the municipal member will receive a salary of up to 1435 euros in Riga City Council. Presidents of the City Council and District Council, with more than 50 thousand inhabitants, will receive a monthly salary of 4716 euros. The capital cities... No, I'm sorry. Deputy Chairperson of the Council with population... more than 50,000 people... receive remuneration of EUR 3732. A municipal member will receive a salary of up to EUR 1333 in the relevant territory. And respectively the City Council and the District Council with a population of less than 50 thousand inhabitants... will receive remuneration of EUR 3732 and the deputy will receive EUR 3178, and the member of the municipality with a population of less than 50 thousand will receive remuneration of EUR 1230. And now, my fellow Members, we differentiate remuneration and we say that, yes, it is necessary, because we need to strengthen competitiveness, but do we also decide and strengthen the competitiveness of citizens, respectively, by increasing the coefficients, increasing the relevant remuneration or the ability to receive appropriate remuneration? We know that in Latvia the amount of the finally differentiated livelihood calculated has been created. And in rural areas, it is calculated at EUR 360 for the pensioner. Please tell me, what is the difference between EUR 360 and the remuneration that we set at the Riga Council up to EUR 5600? And is that really what this reward is deserved? I therefore also supported the previous proposal in the vote and believe that the reform of wages must be linked specifically to raising the level of welfare for citizens. The reform must involve structural changes in the context of the efficiency and effectiveness of public administration. There must also be a clear and understandable definition of what is introduced from digital projects, as it reduces access to services for citizens, from the Riga population to the rural population in Viļak, Medņeva or Varakļāni, so that every citizen knows that he or she can receive municipal services and knows what the remuneration of the Members concerned is being increased. Of this proposed reform, of an increase in wages, nothing is understood by people living on the ground. What's better for them? What would make them more effective? And there are also a lot of questions and uncertainties in the business environment. In the context of territorial administrative reform, at least for the time being, I do not see a reduction in the bureaucratic burden on the population of the relevant bodies, or a simplification of procedures and greater accessibility for people. That is why I also do not support such a reform of remuneration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U357	I closed the debate. This proposal was debated but not put to the vote. Go on. Proposal No 14.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U358	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Nemir's proposal. Identical to the previous proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U359	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U360	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr Valaiņa's In part, the Commission has been supported and included 21. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U361	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U362	16. - the proposal of Member Indricson. In fact, it is similar to the previous one, with this reduction envisaged. Also partially supported, included 21. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U363	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U364	17. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal to replace the words "to 3,10" in point 5 of the first paragraph of Article 7 of the draft law with "to 3,2". The Commission was not supported, but there was an explanation that this issue was resolved in 20, and then also in 21, which is a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U365	Members have not applied for a debate, but have asked for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - Member Viktor Valain's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U366	18. - the proposal of Member Indricson. Also associated with coefficients. And neither did the Commission support this, but this issue has been resolved, as I said, in the forthcoming proposals - 20 and 21.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U367	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U368	19. - Mr Valaina's proposal. It is also actually related to these coefficients, and it is also dealt with in the articles I mentioned. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U369	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U370	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The Cabinet's proposal. These coefficients, which are linked to the population of municipalities, shall be provided as appropriate. There are 30 thousand here as this criterion. It was partly supported and included in the Commission 21. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U371	Members have requested a vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 20. - A proposal from the Cabinet! Please, let's vote! For - 4, for - 55, for - 13. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U372	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. As I have already said, this includes proposals that were partly supported before, and the committee has also decided, in the debate and during the debate, to reduce this population criterion from 50 thousand initially to 20 thousand. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U373	Members have requested a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 21. - The proposal submitted by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please, let's vote! For - 55, for - 18, for - 1. Proposal 21 is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U374	22. - a proposal from Members Pucenas, Papules, Girgens and Dombrovskis. It is envisaged to exclude paragraph 8 of the draft law, which means that the proposal contains the idea of not increasing the remuneration of Members of the Saeima and elected officials of the Saeima. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U375	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U376	Colleagues, 13. In the Saeima, we have been very successful in freezing our wages, which I believe should also be done in the next Saeima. And it must be understood that, at this point in time, this reward would not be the most correct one that should be increased, as well as the ministerial remuneration, the presidential pay, as well as the Members... We now need to focus more on the health sector, and also focus on the home sector. And I believe that, at the moment, this would not be the subject we should talk about and spend time on, because action is needed on much more important issues. We should also talk in the future about these additional allowances that Members receive on pay, about the same members and secretaries, why is it that their role and function in these commissions, because it is now obvious that, for most of the Commissions, they are simple to be as members and secretaries, and with their signature, only confirms the minutes. It is also necessary to discuss whether it would be necessary to increase the remuneration of these officials. So there's a place for discussion. But at the moment, I would urge you not to support this proposal by the Cabinet of Ministers, which has been created by the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U377	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U378	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Dear colleagues, I understand humanly, of course, the desire to raise wages, including for myself. But let us ask ourselves, Colleagues, “What has highlighted this one 13. The Saeima and the government? On what merits do we consider the following decision to be necessary: to raise our pay? What is the criterion for how well this Saeima and this government have worked?’ If we colleagues look at the results of sociological surveys, if we look, for example, at SKDS data on the level of trust of the Saeima and the Cabinet of Ministers since 8. For the parliamentary elections, we will see that, for example, if we are talking about this government, then the level of trust for the Cabinet of Ministers at the moment or the last data available in October is only 17 percent - only 17 percent of the Latvian people who were interviewed said that they trust this government. This level, colleagues, has been the lowest since the times before the Order No. 2. It was the last time that the government had such a low level of trust. There is, of course, still where to fall, the whole anti-record that was achieved in 2008 during the crisis has not been achieved, but its trend is very negative. If we talk about confidence in the Saeima, then it is actually even lower than the government, the salt is lower - only 16 percent of Latvians trust the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia. This assessment is lower than when 13. The Saeima started work. Well, at least unlike the government, there were times when confidence in the Saeima was even lower than it is today. This was in 2016, and it was also in 2013. So, colleagues, it is not quite clear what is the basis for today 13. The family would congratulate themselves on doing a good job. This Saeima, as I have said many times before, has increased public debt by seven billion euros over four years, leaving this burden to our children and grandchildren. This increase in public debt is greater than... More than EUR 6 billion of salt, which is the total debt of the Estonian State. Thus, within four years, this Saeima and this government have increased the public debt by a higher amount than Estonia over the entire 30-year period. Well those of you who really think that 13. The Saeima has done a very good job, and so can the government, of course, vote against this proposal, and let it remain on your conscience. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U379	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U380	The President of the sitting. Colleagues! Now this is the question where absolute illogical and incomprehensible fundamentals appear, the principles according to which the drafters of the law, in this case the government, have followed and how they have reached such coefficients. So if we look at this range to figure out. So, the Auditor General, plus 53 percent... this range to understand. So the Auditor General - plus 53 per cent increase in salary, plus 52 per cent increase in salary for the parliamentary secretary, plus 33 per cent increase in salary for the Prime Minister, plus 33 per cent increase for ministers - plus 33 per cent increase in salary for the Ombudsman - plus 53 per cent increase in salary. Members of the Saeima have a modest nine percent. Can anyone explain in some way in a way, in a way, where these figures come from, the coefficients taken into account, how the government has reached some kind of offer? If we look at the time of entry into force... That's 2023. And in a way, this Saeima, with this vote, gives a lift to the next, the 14th Saeima. This Saeima has chosen to give a trip bag, which can also be a financial burden. It could be... Now it will certainly happen that it will be a question that the next Saeima will also have to look at whether to accept it, not to accept it, how Latvian citizens will also appreciate it, how it is right. But in this case, I think there is one very important thing about the fact that, in my opinion, the Saeima decides to freeze Members' salaries. For myself, this Saeima, in my view, would not be right to open this debate on its own pay. And if you once open this debate, you should do it in a respectful manner, looking at the draft law in three readings, allowing Members to table proposals, their vision, and the creation of criteria. As I mentioned, there is room for some kind of criteria for determining the remuneration of Members of the Saeima in a much more detailed way than it is now, at which point it is growing, at which point it may be decreasing, so that it is sustainable. In this case, there is once again some coefficient, something has been changed. Members are now invited to vote and to pass on their inheritance to the next Saeima. And if we are talking about inheritances, I would rather see this Saeima hand over to the next Saeima an inheritance, such as doctor's salaries - indeed 10 per cent from 2023, and in other areas where we could really make the situation somewhat difficult for the next Saeima and already vote for some basic things that should be, from which should not depart, which should be on the priority agenda of the next Saeima. This, 13, Saeima transfers such an inheritance with Members' remuneration. This is what the next Saeima will get from this Saeima. Not a plan to raise the remuneration of road foundations or education, scientific growth or pre-school teachers, or to take on holiday under the state budget; they will receive Members' salaries. Colleagues! You are not a bit embarrassed by such inheritance transfer to the next Saeima? Who knows who's going to work in it, but maybe it's better to leave it really... Now we even touch one subject, the medicine. Could we really not leave a rise in medical wages for the next Saeima? Here we offer Members... And if you have the priority of Members, ask yourself how well you feel about your work during this term and how the public evaluates the results of your work. I think they're not very positive. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U381	The name of Member Eric Pucen. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U382	Hello, colleagues! We can see in a number of studies what public support is for both the Saeima and the government as a whole. These data show the attitude of people, but whether people will go to the elections, that is still a big question. But I have to ask myself: what the Saeima, which the government has done so, has dared and is so brave to talk about the future and to decide now about the Member... To raise the remuneration of both Saeima Members, Ministers and the President of Latvia? This is completely incomprehensible. I have a question which sector is organised... I mean, just one sector... would have arranged at least one sector, whether fire-fighters' wages would have been in order, medical wages, police wages... Now or somewhere, Latvia's development plan has been put in place, where we see that really after five years our policemen, investigators will get a certain salary, where people will go and work with pride, and will receive humane salaries. Is there at least one sector like this? It's not like every year, the coalition's been talking to one another, who's gonna get more pay. And we see that there is no such plan for either the head of government or the government, there are only such excuses. We see that a draft law of this kind is being placed under the cover of the budget, on which Members will be forced to vote in order to keep the government and to have the budget adopted. This is not good practice, and this draft law should clearly have been in three readings, with the opportunity to debate and submit proposals. It is a pity that these people have chosen such a move. I hope... from the National Association, when they were so proud to announce that Members' salaries were frozen... then be so proud and support this proposal, and don't sit down. So I call, colleagues, to support, and we end up hypocritically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U383	The name of Member Ramona Petraviča. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U384	Indeed, thinking what this Saeima and government have done... Well, it's not... There has really been a great deal of work done, because the country has been brought into one deep crisis, there are extremely many pointless restrictions, there are chaos, your indecision on both the Saeima and the government has been a failed vaccination project, there is a total drop in ratings for both the government and huge distrust for Parliament, politicians, the people involved, discrimination introduced and, ultimately, human rights have been ended. But the name of Latvia has been expressed all over the world, because Latvia is the only country that has prohibited elected members of the people from participating in and voting by adopting laws. Now it is really a powerful work that has been done, at least the Latvian name is now known everywhere. So this reward is probably due to the fact that the next Saeima will really have to fight a lot to collect the entire poodle... which has been made to take part in the numerous court hearings, which await the state of Latvia, while adjudicating on all these human rights and all others, and to repay also those borrowings that have been taken and deleted. Yeah, I guess it's really... they will have to work well for the next, and this reward is needed as a bonus and thanks for what they will have to do... for the inheritance that has been left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U385	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U386	Dear colleagues, I invite you to look at the purpose of this draft law, as it had been prepared and came from the Cabinet of Ministers at all. The aim of the draft law is to ensure competitiveness, and I stress that competitiveness between public sector remuneration and remuneration in the private sector. And if you read an annotation of the draft law, then you will mostly see in the justification examples of public administration staff leaving public administration because they are employed in the private sector, because the private sector is stifling them with more pay. But, honourable colleagues, please tell me, is something like that happening with the ministers of the government and the Members of the Saeima? When, Colleagues, it was the last time someone... When to the Saeima... One Member of the Saeima appointed a mandate to accept a more attractive job offer in the private sector? When was the last time a minister left the government because he had a better offer in terms of salary as an excellent professional in the private sector? Well, what? Could any of you please tell me when it was the last time it was? Has there ever been anything like this? The colleague asked the question: what is the justification? Well, if we read from annotation, it is written here: at the same time, there cannot be a situation where, with the changes in the monthly salaries of officials and staff, the monthly salary of officials elected, approved and appointed by the Saeima would remain unchanged.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U387	Thank you, Mr Dombrovskis, your time is up. Name of Member Evia Papulei. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U388	Madam President, colleagues. Well, to be honest, before we started to discuss and debate this law, the only speaker and representative of the coalition said that this law was long awaited and that its adoption requires courage. I don't know if courage always goes with reason, but yet, yes, courage is to show nihilism and show narcissism. Yeah, that's courage. In the incomplete composition of the Saeima, reject those Members who... in breach of the present Constitution as well as 100 Members of the Constitution, to prevent the... and, yes, in this case also raise the wages for yourself. So in the co-situation and in the co-situation, coalition, you will enter history with two very nice, relatively pragmatic decisions of narcissism and nihilistism. First, make the Saeima even smaller, and secondly, raise wages for themselves in overcoming the co-founder's consequences. Now it must be thought that it is the historians who study 13. The activities of the Saeima and especially when looking at what the coalition or decision-makers have done, will be surprised by this kind of narcissism and nihilism. Have teachers also raised their salaries in 2023? No, no. Is there a steady increase in the salaries of medical staff in the context of the management of the community? No, no. The promise has not been fulfilled. However, there are higher wages for senior officials, thus increasing competition. With whom? With the leaders of other countries? You are not close to them at the moment with your own decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U389	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U390	Colleagues, I did not intend to apply for the second time in this debate, but Vjačeslav Dombrovskis in a way challenged me by asking whether we could really give just one example when Members would have left. And here I have to say... I will give you several examples. I will give the first example in the government. I have seen ministers resign in the government. Apparently suddenly, for example, Aivis Ronis. There was a traffic minister. I think he was a very good traffic minister. And he left, justifying his departure in a relationship... senior officials... In some ways, the question of remuneration was also the one in which he did not receive government support. But it was not a question of his personal remuneration as a minister. It has never played any role. If we look at the Saeima, then this same Saeima, 13. In the name of the Saeima, my colleague... It is a great pity, but Dana Reizniece-Ozola left the Saeima, set down the mandate and became the Managing Director of the International Shaha Federation, and I think it is now proud to bring Latvia's name to the world. And also in this case the reward wasn't the reason she left. And finally, Vjačeslav Dombrovskis, 12. In the Saeima, it was you who laid down the parliamentary mandate and went to do others... challenges in the field of science. But also in Mr Dombrovskis' case, I do not think that the reason why he left the Saeima was a question of pay. So, colleagues, there are examples, but they have never been about pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U391	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U392	Hello, Latvian society! Hello, Members of the Saeima! In reality, there is a case in the Republic of Latvia when one elected person does not accept the mandate, his name Juncker must have been or something like that, and he went to Hong Kong on the best reward so that “Unity” Solvita Āboltiņa can be in power so that “Unity” can continue to rule. So the example is. And it describes this cynical government as such. But I do not want to speak from a position that I think is wrong. This position demands explaining to the public why Members who have been in power, among other things, are talking about the fact that senior officials of the state should not increase their remuneration, including Members, including Karina and all the others who do not like me, but are dividing two parts here. The first part is what the audience likes and, of course, the public likes... Given that public confidence in Parliament and power is so low, it is clear that the position - let us not pay high wages, then we will somehow show them, those Members of the Saeima and all the others - is understandable, but it is wrong and unfair. And I'll explain what I mean. The whole Latvian society wants to be able, intelligent, independent people to enter Latvian politics, while Latvian society wants these capable, intelligent people to give up their comfort zone, their income in the private sector, similar. Is there anything to do with it? The largest court in Latvia's policy on the existing remuneration system is easy to buy small people, long small people, because large people with great abilities very rarely go to politics, because it requires a great personal sacrifice. No matter how unpopular it is, Latvian society has to say, and I am not talking about the crisis, I am talking about a common concept in general: capable, intelligent, educated people will not come to work in parliament for 2000 euros or for 3,000 euros to be a minister, or so knowing that Forester can earn 2-3 thousand without any responsibility, without declarations, without daily detention in public space and so on. Why should a person give up his comfort zone just to trap him for receiving a huge reward and so on? That is why, in our policy, there are so many marketable souls that we are not really talking about this subject. Clearly, the question is: in times of crisis, is it right to increase pay - at a time when many are losing their jobs? That is another question. But the concept in itself - that eternal concept that the Head of State can only be honest if he is poor, or only when he gets a very low salary, then the same most honest will come, is completely wrong. It doesn't happen anywhere. If we want smart, competitive and independent people in politics, young, independent people in politics, then we need to offer adequate remuneration. I think that, in this context, we should form that debate. And I'm going to want to unite the times with this.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U393	Your times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U394	And that's why it's narrative about the Saeima being bad... Yes, this Saeima is me too, as it says, has tried very hard to humiliate, left the punishments, failed to pay wages and so on. I believe, while standing here today and speaking, that Karin has to sit in real prison. And I hope that will happen one day, just as it will threaten some of the 62 Members who voted in fact for the totalitarian regime. But the concept itself, if we speak honestly... then you don't have to pretend! You do not have to pretend, and you do not have to hope that honest, wise government leaders will simply come and sacrifice their entire life for free. It does not happen anywhere in the world, nor does it happen in the world’s most advanced, richest countries. Mr Dombrovskis likes to mention Singapore, for example. Singapore’s famous Prime Minister said very clearly: “If you want a good country, then you have to look for the wisest people for the highest pay.” And that's the only way. It is clear that there is not a Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau that puts them in yellow manure in Daugava, but a real Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau and in such a spirit. Otherwise, this discussion should be established, and then it would be real and would give the country something more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U395	I closed the debate. Mr. Kozlovsky, will you answer on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U396	On behalf of the Commission, I would just remind you that the 22nd proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-15-PT13-2321-U397	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 22. - the proposal tabled by Members Pucenas, Papules, Girgens and Dombrovskis! Please, let's vote! -30, against -54, refrains - not. The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, The Bureau has received a proposal from Member Juris Pūce, Krista Baumane, Gata Zamura, Mārtiņš Šteins and Viesturs Liepkalna - request to declare a break at the Saeima's second extraordinary meeting of 15 November 2021 until 9 a.m. on 16 November. We must vote on this proposal. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the motion put to the vote by Mr Pouce, Ms Baumane, Mr Zamura, Ms Stein and Mr Liepkalns on the interruption of the sitting by 9 a.m. on 16 November! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 74, it's against - 7, it's not. So the sitting is suspended until tomorrow at 9 a.m. on November 16. Registration of Members' presence. It's over. So the sitting is suspended until tomorrow at 9 a.m. on November 16. Good evening! ( Interruption)
