ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U1	Dear Members, Honourable Members! The agenda of the second remote extraordinary session of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 21 January 2021 is open. ‘ Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal, expression of trust or distrust of officials’. Draft decision on the removal of Rolanda Irkla from the post of Chairman of the Board of the Public Service Regulatory Commission. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ralph Nemiro. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U2	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Colleagues! The Commission therefore examined the draft decision on the removal of Rolands Irke from the chair of the Board of the Public Service Regulatory Commission with effect from 27 January 2021 on the basis of an application for resignation. In the Commission, before Members decided to support this draft decision, we also invited the Public Service Regulatory Commission to learn about the organisation of further work. As the President has expressed his wish to resign, Intars Birzins will be appointed as the performer of the President's office, and the succession or such succession of the Public Service Regulatory Commission is actually ensured. Members also had a number of questions relating to the regulatory areas of the regulator, in particular concerning the charging of the ‘High-voltage Network’ and so on, while the members of the panel received replies. On behalf of the Commission, please support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U3	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the repeal of Rolanda Irkla from the post of Chairman of the Board of the Public Service Regulatory Commission! Please vote mode! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. The next item is "Provision of draft decisions". On the agenda - draft decision “On Cabinet of Ministers Order of 14 January 2021 No. Order Nos 19 and 15 January 2021 24 amending Order of 6 November 2020 No. 655 ‘Proclaiming an emergency’. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U4	Hello, colleagues! In its meeting of 20 January 2021, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption reviewed the Cabinet of Ministers’ orders of 14 and 15 January 2021 on amendments to the Order on Promulgating an Emergency. As you know, the situation is now slightly stabilising, but it has not changed substantially. These amendments are therefore quite laconic. I will only list the most important of them. Thus, it is envisaged to provide for an exception to the limits on the working hours of catering and commercial service providers, provided that the working hours of the public limited company Riga International Airport are not limited during the so-called home sittings. The order also provides for the deletion of the point according to which persons arriving in Latvia from Great Britain and Northern Ireland carry out the Covid-19 test at the airport. Such a requirement is no longer relevant due to amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No. 360 ‘Eliminal security measures to limit the spread of Covid-19 infection’, providing that, from 15 January 2021, passengers must present on board the carrier a document certifying that the person has carried out the Covid-19 test for 72 hours before boarding the vehicle and that this test is negative. Or a medical document attesting that the person is not infectious must be presented. Similarly, the paragraph governing winter holidays for 2020 and 2021 has been amended and it is added that these conditions do not apply to the acquisition of education at a distance. The order also provides that Latvian public media, subject to compliance with the requirements of the necessary laws, are entitled to transfer their content, which is related to the 1991 barricades, free of charge for use by other media. On the other hand, the order of 15 January provides for the establishment of a vaccination office and related organisational issues. In the Commission, having heard the representatives of the ministries, institutions, Infectologists, legal experts, the amendments to the Ordinance, as decided by the government, were found to be justified, proportionate and necessary in the specific situation. Therefore, I invite you to support the draft decision prepared by the Commission, which supports amendments to the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers in the declared emergency situation. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U5	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U6	Dear colleagues, If we start talking about the vaccination office, probably a number of our fellow Members have prepared a question concerning the level of remuneration of the staff of the vaccination office, which, in our view, is, of course, totally disproportionate in this situation, given that the Ministry of Health itself is already carrying out these functions, which it is currently trying to provide to the office in addition... from additional budgetary resources. That is absolutely unacceptable in these circumstances. Of course, we also understand that vaccination - the vaccination of the population and the vaccination of workers - is everything that wants this vaccine... In order to serve all these people, the process needs to be managed, a plan is needed, but it is, of course, clear that, in this situation, the establishment of a vaccination office, with the arrival of a new minister, shows that this crisis is still a source of opportunity for many of you, honourable colleagues. By continuing, of course, the subject of the education process, we see that the education process is still at such an impasse that parents... Without explaining in any way to the parents of grades 1-4, just children were kept for two weeks at the weekend, forced at the weekend without ensuring the training process, so that the children would go to remote training next week. Who will be responsible for this? We will, of course, also ask Mr Kariņš. We are also preparing a request so that Mr Kariņš can finally demonstrate his strategic planning to us. But, speaking more about tests, about testing our people who are returning, for example, from England - well, in my personal opinion too, certainly had to leave the tests, not proof of 72 hours. Because - what happens if, for example, a person leaves for two days. Then it happens that when he returns to Latvia, he drives with the same test result that he has had when he left. Or if a person goes to work and does not have the opportunity to do and wait 72 hours there on that side, he is not entitled to return to his homeland at all. That is what you have decided at the moment. If, for example, a person cannot present a test because he has not had the opportunity to perform this test - quite simply everything is hard, there is no possibility, then in this situation it happens that a citizen of the Republic of Latvia will be stopped at the border of the Republic of Latvia... apprehended until some time. You cannot explain this because the rules state that the border guard can also stop the vehicle. What happens next to this person, with the citizen of Latvia who does not have the test on his hand? Can you please explain this? I am, of course, sorry that I am doing this right now, during the debate in the Saeima, because we cannot all participate in the meetings of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption, but this is a very important issue. This is an issue that concerns the right to return home guaranteed by the Constitution of our fellow citizens. So far, there was a clear requirement: on the border, we are carrying out a test, we are driving ourselves, we are waiting for a result and we are acting according to the situation. But what you've come up with now is really blue miracles, colleagues. I would very much await a comment from a responsible Member who has understood this situation. Perhaps Mr. Rancan could also explain. Thank you very much. I'm calling...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U7	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U8	Dear Society! Dear colleagues! The state of emergency in Latvia has turned into a legal form for brutal theft. The vaccination office, where Pavlut will slap some of his piaarists or something, is a classic example of this. Studies by a community of over half a million... Where money was released in spring, where all beet recipes and how to cut cucumbers and tomato are another example. And these are only the flowers we see, because many things we don't see. Mask purchases, where quite certain known ones, including politicians, should be brought before the court. Instead, what are they doing? We cannot even answer my colleague Zarina's questions on this subject. Another thing that is interesting is that I think I am sure, but I will ask you, my colleagues, this question, I will give a hint to the public. What would be the distribution of votes in society today for and against the state of emergency, piloting, masks and so on? I have heard the rumours that Switzerland is going to tackle this problem with a referendum so that the power can get a little drawn up there, just as in some good banana republic, in which people's interests have long been no longer interested, in which children Šuplinska have still not even developed any vision of the learning process. And I'm calling people to see how long you're gonna sit, wait? Well, we got to get up, we got to get Shuplinsk, we got Karin, we got to stop stealing it. Well, we don't need regular vaccination tips, as says: "All the Councils of Power!" - as in Soviet times 30 years ago. Put it in, what did you want there? That's Mrs. Kriwad? She finished tourism in Valmiera. She'll be a vaccine specialist now? Really? For five thousand euros per month. Just because she's made PR for Viņķelis and Pavilut. We don't need PR making vaccines. What we need is if you want to vaccinate those who want to vaccinate, just vaccinate them. As Estonia or Lithuania do, rather than planning some time in spring, to take their state of emergency longer, longer. The longer the state of emergency, the longer it can be brutal theft... To steal your people, your country. That is what is happening now. Society, you don't see that? I know you see it. Turn off televisions and look around what's happening. You people steal. Everything. While cats' tears - they are rejected - you are then sent the State Revenue Service with machines to prevent the transfer of 20 euros in the bank's account. Some will even have five thousand wages for nothing in principle. Because we already do not have a State Council for Immunization and some health council, and we do not yet have a Latvian Medical Association - we do not have anything. That's what we need to do for the piaarists. Education is also... It's some kind of... You don't need wise people, because wise people will certainly not be able to tell all the tricks that are told in the basic trauma of serious faces, polite and such... Such gentle suspensions. Society, it's high time! If you don't want the desert here, it's time! We need to become more active. I have to tap the bullet table and say, “It’s all! Stop!’ There will be no banana republic in Latvia, and this theft, brutal theft must stop now. In your hands, society, that's it. They're afraid of you. They are not afraid yet because you sit and remain silent. You should start taking action. And then they'll start to fear. Oh, how will you start to fear? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U9	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U10	Hello again to anyone who follows the sitting! Looking at how our government seems to be fighting this community's abyss, the memory comes with a cartoon from the children's days of dog Fun and wind. Like a dog, this dog Fun tried to catch the wind. And as a result, he did not succeed in any way. Then there was the moment when that dog Fun sat down, thought, thought, and figured out that we should think about it. Well, it's about that series of how our government works: they came up, thought, thought, and what did they figure out? They thought, well, there's something again, let's go... We will continue in the same spirit. Absolutely, it is not possible to draw conclusions about what you are doing, what you are doing, what you should do. And why is that? Why can it be proved to be so? If that were not the case, would this government have a real sense of mind, courage, and hatred to act in this situation, what would such a government do? First of all, it would come to society. Instead of simply throwing this decision down, you would say: “You know, nothing has come to us, but let us continue in the same spirit. Maybe something will happen at the end,” but it would come with an analysis of the situation, not simply with the crownology, with facts telling, but by analysing these facts, showing what is happening, what is not happening. Go on. It would come with a range of measures that they see what they could do in this situation and what each measure could or could not give. And then, knowing this analysis of the situation already... which would be given an analysis of how we understand... What the government understands is what actually happens, what is the rule of law. A plan of possible further action, possible measures in this situation, which may be. The government comes from this further with concrete proposals, which they then offer from it everything and why they offer it. That would be meaningful, consistent. This would indicate that this government understands what it is doing. I will not begin to analyse all the measures, because it can be demonstrated that this simple pointlessness and the failure they are dealing with - even for these schools themselves. Why would you have to prolong the break if you then figured that the teachings would continue at a distance? That's what he could do. I would like to touch really on this decision, which you are now proposing to approve, on the vaccination office. This is a remarkable example that shows once again that Latvia, as a democratic state, does not currently function. Because by nature, what does power do? It has schemed something of its own decision, which is now thrown down to us on the table and simply says, “Confirm it!” Excuse me, if the Saeima really decided something in this country - and that means that if the people were given some voting rights at all and someone would count on them - then here, in the Saeima, you should have come and tell us why this vaccination office is necessary, how you have so far come, what functions it will perform, how it will be distributed. You would give reasons for all this. But you're not doing anything. Moreover, to your report, which you have decided there, which you want to approve, you have not even put in place the secret report, which is now known, on the basis of which you are making this vaccination office, which is simply a disaster. When reading the report, the question arises immediately. It can be seen that it is the next phase. The current phase with which you want to cover your failure and incompetentness, because in essence - what are you doing? Why is this office needed? In short, a couple of words to make the public understand. So no one! - your government (both the Minister and the Prime Minister) is neither capable nor willing, nor meaningful, of addressing these challenges. You have this task of vaccination with each other. First of all, it was given to the Minister for Health, to whom the Minister for Health shook and said: “No, no, no, no! This is a much broader exercise." And there are indeed valid arguments that it would still be the Prime Minister's responsibility, but the Prime Minister does not want to do so either. And now the friendly shouted: “You know, let no one do it! Let's give them back to the office, let's just throw them money to act there, they'll also be responsible for all this." This is the way you have always addressed all the problems. So you don't solve them, just look for how to drop them. We're going to follow this all. And you don't even make this groundwork. If we look at this justification, it is simply unique, as the government has confirmed. Have you seen the same numbers? There's no math together, no figures at all, but you've just given 640 thousand with a light hand. Why? Without any justification. That's what you've done all the time. With those purchases and with all the rest, just fear like little children spread their eyes, try to scare the public in order to legalize their powerlessness and senselessness. Society! I invite you to follow this all! As long as you allow yourself to be like curly rams, you zipps! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U11	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U12	Thank you, honourable President. Dear colleagues, This time, the Union of Greens/Farmers will abstain from voting and will not vote in favour, as we did earlier on this order by the Cabinet of Ministers, because, as we have already mentioned, there must be a really clear justification for these decisions, why they are made in this way and no different way. Very many colleagues mentioned above the misunderstandings contained in this Cabinet of Ministers order, but I would like to emphasise some. First. For example, this 72-hour-- this so-called community passport when flying to UK. We can read every day and expect results with some horror, whether the new Covid-19 type has appeared in Latvia, which is much more stickier than the previous one and which comes from England or not. And now we say that there is no longer a need for a test on arrivals from the UK. I can take my passport to Latvia for 72 hours, as Mrs Stepanenko said, for a 24-hour meeting or even two days to England, meet people and return with the same. Colleagues! Is that what we are calling on society? The other thing. Colleagues also touched a little on holidays, especially from the first to the fourth class. I have the feeling that no one really has children from the first to the fourth grade in a coalition or government. I have one in the first class and one in the fourth class, and I see very well not only in our school but in all schools the teacher’s readiness for distance learning. We kept children from December last year, before Christmas, during this long holiday, and now we tell them that there will be e-learning, technical provision, teacher training. How will teacher Zoom be able to gather first-class students together on another platform? Where were we all this time? What can parents do? How do parents plan their lives? Now we are saying that we have extended a few more weeks. What will happen after the seventh date? We also wrote in spring a letter to Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš, including President Egils Levit, about the need for clear criteria - when and under what circumstances this state of emergency is being extended and when it is being ended. Whether it's a number of hospitalised or a number of sick or a number of healthy people who have recovered, but - clear criteria. And parents, parents of young children who work, who also have economic problems at the moment, very many now have to take a certain amount of leave. They can't go to work - those who still have a job that hasn't lost it yet - to sit actually present and to be an assistant to their child as a teacher, as a second teacher. Therefore, colleagues, this time the Union of Greens/Farmers will not vote in favour, but we will abstain from voting on this draft order of the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U13	Thank you. Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U14	Hello, dear colleagues! Now it's like Shakespeare's in the ceiling -- to be or not. And also to take advantage of this exceptional situation... We can see that it's not so clear with the decisions made... And in the Cabinet of Ministers... on how we use our taxpayers' money. If we look at it... to the return flights that took place before New Year, I guess there were two of Britain, I heard it at least, and how much it cost, for example, when people were sitting at computers and collecting them on two flights... We're on board as well as the leishes. Spending 300,000 bonuses. Well, if you unite two planes, there may be... I don't know how many numbers were there, maybe 300 were there. So is it necessary to pay a thousand euros in bonuses for almost one person? If it's rude to count, let's be like normal, decent people. Of course, we need to pay for the work that has been done, but at the same time we have an institution that works and is obliged to do so. For example, a vaccination schedule was established. From March, from April, everyone knew that vaccination would be, it should be, and in summer, we had here a time of peace where we could peacefully make it. No, then we couldn't, and now suddenly, when the Minister was swapped, we have the money right away. The Cabinet gave 23 million new vaccines to buy and a huge amount goes to the office. I'm sorry, what did the officials who have this duty to do, to organise their vaccination? Work of the Ministry of Health. Well, if the Ministry of Health cannot, then let's add another Minister for Defence, Minister for Economic Affairs, Minister for Justice, where everyone is co-responsible for that process in an emergency situation. Because people want to know what happened to that vaccine? Did we buy a good vaccine or didn't we? Is the vaccine, for example, the same Pfizer firm vaccine that we bought from the European Union, the same for Latvia as they sent to the United States? Is it the same, with the same code, or is it different? That's... as we also see when it was in its research, that there were only 70 percent of the vaccine to be supported as a composite, a when production started, then only 50 percent. This means that only 50 to 50 is compatible with the vaccine. And if it's still a double standard - one country has one standard, the other country has another standard, now that it doesn't come up with something... So there are people, even doctors, who do not want to vaccinate. Because it's not sure what happened? Please tell your people what happened to the vaccine we bought. From November, our Cabinet reported that we have booked the vaccine from four companies, now it turns out that vaccination is only starting and it is already running out. No vaccines, all used. Now we expect and we do not know when those vaccines will be brought to Latvia next time. Well, it's not in any frame. We need to work. Therefore, the Social Democratic Party Group will not vote in favour of this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U15	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U16	Hello, dear colleagues! I heard in some of you uncertainty about the restrictions on travel. So in short. Latvian citizens as such cannot be denied entry, entry, return to their country of origin in Latvia, and this means that if a person is able to get to Latvia himself, no one will be allowed to enter Latvia at the border, everyone is welcome at home, only to meet all the requirements for entry. That's one. The other is about the tests. If the test has not been carried out, then it cannot... The plane is where you can't get it, whether the international bus is where you can't get it and come to Latvia. If you try to get yourself, then you can get with the car, only take into account, of course, all the requirements and laws laid down in the epidemiological question... For the purposes of this Regulation, the On the other hand, if this test is carried out in Latvia, go to the United Kingdom and return. It can be said that no one has removed self-insulation requirements either. In this case, when returning to Latvia, a person still has to comply with them, and after returning he has to be isolated, and monitor his health. Therefore, if any symptoms occur, the test should be repeated and checked for the presence of the disease. In my opinion, the logical arrangements for international travel and, if there are any further uncertainties regarding travel, I would be happy to ask the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U17	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U18	Hello, high-ranking head of the sitting! Colleagues! Looking at the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, today, and in the past, there are a number of questions that have not been answered, which our colleague, Mr Bergmanis, has also asked in the Commission. We also spoke in advance in the political group about all the unclear issues. Don't leave the feeling that some kind of infection has been embodied in our own government at a time when this infection breaks out in Latvia. One minister has already lost his position as a government minister. It seems that this infection continues to flutter in the government's house, and in no way even these signals, which come from the opposition, are heard. If the opposition initially supported a series of these proposals to reduce the pandemic, there are now some areas where we see that government action is absolutely inexplicable, late and totally unprepared, for example, to go to a children's school. It is only at the moment that we start thinking about distance learning, and it is no secret that at the moment, I think, a number of educational institutions are absolutely not prepared for this. This dialogue with culture... with the field of education and local authorities at this point in time. I think that the spread of this virus in the government is currently affecting at least three ministers - Mrs Šuplinsk, it is Mrs Petraviča, and it is of course also Mr Bordan - who are subject to control, regardless of how actively the public space is expressed and demonstrated to each other that something is wrong - in the area of health or in homes or in prisons. The overall work of the government and the decisions taken show only that the government or the ministers concerned are not dealing with the situation at all. Once again, I call for the involvement of the municipalities as much as possible in overcoming this crisis, which are still at such a distance and are not, in substance, involved in these issues. The government does not manage it by its own means. That is clear. We see this from day-to-day statistics, and we also see it from the public's point of view of all the restrictions imposed. These restrictions, by their nature, are currently on procurement... on goods that can be purchased in stores... We see clearly - the situation at supermarkets has still not changed - there are many cars there and people are choosing other ways to get to these goods. That is also understandable in a way. At present, especially in the field of education, social affairs and justice, I think there is a very serious crisis situation and the responsible ministers are not meeting their responsibilities. This includes not listening to the opposition's arguments - which we are making in the committee responsible, as expressed by Mr Bergmanis's commission - that all these issues are simply pushed through at a high speed without going into detail. Once again, I call on the representatives of the ruling coalition to listen to and see why the opposition no longer supports new and new restrictions, because quite simply, colleagues, from the reality of the current situation of the population in the regions, families that send children to school or whose children simply have been killed for weeks at home... This situation, colleagues, is very critical. I call for these issues to begin to be dealt with in substance. Today I have this order from the Cabinet of Ministers... I will not support the announcement of the emergency situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U19	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U20	Hello, colleagues! I think that, in this situation, the government would need more psychotherapist services, because the decisions that are made are really, really, very chaotic and incomprehensible. And they have been incomprehensible since last year - the beginning of the second wave of the pandemic. The government and everyone in Latvia in general had the opportunity to prepare for the second wave for five months and to do something. What I see is that nothing has been done. You are now setting the salary for a project to monitor the vaccination process, where, for example, the project manager has 4900, the process coordinator - 4247, the logistics coordinator - 4247 and so on, and so on. Very big wages. I think if you were to recruit one psychotherapist to a government that would advise these ministers, then that would result in a much better result. And it's just that... It is not even sarcasm, it is quite serious, because you need to understand what human psychology is. People look at this mess, at these pointless actions, and they no longer believe. They do not believe the Latvian Government, they do not believe that we can do something right. That's why... like us and I personally... How can I support such decisions, which are not already believed by the majority of the people? The virus. It was quite clear that during the winter, when the cold period started, infections would spread and that the virus would be more... will become more ill. It was... it has always been that in winter everyone suffers from respiratory diseases. The fact that the virus will disappear is clear, because spring will come - soon will be spring, days will be longer - and therefore do not think to write that you have done something in spring. The virus will disappear, not because the government works, but because the sun will shine more. And what was the government supposed to do? For example, the government needs to think about those who are now staying at home and unable to work. I can cut my hair because men can cut, pick up the machine and cut off. I want to see what the ladies will do and how they will look soon. But it's even worse... Shtrunt, how will our Saeima look, but what will those hairdressers do? I know that I have certain examples where, for example, the hairdresser has received EUR 130 (or is rightly called there) for not being allowed to work, for not being allowed by the government to work. Can a person with a family survive from 130 euros, buy food and pay... Is that so? Has the government thought about yet many other businesses that have been closed and where there is no income, and where a bank like Altum, a bank that is a development bank, which is a state-owned bank, answers that - no, we can release interest to you, but we will not release the principal amount. You pay no matter, it's nothing that you're suffering, it's nothing that the government said you should be hard, but you have to pay a basic amount. Get where you want. Well, that's total nonsense! That's one. Second. On schools. Well, as you imagine - parent, for example, works at home in remote mode. Father goes to work, does work outside, and mother at home in remote mode along with two children. Is it possible to do a job and at the same time to teach first- or second- or third-class children as they learn? That is impossible, it is simply impossible! I know clearly, my moms complained to me. I call in the evening at 50, and she says, “You know, I don’t have time to talk, I have to do my job.” This means that she works in two shifts: from day to day as a teacher to school educators and during the evening to his direct job. Well, this... This is at all, well, full of meanings. We also talked about travel. In Latvia, citizens of the Republic of Latvia could not at all demand that they need a test. Citizens of the Republic of Latvia must be admitted to Latvia. You could have made it compulsory to go to a hotel paid by the state. You could have requested that the state make all the necessary analyses for free, rather than forcing the citizens of the Republic of Latvia to find a place where the analyses could be made, get some more paper if possible. Who, for example, will understand... if he comes from the Arab Emirates, where will the non-English paper be published? Nobody's gonna know what it's written in there! Therefore, once again, I believe that the Saeima cannot vote on such an order by the Cabinet of Ministers. We cannot support this stupidity. Let the government work. Now it's been a whole year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U21	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U22	Yeah, thank you. I would also like to add to what Mr Krauze said about tests. I would really like to understand how the State Border Guard could decipher all these tests, because, as Mr Krauzze rightly said, these tests can come from different countries. And then it is, I understand, necessary notarised translation perhaps or how. As it was meant - absolutely not clear. This, of course, makes it difficult for our citizens of Latvia to return to the Republic of Latvia. Also, in addition to parental rights, I would like to point out that several parental organisations have also applied to the Cabinet of Ministers on several occasions... the request to provide support to parents who help their young pupils in their training. This requirement occurred already in the summer, when parents took a look at the situation after the first wave and found that there was a real need for more support when parents helped children from first to fourth grade. At present, we can see that there are no chics or gems from some kind of parental support. Yeah, you kept those kids out of the way, and then Monday, please! It does not matter whether your parents have taken all their leave or not. How they have planned their work and how an employer will endure it - you don't care at all. We are not hearing about any support mechanism at the moment. It is a great shame for the government. With the support of our fellow Members, we had to start! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U23	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U24	Well, society and colleagues! What... for what I guarantee, I absolutely assure you that all the fine ladies and not only the ladies have a manicure, a pedicure, and a hairstyle, everything that comes. We're just pretending here. And maybe you have to stop pretending, let people work. It is clear that these restrictions do not give anything, nor do they. As people start working, we will need new restrictions again. A very different problem... Rather than simply thinking about how to steal brutally, we should take action and deal with this problem. Otherwise, it will never end. And I hope that the mayor of patience will vanish. I really hope very much... well, I appeal to you, Latvian society! You see that your children are not schooled, you see all that event, you see that you are washing your brain with a propaganda machine, and everything else. I have heard a lot of us say that you just want to work so that you can pay your bills. Well, then you have to stop shinning once! Well, what's that kind of a ginger's people? You have to get the courage to change this whole thing, dear people! The courage to go even to court to demand that everything be cancelled! Don't be afraid, call the referendums - no matter! - but to act, not to expect a miracle. There won't be a miracle. They're good at all this. They wolves as long as they can pull out. They are not interested in the collapse of the Latvian economy and everything else is only worse and worse. They are interested in this state - this state of brutal stealing and not doing anything. They will wolves as much as possible and would be happy if they could pull them off by the end of the year. We gotta get up, people, now!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U25	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U26	Yes, right away, we will have a vote on what the government is proposing - to confirm its decisions. And I would like to hear an explanation from Members or from the rapporteur about this vaccination office. I have not heard of this from anyone who will then be the head of the vaccination project and who will be the coordinator of the vaccination process, both of whom receive wages worthy of the Prime Minister. If someone tries to tell me that, you see, the project manager is for the whole project, but the coordinator of the vaccination process is for the vaccination process itself, then I will have an immediate logical question about the next one: who then has a logistics coordinator, because this will in essence coordinate the whole vaccination process. Each of them is provided with wages worthy of the Prime Minister. Come, please, my fellow Members, those who are going to vote for it - if it is not just another attempt to make someone warm and to get themselves out of responsibility and do nothing - tell me how you understand what you have now offered. What then are all these functions specifically? And also explain... I look, let's say, there's the office's administrator and also the office's secretary. If we look, let us say, at this list of posts that you have approved, which the government has approved and granted funding, there is both an information technology coordinator and a communication coordinator, both of whom have equal salaries. But if we look at what the required funding is, which you have approved for each of them, this funding is twofold different from that of the same salary: one has twice as much as the other. And it is the necessary funding for 2021, which is for each heading. Go on. If we look further, there is a communication manager assistant who has a salary twice as low as that of the communication coordinator, but the funding he needs is one and a half times higher. Come and tell us what you will do there and what you will pay for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U27	Name to Member Ilmar Duritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U28	The President of the sitting is very respectful. High honourable Members! Yeah, I just wanted to, maybe for a moment... outline also the questions asked by Mr. Zarins. Firstly, we need to understand, my fellow Members, that fast and comprehensive vaccination, well, that is... In principle, it is a unprecedented event in any country, including Latvia. The calculations show that if we provide vaccination with even an intensity of 50,000 captives per week, then the vaccination process can continue very, very long and at the level of the so-called crowd immunity of at least 60 per cent, we can also fail to achieve this year. And that means that the restrictions, which are going very hard at the moment, as you say yourself, by our economy and by all sectors, will have to be maintained for a long time. It will certainly not create security for our citizens, it will certainly not create, well, a success story about our country as a country that... as it will come out of the cord crisis. The calculations show that in order for us to achieve something at the end of the summer, let us say, the immunity of the crowd, which could be at least these 60 percent, we must be vaccinated on the condition that we have vaccines available and registered (and the vaccines ordered by the country are very, very much, so we have a good reserve), 100, even 150... inhabitants a week. This amount requires very much concentration, so the government's decision to set up a vaccination office is, in my opinion, very correct and well-founded. The Bureau will be based on three groups of such coordinators if this is the case. One of these is the main group that will coordinate the vaccination process itself: where, who will vaccinate, where, to what extent, these vaccination offices will be set up, what will be cooperation between family doctor practices, private vaccination practices and so on. So, who will vaccinate and so on. The second block, therefore, is about informing the population, including information about the effects of the vaccine, about the side effects of the vaccine, calling the population to vaccinate, because, as we can see, its initial experience has shown that the population is rather timid... at first wish to receive the vaccine. Vaccination will be voluntary and voluntary. And the third group is this support for every citizen so that he can apply for vaccination as soon as possible and also get information about the time and place where his vaccination will take place. It's an information technology issue... essentially the creation of a platform, so that this line is manageable and that this line is properly comfortable and understandable. If someone falls out of the vaccination line, for example, by not wishing or thinking about allowing the next person who wishes to receive the vaccine to be part of this line in a flexible manner. That is why the work of the vaccination office will be extremely intensive and extremely complex in the near future, I would like to say. Wages - just in brief. Colleagues, I invite you to take a look at the research that shows what the average wages are in general in the private sector in Latvia. If we want to attract the best specialists and be competitive with the private sector, then the remuneration in the private sector in the relevant monthly salary groups is higher than in the public administration, which is why this remuneration was also slightly higher. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U29	Thank you. Colleagues, it's time for a break. The debate can continue after a break. Registration of members. It's been a success. Adjournment at the sitting until 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U30	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - consideration of the draft decision. The draft decision “On the Cabinet of Ministers Order of 14 January 2021 No. Order Nos 19 and 15 January 2021 24 amending Order of 6 November 2020 No. 655 ‘Proclaiming an emergency’. We are continuing the debate. Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U31	Hello, dear colleagues! I would like to draw attention to what Mr Valaiņa said in relation to... and what Mr Krauze said about restrictions on education. First of all, what should be understood? Well, my fellow Members, there is no other key for us to go out of this crisis and reduce the incidence of the disease than, in parallel with the (happily, what has already been started) vaccination process, there is still a reduction in contacts. And I mean not only the so-called home or shop visits, but also yes, the distance learning - just as long as it is necessary, and precisely so long as it is safe for children, teachers, parents and grandparents to go home after hours. Is this easy for teachers? No, because this is a new situation. There are also different changes in teaching approach and content. There is a lot of unknown. Yes, it is difficult, but here I see that both financial and information support from the Ministry of Education and Science is being provided to the extent apparently possible at the moment. Is distance learning easy for parents? ( Mr. Krauze made this point very clear, mentioning the parents of the first grade.) And I'd like to say, not at all, no! I say this with full responsibility, because my daughter has been studying at a distance since last March (with a small face-to-face effect in September and October), and my two first-class students have already experienced this distance learning at home in the first semester... and then continues - obviously until February or as long as necessary. It is a gigantic work of parents in cooperation with teachers - continuously motivate children, support them until late evenings to explain, because they have to work on their own. Four times a day you have to prepare yourself for food, help you in your training, and do something in your household. It's hard, but it's workable. Is it easy for children to learn? No, no, no, no! And especially great difficulties... Let's see it next year... will have been especially for the younger pupils - in terms of their acquired knowledge, and for the elders - in terms of their psycho-emotional status. But I am absolutely absolutely absolutely absolutely. - reject any criticism that the GOI would be wrong in this regard. Was it possible to predict precisely such a scenario? Who of you, by putting your hand on the heart, can claim this? Does ISM not provide support? Give me that, colleagues. This is the rare ministry in the community... IZM has prepared both algorithm models for possible school activities during the community and has organised numerous online seminars; it disseminates materials to both teachers and – especially important – parents. It can always be said that it can be different and it can be better. And I even need to say that. But at the moment, I think it is not right to complain about support from ISM. It is also important for every parent to keep in mind that it is now... and we decided for ourselves that there were opportunities... If, because of the conditions connected with the community, the child cannot attend kindergarten or educational institution or if this remote process is established in the educational institution, the parents of the child, if the child is under 10 years of age, have the opportunity to receive this disease... assistance allowance. And here I have to add that, despite Mrs. Petraviča... In the debate in the Saeima, when I argued that this should not be a one-off event... But you've understood your mistake... And now their support will also be possible within the whole semester, as long as it takes and how many times it takes. And parents have to use it because... As far as I am aware, some 380 people have now used it alone. Here is one practical, realistic example of support for parents in the context of distance learning. But... Colleagues, once again I call - from the heart - to remember that... As every one of us, I look forward to the day when children are going back to school: they will learn in person, but this cannot be done quickly if we continue this embarrassment and climbing with a reduction in strict restrictions and some exceptions in one area or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U32	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U33	Hello, dear colleagues! Once again in the current debate, we are convinced that we have not learned to draw the right conclusions over the year in a rather difficult situation in which we have all reached. We can talk about various restrictions, relaxing restrictions, or making them even harder and tougher. If there's no system there, there's no result either. But I'd like to touch on one thing, and that's exactly medicine. We're talking about the number of beds. Today it is on the critical border, actually above the critical border, because all the time it was about the fact that a thousand beds in hospitals for co-morbids have that critical limit, but today their number is much higher... not much bigger, but bigger. Can extend the number of beds. Can you? You can! Could attract private... private medical centres; you can do what you plan to do, Mr Pabrik, who is going to buy a mobile hospital. But the second question arises: who will work in these places, because there are situations where doctors say that, from tomorrow, your department will work, has re-qualified as a communal unit. Staff ready for this? It is not ready, however, because working with co-morbids requires special knowledge, special skills, and special qualifications. Thus, the second question is how to prepare medical staff for specialised work, work under special conditions, - work with co-morbids (according to special medical methods, special medical technologies and techniques, and so on). And the third question. For vaccination. Today one of the speakers said very harshly that, here, the crowd will hardly be fully vaccinated by the end of the year. A vaccination or vaccination office has been established. A very good measure, but what's next? Is vaccination sufficient to ensure mass vaccination? Are centres and staff trained for this? Currently created... only the first step - very late, very late. But what's next? What's the pace? What will be the vaccines we are talking about? And at what pace is this process ensured? And so the main impression of all our debates today is that we have not learned to work on the system, we have not learned to draw conclusions from what has already been done and from what results have been achieved and at what cost. It seems to me that the existing document, which is open to our attention today, does not answer that question. I think we should, however, once abandon that stupid system, that we are debating what has already been decided. In fact, the government shifts responsibility for its actions to the Saeima without any improvements and amendments or... whether by listening to suggestions from Members of the Saeima. It is an empty job - one that is very small, I would even say - below the useful factor of zero. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U34	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U35	Yeah. Thank you. Colleagues! It has to be acknowledged that, already on 8 April, the opposition and personally I turned to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit with a detailed request to open a discussion and discuss the need for horizontal provision by all the public authorities involved, and also by the Prime Minister... effective cooperation to ensure... the possible consequences of the crisis... The meetings were held at the Public Expenditure and Audit Commission for three consecutive days – on 15, 22 and 29 April. Representatives of all the ministries involved participated in the work, including the head of the Prime Minister's Bureau... - as the case may be, the representative... Parliamentary Secretary of the Prime Minister Evik Siliņa. One of the most important questions that was asked... on the need... Comprehensive and targeted inter-institutional cooperation and coordination to effectively combat the pandemic. Where did we come from? We're... as a result, we only got the plan in October. What have we achieved because of the lack of non-professional communication, inpreparedness and clearly understandable horizontal cooperation? The second wave of the pandemic... just with our head practically we are already below the water level... ensured... caused a dramatic increase in morbidity... and thoughtless action... We are killed by people in nursing homes. We have problems with beds. We now need to set up a new immunisation council. But... Dear colleagues, for information: by the way, there are 147 public officials in the Ministry of Health, and the Ministry of Health has several departments... Title: Department of European Affairs and International Cooperation, Department of Communication, Department of Audit, Department of Personnel and Document Management, Department of Health promotion and addiction prevention, Department of Environment Health, Department of Health, Department of Health, Department of Health, Department of Health, Department of Integrated Health Care, Department of Pharmaceuticals, Department of Sectoral Budget Planning, Investment and Monitoring of European Union Funds, Department of Implementation of European Union Funds, Department of Planning, Evaluation and Monitoring of European Union Funds, Department of Capital Company and Investment Monitoring, Accounting Department, Unit of Procurement, Information Technology, Department of Property and Technical Security, Department of Project Management, Department of Public Health Promotion Projects, which, among other things, operates around 10 state officials, Department of Participation of Medicines in Regional Work Project, Department of Further Education, Legal Affairs, Department of Policy Coordination, Department of Human Resources Development. And tell me, please, if all these departments, departments and people are in place in the Ministry of Health, what have they done since 8 April, when everyone needed, in particular by cooperating, to set up all these mechanisms to prevent the health situation in the sub-crisis? I think what we're doing right now... we really see unsystematic and unthought-out action, perhaps even chaotic, and no concrete conclusions have probably really been made. And it's very sad... Consider that.... and blaming people that they do not want to vaccinate or graft, even though the real reasons for people's rejection and sceptical attitude to all the events are due to the government's inability to organise its own work, the inability to provide an understandable, clear communication with society and the inability to develop quality, understandable for all at first and in a timely manner... and to inform the public accordingly. The result is that the public do not trust the government and do not trust the measures proposed by the government. And it is only the responsibility of the members of the government themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U36	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U37	President of the Saeima! Colleagues! Mr. Durish mentioned a moment ago... something about the success story. I would like to say that, unfortunately, we in Latvia... Unfortunately, success stories... we will be able to read about success stories in other countries - in other countries of the European Union and in countries outside the European Union - but not in Latvia. And with regard to what Mrs Muižniece said. Could such a development scenario be envisaged in the field of education? It was absolutely possible to predict it. And in the area of health, colleagues... in a situation where everyone is clearly aware that at the time when the vaccine will be... The vaccine is the only way to fight these causes - the causes of this pandemic... That vaccination will have to be carried out on a large part of Latvia's population - could it not have been anticipated? Is this an extraordinary question and there was a need for scientific expertise in order to do so? Regarding the purchase of vaccines... That's what we're going to talk about... to other questions... but, colleagues, all these issues were and are predictable. And now... Or when you announced another state of emergency, some illusions about this state of emergency being... Stop? I don't think so. Also in the field of education... When they announced these holidays before Christmas, what illusion was there that the situation would change significantly after Christmas? I don't think so. Colleagues, there is therefore a need for coordinated action. And also for the establishment of this vaccination bureau... Planning regions - why are they not already involved? There are a number of institutions, such as the Trans-European Coordination Centre. What are they doing today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U38	Name to Member Armand Kraus for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U39	Yeah. Thank you, Madam President. I would like to draw attention to such a case in relation to this vaccination office. You know, set up an office at a time when hundreds of officials are working in the Ministry of Health, when they have institutions... And the services, what... Together, I think... if I know the right number, there are more than a thousand people - officials, specialists at different levels - who could actually do this job and create a new office. With so big salaries - it is totally unacceptable! This shows that throughout this system either there is no wish or indeed no level of specialists who could do such work and coordinate this vaccination process. But to reflect on what Douris said, I would like to say, colleagues, we should not be afraid of the people: if you do so, then we will all walk in the mask next year, then there will be limitations, then we will not get immunity from the crowd! Don't be scared. Good examples are needed to show and motivate, not to frighten. I say again that it seems to me that, in this case, not only a government psychotherapist needs, but also colleagues of our Saeima coalition so that they know how to work properly with people, and also put their minds in order to motivate rather than frighten themselves. I say again - stop scaring the people of Latvia with what will happen if you do not receive a vaccine! Let's go! There are many... There are thousands, there are tens of thousands of people who want to be vaccinated, and those who do not want - these are some tens of thousands or some hundred thousand - well, we don't scare them! We work with those who want and ensure that they are able to vaccinate. All this reminds me of the fact that in Soviet times when everyone was scared and, if someone said something a little differently, he could be put in prison, sent to Gulag or something else... Now it starts to remind me very much in time. That's why I say we don't be afraid, but we motivate our Latvian people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U40	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U41	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to thank my fellow Members for the magnificent debate. Many questions were asked and answered. Thank you to the Parliamentary Secretaries and Members who responded. If there are any uncertainties, please contact the ministries responsible and get all the information you need. Thank you, colleagues, again. I call on you to support the draft decision drawn up by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U42	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On Cabinet of Ministers Order of 14 January 2021 No. Order Nos 19 and 15 January 2021 24 amending Order of 6 November 2020 No. 655 “Advertising the Emergency”! Please, let's vote! For - 54, for - 5, for - 24. Decision adopted. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision “On approval of the Saeima Member Krista Baumane as a member of the National Group of the Interparliamentary Union of Latvia”. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the approval of the Saeima Member Krista Baumane as a member of the National Group of the Interparliamentary Union of Latvia”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On the approval of the Saeima Member Aigars Bikše as a member of the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of the Saeima Member Aigars Bikše as a member of the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Reports by the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that Dzintars, Latkovska, Muižnieces, Zalīte-Gross, Jansons and Možvillo's draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child" be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ On” applied to speak Member Raivis Dzintars.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U43	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Both draft laws - “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child” and “Amendment to the Law on Invalidity” - are linked and provide for an extension of the honorary family programme. At present, families with three or more children are included in the scope of honorary family status, but the proposed change would also include families with children with disabilities. It would therefore be essential to extend the range of families that could benefit from all the support that families now receive. For example, there are significant discounts for inter-urban public transport. I would remind you that the disabled child can already use intercity public transport free of charge, as well as his/her escort. However, by adopting these amendments, a 50 percent discount would also be provided for the parents of the child when they use public transport without the presence of the child, as well as a 90 percent discount for the child's brother or sister. Knowing that care for even one child with special needs can be equivalent to care for three children, at the beginning of the development of the honorary family concept such an extension was intended as the next stage. Given that more than a thousand families with special children are already included as large families in the scope of the honorary family, the adoption of these amendments would provide additional support for some seven thousand more families. The extension of this programme as a time-limit until 31 December of this year is yet coordinated with the Ministry of Finance, but our aim, of course, is to introduce these changes as a permanent solution. Amendments to the law have been developed by the Centre for Demographic Affairs. They have been signed and are being requested to be referred to the committee responsible by the representatives of the four parliamentary groups - the National Alliance Groups, the Young Unity of the Group, the New Conservative Group and the CPV LV of the Group. Colleagues! Although it is now proposed to refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Children’s Rights” to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, please refer the two draft laws as related to the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs. Thank you. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U44	Mr. Aldis Gobzems has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U45	To avoid embarrassing society and colleagues, I will explain: I am not against this bill, I am against a two-pronged policy, and in the context of this law...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U46	Mr Gobzem, you have applied to speak against a draft law being passed on to the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U47	But listen to what I'm gonna say.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U48	Will you speak against a draft law being passed on to the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U49	Yeah, I'll talk. Listen, you'll understand.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U50	Thus, Member Gobzem will speak against a draft law being passed on to the commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U51	I have applied to speak against the bill, because I'm shocked by duality. I'm reading the newspapers, I'm reading the press in which we see today, by the way, that over the last hundred years... The current record has been reached again in Latvia – the smallest children are born with us. And that's why... the patos, which is sounding from Raivjs Dzintars, from the National Association, which has always stood up for demographics and for children... I want to say that it is the National Association, it is Raivis Dzintars... that it is this power, which is, in fact, almost always, in power, in all coalitions, whatever coalition it is - Unity or any other coalition - that is most directly responsible for the consequences... all that has happened over the years in connection with the demographic situation. The demographic situation is that we are recorders in negative terms. That is why I believe that the same kind of appeal - it is a duality. We should support all children much more. This draft law, of course, does not regulate... does not address the question of how to change dramatic, negative demographic indicators, which are due to existing anti-theft and anti-popular policies in general. This is a policy that people leave Latvia, relocate business, transfer bank accounts and everything else. This is directly the responsibility of the National Association. And that is why I want to remind, especially, older people, who like the same kind of speech, such beautiful talk about how children are protected, of what our statistics are and that these indicators depend on what has been in power for all these many years and what is in power for today. I would call for such draft laws to be submitted for all children. I would call for draft laws to support children - draft laws that have been promised before the elections - so that benefits are in the order of hundreds of euros (and so on), at least to reach the level of Estonia, and not to talk about about nine thousand people in a self-righteous and double fashion. This will not change the demographic situation in Latvia. And you... Ravi Dzintar, that's your most direct responsibility. Your responsibility and the result of your work are “excellent” negative demographic indicators in Latvia. It is your false patriotism policy that causes the extinction of Latvians, in my view. And that's my deep conviction. It is your organization that has achieved a decrease in the number of Latvians in Latvia, because you do not support all citizens of our country. You support a coalition against our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U52	So one Member has spoken about passing a draft law on to the Commission, one Member has spoken against transferring a draft law to the Commission. There is a proposal to refer the draft law to the Social and Labour Commission. So we will be voting in favour of handing over the draft law to the Social and Labour Commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child” to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the Member Dzintars, Latkovska, Muižnieces, Možvillo, Zalīte-Gross and Jansons be referred to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that he is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Go on. Transfer of draft law to commissions and first reading. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the recognition of John Martin Talley as a citizen of Latvia” presented by the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Public Alignity be referred to the Commission for Citizenship, Migration and Public Alignity, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ‘ Andrey Judin, a Member, has signed up to speak about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U53	Hello, colleagues! The Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity is directing a debate at the Saeima on the draft law “On the recognition of John Martin Talley as a citizen of Latvia”. John Martin Talley is a U.S. citizen. Since 1995 he has resided in Latvia, founded a family, and is now bringing up a son - a citizen of Latvia. He has received Latvian... the permanent residence permit. John Martin Tallij has created one of the largest telecommunications equipment and equipment manufacturing companies in Latvia – SIA Micronet, which exports its products to many countries in the world. In addition to its main activities, the company is actively involved in charity by making extensive donations to the Children’s Hospital Fund, University of Latvia, Latvian Technical University and other educational institutions of Latvia. In support of research education and other projects, the company has contributed a total of at least EUR 5 million in recent years. John Martin Tallij has provided support to the Oncology Department of Children's Clinical University Hospital, established the Latvian Children's Oncology Foundation. In 2017, John Martin Tallie was awarded the Cross of Recognition for his contribution to meganym and was appointed Commander of the Cross of Recognition for the benefit of Latvia. Several well-known persons have expressed their support for the applicant’s desire to acquire Latvian citizenship. The Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity has prepared this draft law on the recognition of Tallinn as a citizen of Latvia, assessing the importance of his individual situation, activities and contributions to the state and society, as well as taking into account the fact that due to unforeseen cases of the existing regulatory framework he has insurmountable difficulties to acquire Latvian citizenship, however, acquisition of citizenship meets not only the objectives of the Citizenship Law, but also important interests of the state. So our commission is asking that the draft law be passed only on to the Commission for Citizenship, Migration and Public Reunion, making it a responsible commission. The Commission is asking to direct the examination of draft laws at the first reading of the Saeima without re-examination by the committee responsible. And we ask for this draft law to be declared urgent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U54	Thank you. Are Members opposed to handing over the draft law to the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity, making it a responsible commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. And we start to examine the draft law at first reading. on behalf of the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity - Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U55	Colleagues, I presented you with information. The question was discussed at several meetings of the Commission. And I am very pleased that all of our members of the Commission have supported the progress of the bill. The decision was adopted unanimously. Please support the draft law at first reading and please examine it as a matter of urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U56	So, first of all, the determination of urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the bill “On the recognition of John Martin Talley as a citizen of Latvia”! Please, let's vote! On - 83, against - no, abstaining - 2. The draft law has been declared urgent. And the Commission is asking for support at first reading. The Members in the debate have not applied. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading draft law on the recognition of John Martin Talley as a citizen of Latvia! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U57	Colleagues! Given that the draft law has been approved at first reading by 91 votes, and given that in the Commission we have supported the draft law without reservations, on behalf of the Commission, I call for the draft law to be examined today at second reading as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U58	Thank you. Please enable a section on the procedure. Are Members opposed to the second reading of the draft law without re-examination by the committee responsible? There is no objection by Members. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On the recognition of John Martin Talley as a Latvian citizen” in the second, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Congratulations to Latvian citizen John Martin Talley! Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act’. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the draft law on amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax, tabled by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission be referred to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Let us start with this at first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Lubova Švecova.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U59	Yeah, thank you. We are working on Law No. 905/Lp13. Why are amendments to the Value Added Tax Act necessary? The aim of this draft law is to clarify the rules on value added tax in order to simplify the application of value added tax, reduce the administrative burden and costs and align the VAT rules with those adopted under other legislation. The aim is to simplify the procedure for notification of decisions of the State Revenue Service and communication of value added tax payers with the State Revenue Service. Pursuant to Article 66 of the Law on Value Added Tax, the State Revenue Service may notify a decision on registration of a person in the Register of VAT payers of the State Revenue Service in three ways – depending on the manner of notification of the decision selected in the application for registration of the person. The SRS shall notify such decision on the SRS website on the Internet, the SRS Electronic declaration system, if the person is a user of this system, or by post. The notification of the decision also depends on the moment when the person becomes a registered VAT payer, and consequently the obligations and rights laid down by the Value Added Tax Act apply to him: the day after the decision is notified on the SRS website, the second working day after the decision is inserted into EDS, the seventh day after the decision is passed on to the post office. Consequently, the main purpose of this draft law is to ensure a modern exchange of information on the value added tax payer. These amendments also provide for harmonisation respectively... regulatory... deposit system... The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has examined this bill and is asking Members of the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U60	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax at first reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U61	I don't see, I... Yeah, five days, that's 26 January... Year 2021
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U62	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is therefore 26 January this year. Draft law ‘Amendments to civil law’. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Law” presented by the Legal Commission be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Let us start with this at first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U63	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues. This draft law prepared by the Legal Commission “Amendments to Civil Law”, which in essence has been drafted by a special working group of the Ministry of Justice, provides for improvement of the legal framework of joint ownership. The need for amendments has been updated by the Subcommittee on Judicial Policy under the auspices of the Legal Commission. At the first meeting at the end of 2019, we as a sub-commission responded to cases in the media about possible unfair practices of lawyers and legal persons when buying property's alleged shares from real estate auctions and other joint-owners through the termination of the joint ownership by demanding many more amounts... and, in some cases, even essentially by forcing the other joint owners to renounce their property, because the property is sold by auction, by dividing the proceeds between the joint owners... And then, on the basis of these situations, we also asked the Ministry of Justice sub-committee to prepare possible amendments to the existing regulation. Furthermore, a little later, on 17 December 2019, the Senate of the Supreme Court took a decision next to it, by which it decided to notify the Saeima, the President of the State and the Cabinet of Ministers about the deficiency in Article 1075 of the Civil Law, without providing for ways of termination of joint property which is appropriate to modern circumstances. The information provided by the Ministry of Justice also shows that as early as July this year... In June, more than 200 cases were held in the courts of Latvia, where the issue of the termination of joint ownership was addressed. As I said, this draft law has been drafted by a working group chaired by the Ministry of Justice on the basis of the decision of the Sub-Commission on Judicial Policy. The draft law provides for new legal mechanisms for resolving disputes between joint owners, including in the case of division of joint ownership. There is also a restriction on joint owners regarding their right to require the division of joint ownership without a specific basis, thus reducing the tendency to exploit the profits of the deemed share of joint ownership (Sound break.) ... the rights of persons to property and the integrity of housing. The draft law also includes a new Article 1075 of the Civil Law, which provides for two new possibilities for sharing joint ownership. The purpose of the amendments is to create mechanisms to ensure that the interests of all joint owners are balanced as far as possible, such as that it is possible for a joint owner who does not wish to remain in joint ownership to withdraw without affecting the legitimate interests and rights of the other joint owners. At the meeting of the Legal Commission on this draft law, there was extensive discussion - both on the restriction initiated by the draft law, which provides that without an important reason it is impossible to request division of joint property in court for five years, since the strengthening of ownership... Discussions also took place on issues such as the exclusion of joint owners during the distribution of joint ownership, the right of majority to request the exclusion of a joint owner and the procedure for managing the joint ownership. As a result, a number of such proposals could also be addressed in the future readings of this draft law, pending proposals in this draft law. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U64	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Civil Law". Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U65	On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for the deadline for submitting proposals to be set at 19 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U66	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 19 March this year. On the agenda - consideration of Members' requests. Requests received by Members. Members Vitalijs Orlovs, Andrejs Klementjevs, Regina Ločmele, Jānis Krišāns, Edgars Kucins, Jānis Urbanovičs, Igors Pimenovs, Arthur Rubiks, Ivans Klementjevs and Inga Goldberga have submitted a request to welfare minister Ramonas Petravičs “On the delay in introducing Covid–19 mitigation measures in social care centres”. Name for motivation to Member Vital Orlov. Mr Orlov, you have to register electronically in the system. So the name to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U67	Good afternoon, honourable fellow Members. We prepared a request from Members to welfare minister Ramonas Petravičs “On the delay with the introduction of Covid-19 measures to reduce prevalence in social care centres”. Already in October, November and December, when the SCPC reported cases found - the first transfers to social care centres appeared, which... In December, 10 percent of the sick... the total number of days... Not only did the residents of social homes suffer, but the employees also suffered. At the end of December, Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš issued a resolution asking the Ministry of Welfare, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development to draw up proposals to strengthen epidemiological control in social care centres. We prepared 11 questions to get an answer from the Ministry of Health... welfare Minister Ramon Petravič - what did Health... Ministry of Welfare from October to... and the whole summer period to wait for the second wave, because on weight cups there is not only the health of employees and residents, but also life. Next... I hope that the Members who will take part in the Commission for Petitions... I also call on the other Members who... as Social and Labour Commission... looked at this issue, follow along and participate in the meeting of the Request Commission and express their displeasure with the work of the Ministry of Welfare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U68	Thank you. The request shall be submitted to the Requesting Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda of the sitting has been examined. However, there are questions from Members that I have to inform you about. Members Zarins, Rubiks, Tutins, Kucins and Lochmele have asked “On establishment of the vaccination project office, its tasks, location and role in the structure of public administration”. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins. ( Pause) So, now it's... Now it's... So the name to the Member Ivars Zarins is to motivate the question.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U69	Colleagues! After no one in the government wanted to take responsibility for the vaccination process, no one wanted to take responsibility for it and failed to impose it on anyone, the government has been friendlyly agreed that there will now be a new body to answer for all of it and from which it will be able to claim that responsibility. Today you voted in favour of this solution, although no one was able to tell us what that office was... how will then really act, how competences will be shared, how will it be integrated into the common public administration structure, for which they will actually be paid and how much will be paid. So we've already prepared questions in order for such things to happen... and, following on from Mr Rancāns' ironic suggestion that: "Please ask the institutions, but vote on all of this from the beginning", we have already prepared and submitted such a question to Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš, because we believe that this is a question of the level of competence of the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-01-21-PT13-2184-U70	So we put this question to the Prime Minister. Members Sprūde, Stepanenko, Gobzem, Švecova, Tavars and Kazinovskis have asked “On vaccination of medical staff against Covid-19 and against vaccine exposure”. We give it to the Minister for Health to respond. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. As a result, I closed the second remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 21 January 2021.
