ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2188-U1	Dear Members, Honourable Members! The second remote sitting of the Saeima was opened on 4 February 2021. On the agenda: reports by the Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. The draft decision ‘On the declaration of a court ruling in the case of Alexey Navalya and the repression and persecution of the democratic opposition, civil society and media in the Russian Federation’. The Foreign Affairs Commission has tabled this own-initiative proposal - a draft decision. If a Member objects to the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this sitting, please apply. Please activate the section on the procedure. There is no objection by Members. Let's start by examining the submitted draft decision of the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2188-U2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Today we need to talk about Russia and its responsibility to international law, principles, human rights and fundamental freedoms, about the draft decision of the Saeima, submitted by the Foreign Affairs Commission, "On the declaration of a court ruling in the case of Alexey Navalya and the repression and persecution of the democratic opposition, civil society and the media in the Russian Federation". The instigation, detention and court decision of Navaly constitute a direct violation of international law, human rights and fundamental freedoms of an individual. Latvia and international organisations also need to respond quickly and decisively to Moscow grotesco's show on the rule of law. This statement was based on a statement adopted by the Foreign Affairs Commission on 29 January, in which the Commission called for the immediate release of Navaly and investigations into his poison and called on the Russian authorities to put an end to the persecution and repression of civil society. After the judgment has been delivered, the situation has only deteriorated, another legal line of nihilism has been crossed: ignoring the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. It was a regular Russian political model in which the Verdict of the Court was written with the Cream’s feathers. And a brief insight into the context. The protestor Alexey Navalny was arrested at Moscow airport when he arrived from Germany, where he was treated after the poisoning of Novičok in August 2020 in the Russian city of Tomsk. On the day after his return to Russia, it became known that Navalyni had been arrested for 30 days, explaining that Navalyni had violated his conditions of conditional imprisonment in 2014. On 2 February, the Moscow Court imposed sentence on Navaly in the general regime column for two years and eight months. Politically motivated and encrypted trials without rule of law in Russia are not uncommon. Yesterday's judgment against Navalnia is also far from the rule of law. It is based on a judgment which was recognised by the European Court of Human Rights in 2017 as arbitrary, politically motivated and contrary to the principles of a fair trial. The prison sentenced to Navaly is contrary to Russia's international human rights obligations, which Russia has undertaken as a member of the Council of Europe, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe and a member of the United Nations. These rules remain binding on it, no matter what reverse regulation Russia adopts. The draft communication from the Saeima, which we are looking at today, is a clear expression of position when it comes to human rights and respect for international law. We are actively opposed to what has happened in Belarus, solidarity with Belarusian civil society at a time when the regime is brutally oppressing its people. And now we are witnessing similar events in Russia. It calls for a firm response from the international community, accordingly calling on the European Union institutions to step up the European Union's response, introducing restrictive measures and calling on other Member States to respond to this rule of law testament, as demonstrated by the Kremlin. The fact that, despite a minimum of 60 degrees, there were widespread protests in Siberia shows how well they are tired of this regime. People are tired, distressed with countless false news stories that tell that it is good, but everything shows the opposite. They are tired of the reassuring stories of fictitious foreign enemies who want to attack because they remember that Russia has been in the positions of an attacker for more than 30 years. Europe must also be said that an ambitious debate on relations with Russia under the leadership of President Putin must no longer be avoided, even if it does not like it and even if it reveals our different visions and priorities. A clear position is not only urgently needed, but also indispensable, without diplomatic consent. Those Member States of the European Union that want to associate with Putin's Kremlin must also stand up for the principles and values of the European Union, as must the European Union and the European Union... This is what the European Union and the Council of Europe should do. The reaction must be consistent and reconciliation must not become an end in itself. The Russian people do not deserve to live in the bog of corruption and crime in which they have been immersed in recent decades. This type of criminal activity enlightens Putin's regime, clearly showing how far beyond the limits of reason and civilised, political standards is his behaviour. The fact that the entire opposition regime accused dissidents and critics of killing exceeds all permissible... international coexistence borders and deserves nothing but absolute condemnation from the rest of the world. While Joseph Borrell, High Representative for Foreign Affairs, is trying to talk to Russia, we must also send a message to them that we expect a strong position and a request for the release of Navalnia. Colleagues, I call for support for the parliamentary statement prepared by the Foreign Affairs Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2188-U3	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2188-U4	Dear colleagues, From the applicants to the draft decision... We can conclude that these applicants have been very well researched and very well informed about the events that are being written about in this draft decision. It is good that people are looking for information, that people are aware of events in another country. And it would also be very good if the problems that are identified in this draft decision were also put behind the ear and prevented in no way, never for our own country. In particular, I am talking about the independence of judges, because unfortunately, the various signals we also see in our public space, as well as in the rhetoric of our officials, could indicate that we are close to such a risk in some way... on the possible influence of the independence of the judiciary. In no case should we allow this, given that the draft decision-makers are trying very hard to conceal to another country... problems in that country. So please don't forget about yourself, we don't forget that, for example, at the end of last year, the majority of the Saeima voted in favour of the annulment of a judge just because his decisions had not liked anyone. We must not allow this to happen. We will work to ensure that the independence of our judiciary is not affected in any way, either by any political process or by any interests. That is one that we should definitely bear in mind in the context of this draft decision. The other thing that we should definitely take into account is that probably... maybe in a way maybe it's right for those who say that it's important for us to be principled, it's important for us to be, well, in a team with whom... in the team against whom, because we are a small, smart country, we have to understand all trends. That could be so, but the problem is that those who talk about principles and those who talk about us having to stand on a particular position are never paying for those principles. Never! If Mr. Kola or Mr. Rinkēvičs had risked their jobs with this notification... I understand that the maximum that currently threatens those people who support these statements is perhaps a ban on entry into Russia. But that doesn't bother you at all. So... If Mr. Kola paid this statement, this is his principle... or anyone who's going to talk now... I don't know - Mrs. Voika, Mrs. Baumane... If that were to pay you your mandate, the parliamentary mandate, all due respect! I would be in front of you, and I would support you with applause. But there is one nuance - all your speeches, all your speeches, all your brave positions, you don't pay you anything but pay someone else. And here we are talking about those people who Mr Rinkēvičs describes as promiscuous in his foreign debate as pros and cons. These are people who lose their jobs, who continue to lose their jobs; they are workers who have to try to find a way to feed their families. I am referring specifically to our transit sector, the “Latvian Railway”. It is enough to look at the figures: in 2018, it was found that the drop in freight was 12 percent, whereas last year it reached 45 percent. And “Latvian Railway” has started selling its tracks, because there is simply no point in transit, if it is not. And we can, of course, join different views, we can be in principle, we can be critical. But there is one thing that we will never be able to change, never in life - that is the geographical location. Our neighbour country, our neighbour country Russia is very difficult in its structure, its governance, its political interests, its positions. Undoubtedly with such a neighbour it is not easy, but Latvia's position must be... should have been much smarter in this story - much smarter, diplomatically trying to prevent Latvia from being ignored and disrespected, as well as to make sure that Mr. Rinkēvičs's foreign report on the progress made and the plans for this small section of the transit business, which, unlike all political colds, continues to climb forward in some way... That this chapter should be more worthy. Because, after this statement, it is obvious that this chapter from his foreign report, Mr Rinkēvičs, will be able to be safely removed from the outside next year. It's safe! Because Mr Rinkēvičs has not foreseen any new jobs in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for those people who have lost their jobs due to these statements. Let us be honest: there are many such people, and there will be more. And Mr. Cole has not foreseen jobs for these people either. None of these brave speakers about another country... processes in another country will never have created jobs for people who will lose their jobs due to their statements. Never! And all the more... This draft decision is expected of us; it is not a miracle. This draft decision has already been retransmitted by a number of countries and European institutions; we simply join this joint action under the title of "despite a certain politically motivated case". But in this case, we focus, of course, on one case only, we do not condemn... We do not mention all, all people who have been punished or arrested for political reasons in each country. We are only focusing on one thing, because this is the current situation, because it is needed at the moment. Who needs it, we don't know, but we run and announce it because everyone does it. Because we have to be in this group. I will not support this statement today. I won't leave either side, because both sides... Both sides are not really right - neither is the party that tries to yell and say that we condemn, we support, we support, we are against, nor the party that may have found some counter-prosperity by going into these processes. No, no. It is very important for us to remain in the interests of our country, of our people's interests, and not to try to be on one side or on the other side, but to think about our people, because when we have arranged our things, maybe then we will have time to point out that someone has a badge or open a beard, I am sorry. But in this situation, we need to look at what is happening to our country and try to take an example of how we should not do it in other countries rather than condemn it. Because, as we can see, we have not been able to change the situation in Belarus, no matter how we try. In my opinion, there were two statements from Latvia. And what did we achieve? We achieved a worsening of the situation with the Belarusian market. And the people who come to us from Belarus still do not get any support. We are not ready for it. We are only ready to write draft decisions of the Saeima, condemn and join. Let's be smart! Colleagues, I call on you not to engage at all in making such declarations and disseminating such statements. I am not voting at all today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2188-U5	Thank you. Mrs Stepanenko! I recall that Article 7 of the Code of Ethics of Members of the Saeima provides that a Member shall avoid in public statements words, gestures and other acts which may be offensive, and shall not use statements which are insulting or incompatible with the respect of the Saeima. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2188-U6	Good morning, society! Good morning, colleagues! I had thought to start my speech differently, but given that Mrs Lībiņa-Egnere had just spoken about the respect of the Saeima, I must remind you that the Saeima had respect for the public... society does not respect the Saeima. The family is the lowest rating, no respect can be given at all. But about Navaly. Draft decisions and so on... I have always been fascinated by the fact that we are so terriblely active, pointing to what is in other countries. Then apply a line of Members from a position that is ready to talk about these important foreign policy issues for Latvia, but when it comes to defending local people here in Latvia - then there is silence, then the position is silent. No one is coming up in a tributary or comes up in a remote debate, because there is nothing to say about when to protect their own. And I agree with Julia Stepanenko that to show principles when you don't risk anything, but simply earn some of your rating points in some of your imagined elites, there is in fact no heroism. All these statements, when we take on the role of a police officer and point out to other countries, have resulted in what Rinkēvičs, Mr Kola, is responsible for, that our country's economy is going down. ‘ Latvian Railways, rich company, sinks, ports are empty, and in such a spirit. Maybe we, as a small country, need to sit down and wait so hard that its police roles play the big countries with each other, because our shouting will not change anything. In fact, it will become worse for the people of our country. I do not remember when Mr. Navalny would have been interested in Latvia - about Latvian ports, about “Latvian railway”, about Latvian people, about Latvia’s economy - and would have talked about how the Latvian people are oppressed; about the fact that it is impossible for people in Latvia to live that they have to leave Latvia; about Latvian entrepreneurs that they have to leave Latvia. And that's the spirit. I don't remember any such once, no public statement. Never in his lifetime. And so the question arises as to whether this is the moment when we have to get involved, again as the first to run as such... front row. I don't think that's right. You may disagree with me, and we may have different positions, but I would like to give an example showing why this is a clear demagogic, populist act - what you want to do today. And I would set a concrete example - not a general, theoretical one, but a specific example. On January 7, 2021, at 12:31, the State Police Regional Authority of Riga issued a decision (with an appropriate number). The decision is addressed to the citizen of the Republic of Latvia Mārtiņš Eikens. I read in the decision: “At the examination of materials,” it writes the State Police, “it found that on November 18, 2020 in Riga, at the Freedom Square, at the Freedom Monument Mārtiņš Eiens... did not change location... “ And then there’s a long text. So he stood at the Freedom Monument and sang on November 18 - at the Freedom Monument on November 18! And he's fined! I quote: “Punch Mārtiņš Eeiens, the personal identification number of the persons held liable, and so and applying an administrative penalty equivalent to EUR 500.” For singing on the day of establishment of Latvia as an independent state... for singing on 18 November, at the evening, at the Freedom Monument - the person who is a citizen of the Republic of Latvia is fined 500 euros. And you talk about democracy in other countries? Really?Oh, no, no, no, This is not the only example. I have given you one concrete example. If you don't believe me, I can also name the case number. The case number is No. 15550008446420-3. I would call for human rights and people's interests to be respected... and the right to sing on the Independence Day of the Republic of Latvia at the Freedom Monument... first of all in Latvia, to complain about something that happens in other countries. And more. More recently, a few weeks ago, the internet was full of peaceful protesters sitting in the park, in the grass, with stacks in the Netherlands. I do not remember that Mr Kola or Mr Rinkēvičs would have been so courageous to condemn such police aggression against unarmed, peaceful people who simply sit in a park in the Netherlands. Why such a duality? Why is there silence about all this and there is no draft decisions of the Saeima, there is no loud statement? And I'll answer it: because of fear. Because there's fear that maybe in that Europe... that they will not receive positions in Europe after their unsuccessful political career in Latvia. That is the only reason why there is no such statement that people on the streets in the Netherlands are being sung. We can keep on talking about Latvia, also talk about other issues, about political court cases. By the way, as I do, I do not want to mention one political trial, because I have been standing close to the events that took place in Latvia during the summer of 2018, when one member of the Saeima was taken out of the Saeima building and put in a bus of a law enforcement authority. A politically motivated trial was held, saying that this person has illegally funded the party, although this person has not funded the party also legally, where it is still illegal. That person had no money to finance. I do not remember that the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia would have stood for respect of democracy in Latvia. At that time, I was glad that the representative of the opposition was strangled. But it didn't work as planned, because it turned completely on the contrary -- it gave some power to a political force that now... will be likely to undergo future real criminal proceedings. I think we have to stop being the little dog of the lap that runs first on the fence and falls on something. That's it! We must start to worry about our country. And it is principled and courageous. It is not, in principle and with courage, to make statements for which no responsibility has to be assumed - neither material nor political... Neither with his posts nor with anything! This is neither a principle nor a courage. The principle and courage is to defend the citizens of your country first and before any such decision, to consider whether such a decision defends the citizens of the Republic of Latvia, including my name Mārtiņš Eeiens, who received 500 euros for singing on the evening of 18 November at the Freedom Monument. For peaceful singing at the Freedom Monument. I call for this draft decision not to be voted on, because it is the right thing to do. The vote is not because we could not have a position for everyone (whether we are supporters or opponents of Mr Navalny), but because the parliament of the Republic of Latvia, the Saeima, has no duty to be an international police officer, because the Republic of Latvia and its parliament cannot fulfil this function. It has no such power, it has no such influence. And taking such functions can only harm us. For the Republic of Latvia, if it wants to become a rich country – a rich country, where Latvians and residents of the Republic of Latvia want to return! - should maintain neutrality, learn from Switzerland or from other rich and rich countries, because... I don't know how you do, but personally I don't want to walk in primordials and walks and I don't know if my children will have good education and whether they will not have to leave Latvia either because they are poor here. I want to live in a rich country, a prosperous country, a prosperous country, but in order to do this, a land such as Latvia must be able to maintain neutrality in relation to events abroad. If, on the other hand, it is unable to withstand this neutrality, it should do so without double dubiousness - in which case, today, it should be confirmed both for Navalia and, for example, for events in the Netherlands - that the police were faced with peaceful demonstrators protesting against these pointless restrictions imposed by the community. And then there should also be a statement - a political statement! - that the fact that the police punish the citizens of the Republic of Latvia for singing at the Freedom Monument is unacceptable in a democratic country. If we are already talking about democracy and human rights. And then I would vote on all three issues "for" if they were put on the agenda of the Saeima sitting. But since it is drawn out of context and it is detrimental to the interests of the Republic of Latvia, I will not vote. And I call on the whole community to listen to what I say: every such declaration, which has been historical, has always been either after unpopular decisions when you, the people, once again steal or when you fail to fulfil a promise made by politicians to you. Then put this here “Jews Come!” and about those occupations, and all the rest... and about problems in other countries - Somalia or where there or Russia... Well, Russia - as usual, this is the main thing, because popular to play it is. And then you can not solve the internal problems of our country. But we have to deal with our problems. And I will vote in favour of condemning other countries when Mr Navalny, too, begins to condemn the actions of our politicians - the punishment of our people for singing at the Freedom Monument. Something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2188-U7	We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2188-U8	Good morning, colleagues! In turn, we call for support for this decision... The draft decision of the Saeima, because where the state power violates its own constitution and international obligations, where people are fighting for freedom and defending their rights, we must be alongside and respond. We call for an immediate end to the persecution, intimidation and repression of political opponents, media and public activists, including members of the Russian non-governmental organisation 'Fund against Corruption', as well as other violations of human rights. Where people are not protected by their own power on the streets, they look to other countries, to the international community and await support, and await action. This announcement by the Saeima is an invitation to our colleagues in Vilnius, Tallinn, Stockholm, Bratislava, Lisbon, Athens and Budapest, to our colleagues in Brussels, an invitation to the national parliaments of the European Union not to remain silent and show a position of principle, and to delegate their foreign ministers to take the necessary decisions at European Union level. We also call on our colleagues in Biškek and Belgrade... and we call on the entire Council of Europe to respond to Russia's actions, because Russia is a member of this organisation and it is bound by the principles that are currently being violated. This is a call for our transatlantic partners to act coherently and without delay. The most powerful mechanism currently in force in both the US and the European Union must be put in place, the so-called Magnitsk law, which allows sanctions to be imposed for violations of human rights and which has been named on behalf of an alarm officer in a Russian prison. In Europe, the first such law was passed by the Baltic States and has been in force in Latvia since 2018. Since last year, that is to say 2020, this regulation has been in force throughout the European Union. And this mechanism must now be carefully activated, but without compromises. The state's power, which is ready to go against its citizens, is always vulnerable. Most often (and certainly this is the case with the Russian elite) it is vulnerable in its greed and long, desire for a luxury lifestyle that would be difficult to earn in a fair way, with honest state work. It is Aleksejs Navalija's anti-corruption fund that has created many materials about Russian authorities and their luxury lifestyle in the most proud European resorts, trips with yachts in Mediterranean ports and expensive flights on private aircraft. The latest video that has already seen 107 million people on this day in the world is about President Putin's connection with a billion worth of property on the Black Sea coast. The European Union should certainly think about how to support independent journalism in Russia and the opportunity to speak with an independent voice, first of all using the media and the Internet, of course, so that the alternative opinion can also be made available to people in need of the Kremlin's controlled media. We should invest much more in this area. When it comes to today's decision, we must say that Navalijs has to be released, as are the thousands who have been detained during the demonstrations - the other Russian citizens. And the European Union must agree on new sanctions, and it must do so without delay. My colleagues and I from Development/About! - we support the Saeima resolution, we call on our colleagues to also vote in favour, and we call on everyone in Europe to act without delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2188-U9	Name to Member Krista Bauman.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2188-U10	Dear President, Dear colleagues and everyone who looks at and listens to us! In our neighbouring Russia, opposition politician Alexey Navalny was sentenced to almost three years in prison this week because the authorities did not seem to have information about his location, which he had to inform the authorities in accordance with the previous court ruling, which was politically motivated by the European Court of Human Rights. The whole world knew that Navaline was in Germany, where he recovered after an attempt to poison him. There is even news that this was the case with the Russian President, but obviously not with the officials in charge. ‘ The judgment of Navaly means that the law does not exist in our country, and it can affect me at any time,” said one protester in the streets of Moscow in his “Panorama” story yesterday. Colleagues, what can we do? Latvia is in the European Union, which is a union of values and the rule of law. Together with Russia, we are also a member of the Council of Europe. Our main weapons are the attitude and words in which we formulate it. The next levers of influence are sanctions with our allies. Russia wants to trade with the rest of the world, and so with Europe, and to enjoy the benefits of the freedom of a democratic Europe and the world. Russian officials and oligarchs have both bank accounts and luxury property in European countries, and it is unacceptable that we, as the European Union, allow this, knowing well that money paid for them is the plunder of corruption. ‘ Sanctions are fine,” our Ambassador to the Russian Federation Maris Riekstins commented in LTV news yesterday. Tomorrow, the senior diplomat of the European Union plans to negotiate with the Russian Foreign Minister. If this is not followed by the release of Navaly, the European Union must show decisively its political will and, with the help of joint sanctions by allies, it must go where it hurts. The Saeima's statement on the announcement of a court judgment in the case of Alexey Navalya and on the repression and persecution of the opposition, civil society and media in Russia are both a clear signal to our neighbour and support for further action by our allies. The sanctions are fine, and it is time to show teeth on a European and broader scale - together with all our allies - to actively defend the values we stand for - democracy, human rights, freedom of speech and assembly, and others. Dear colleagues, I call for support for the statement made by the Commission on Foreign Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2188-U11	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2188-U12	Good morning, dear colleagues! What is happening today reminds me very much of one person's words. He said: “These are my principles. If you don't like them - well, I have others." What is the value, colleagues, of those principles that are only when they are profitable, comfortable?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. When it is no longer beneficial - then the principles disappear. In my opinion, the best signal and example comes from those who live in accordance with the principles, the values they have declared. If any statements or calls for values come from those people or from countries that do not live by those values and principles themselves, then - at best - these calls will be interpreted as two-way and will not have any effect. Colleagues, the greatest effect is the greatest effect! - If you want to teach someone or invite someone to follow principles, it comes from you, we live and work according to those principles. And here, my fellow Members, I would like to ask you, especially Members of the coalition, a question: do we consistently stand up for these principles, for those values, for human rights throughout the world? Or, for example, when human rights violations occur in a country such as Saudi Arabia - or then do we see such a resolution, a draft such a decision from the Foreign Affairs Commission? Did we see any such draft decision two years ago, when something happened to a Saudi journalist? I don't remember such a draft decision. If we promote these principles and do so, we must also be prepared to do so when human rights violations occur in any country in the world, because otherwise, who will take such statements seriously? The second question I would like to ask you, my fellow Members. This draft decision is a call for an end to the repression and persecution of the democratic opposition in the Russian Federation. Such a question, colleagues - which party is sitting in opposition to our Saeima forever? Has any of you ever called this party a Russian party? Could that be the case? Are you not the ones who classify parties in our country as Latvian and Russian parties? Colleagues, 40 percent of the population in our country is not Latvian - 40 percent! Ask yourself, colleagues: what is the share of non-Latvians in our government, what is the share of non-Latvians in your parties? What is the proportion of non-Latvians among Members within the National Union, for example? So... We will vote today in favour of calling on Russia to treat the opposition correctly, but how do you treat the opposition? How many percentage of non-Latvians are in that opposition party? How do you treat this party yourself, these same non-Latvians living in our country, their voices, their choices? Isn't it that those Members they choose are sitting in opposition forever? And finally, third. This issue is specifically about our recent other resolution of this kind, which I have also supported... I've supported it. I am talking about Belarus. We then voted in favour of a resolution of a similar nature. And then, in fact, we also called on at least those Belarusian businesses, those who flee Belarus, those who do what they do there... And now, very recently, colleagues, we have a legislative initiative in the Saeima so that these people can start work more quickly. Mr Kola, how have you voted in favour of this proposal? Did you support it? What do you think it says about those values? Do you have the same values when it is beneficial and when it is less politically advantageous? So... Colleagues, even if the correct words come from those who... I know what... I see what follows those words... I think that this is not a reason for them not to be supported by the right words. But I call on you, my fellow Members, to think carefully about whether you are always following the words and values that you are promulgating - or whether it is not politically advantageous, even when something needs to be paid for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2188-U13	Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2188-U14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, From my side - short remarks about what has been heard so far. Well, let's start with the previous speaker. Neither the substance of the notification nor the facts and references contained therein... and the nature of the things, if you mention comparisons with Saudi Arabia... and why isn't either reaction... I do not remember that Saudi Arabia would be a member of the Council of Europe and would also be bound by the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. By the way, the Russian Federation is such and is bound by the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. But, as we can see, they are selective in their execution or... On the contrary, if it does not meet any of the interests of the regime, it may fail to do so, it may violate it and sow nihilism not only in Russia, at national level, but also undermine the principles of international law. That's one rejoinder. Well, of course, all kinds of things can be turned... that here different perceptions are about values... This is the mentioned Immigration Law for Belarusian asylum seekers... You have to read this amendment, my fellow Members. the proposer... there is no problem with the annotation that these applications are still being examined within three months. Also, by mentioning the practice of other Member States of the European Union... It's all valid because reducing only to Belarus... In fact, it is misleading the public. Those amendments are much broader, covering any asylum seeker. And the claim that it's only 100 people a year... Yeah, it's this year, maybe not next year. But as a result, it's a little salt... white thread sewed these accusations. And closing... Another speaker who spoke... Well, to Mrs Stepanenko, I would like to remind you that we are not the USSR and people are not given jobs. And when it comes to sanctions, it is clearly known for a long time that its sanctions are aimed at certain officials involved in human rights violations. These sanctions are in no way directed against the Russian people. But if you need to defend the ruling regime in Russia, then you have to do what you have to do... what you also express in your speeches. With regard to what Mr Gobzem has said. Mr. Gobzem a few times is... He felt that his rights had been violated and he would turn to the European Court of Human Rights. He understands the importance of the European Court of Human Rights and that the Member States, which have also ratified the European Convention on Human Rights, should comply with these judgments. This communication is very directly related to respect for human rights, international obligations and international law. And if it is necessary to understand the meaning of the statement, I think we can imagine in abstract terms that the statement... Instead of the word “Aleksei Navalney”, I would put “Aldis Gobzems”. Would rhetoric then still be the same, or would I understand why it is necessary to express such and not different positions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2188-U15	The floor in the debate for Member Uldis Budriks.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2188-U16	Hello, dear colleagues! The President of the sitting. I would like to highlight once again the same points that I mentioned and stressed both in the foreign debate and in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, when the powers were challenged against the Russian Federation. I stressed that this was not about Navaline as such, but... And also not about Putin's castles, about vineyards, about personal sports and hockey halls... This last week was about almost three and a half thousand people who have human rights... they are under attack. At present, this figure has more than doubled. This only indicates that overall international pressure has not been sufficient. There must be really specific, targeted sanctions against all the parties involved - from prosecutors to the court itself, which has also explicitly ignored what the European Court of Human Rights has decided, and although it is difficult to do so procedurally, it must be stressed that it is necessary to take away, at least try to withdraw the right to vote once again, and to prohibit the Russian Federation delegation from participating in the European Parliamentary Assembly... Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. But I would also like to emphasise once again that this is not about Navaly as a person, it is about the rule of law, it is about respect for human rights as such, because we cannot, nor can we look back at the past, support a number of things that Navaly as a person, as the Russian politician has said and said in connection with foreign policy issues, but we must not be indifferent to the violation of human rights in Russia. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I am strongly calling for support for this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2188-U17	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2188-U18	(Sound defect.) ... the Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, The well-known Russian poet Alexander Pushkin has said in the 19th century: “Of course I despise my father’s land from head to foot, but I am irritated if a foreigner shares this feeling with me.” ( End quoted) I would like to touch on an aspect such as national pride. Every country has such a phenomenon... and for each nation. It is unlikely that Latvia's people would be happy to watch if the international pressure, as they are currently doing for Russia, were to be put in place in Latvia. Despite the fact that Alexey Navalny is right or not, he is supported by quite a large number of middle-class, large cities, but at the moment he lacks support for it purely arithmetically, because let's say, working people, civil servants... they mainly support the existing government. Do we, with statements such as we want to do today, promote the unification of the people around the opposition in Russia? People may hate the existing regime, but they are against international involvement in domestic processes. Russia itself made its own choice in 1991. There was bloodshed in the streets of Moscow, there was sacrifice, but people made democratic choices. I don't think we need to encourage this now with our industrious actions... provoke the insult, let's say that... or need to insult people about foreign agents and so on. I was looking closely at both the state and informal Russian media in connection with the Navaline process, and there was a lot of talk about foreign diplomats in this court case, as well as about the employees of the Embassy of Latvia. Are we doing the right thing by sending our diplomats to this event? That is a dubious question. Maybe we need to look from the outside and not to get people to be called foreign agents. Russia is always quite painful about its sovereignty. There are people who are against Putin, some camps, there are people, let us say, the left-wing opposition, the national patriotic opposition. The nealine with its pickets corresponds to only one part - about two to five percent of the so-called liberal opposition. By the way, in their camp, there are some, let us say so, directions, such as Michael Hodorkovsky - he takes a completely different position, he is against Navaline. He also speaks against Navaly in his past, the so-called Russian route. In 2011, he took part in a nationalist march in Russia and, for example, was strongly criticised by Valeria Novodvorska, the leader of the Democratic Union at the time. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that now, of course, Navalinia is difficult, he is sitting in prison, and I can't do anything about a person sitting in prison... Let's say that, criticise him or call him. In any case, it seems that events in Russia are very serious at all. We also need to look at them from the point of view of our internal security, but let us also not forget that there are all kinds of processes going on in our own country, people are being persecuted politically and, let us say so, for purely administrative reasons. Let's see how many people in Latvia have been detained and punished by administrative penalties for not respecting the commandant hour. That's thousands. The number of penalties is approaching millions... and the Chief of State Police himself, Mr Ruka, has said that the police are on the brink of despair, because they cannot administer these offenders, punish them and so on. Of course, we are different in Latvia than in Russia. We don't have to stick with your bats, do with your electric shock. But the question is, do our police units have no weapons such as rubber sticks, electric shocks, water guns and so on? That's all. All special means are ready for the repression of unrest, detention of people and delivery of them to... temporary deprivation of liberty. What does that mean? This only means that we do not differ from Russia by a little letter. Every regime wants to protect itself from opposition, and it is only a coincidence of circumstances that the government currently in Latvia does not apply the means applied by Russia. It's just a question... the question of time. Perhaps it will be tomorrow or maybe not, but all this depends on the overall political situation in the country, on the interaction between the opposition and the coalition, on how we can or cannot find a common language about things. This is necessary and difficult in this crisis situation. It seems to me that it is not necessary to increase the internal tension in Latvia now by making such imprudent statements. I therefore do not take part in this vote and ask the other colleagues not to take part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2188-U19	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2188-U20	Yes, honourable colleagues! Well, it's probably quite difficult to take part in such a debate, which may be one of the people who has parts of different clothes causing too much fantasy. And I could also, of course, read various codes of ethics - both on behaviour and on behaviour in family life - but we will not talk about it at the moment. I would like to respond to Mr Kola that Mr Kola has told me that this is not the Soviet Union and that he is not doing any work here. Mr Kohl apparently has not created any jobs and has not offered any jobs to anyone if he translates my words into the USSR categories. But we are talking specifically about jobs that will be lost by people who simply will not have to feed their family, their children. And Mr Kola will in no way be able to solve this problem because he is probably unable to create jobs. Yes, he knows how to work for himself, but to create jobs so that people can grow into a job, so to develop and work for their family, probably not. As for the Soviet Union, Mr Kola should certainly remember very often, write on the wall in the office, somewhere frame such an entry that this is not the Soviet Union, and every time we look at this inscription, just as we look at Articles 1 and 2 of the Satversme, which we have in the Saeima's Chamber. Look at this inscription every time, remember that this is not the Soviet Union, this is a democratic, free state. Then when Mr. Kola will once again try to suppress the opposition in his efforts to join the Latvian people, because Mr. Kola is no exception. Mr Kola has very often voted... We can take all the votes on reducing speaking time in the Saeima during the budget debate - the two thousand... This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the Mr Kola has been present and voted in favour of the opposition talking less about getting party funding to Mr Kola and his members. One minute, two minutes, that was the ridicule of the Saeima's opposition. This is not the Soviet Union; it is right here to speak to the opposition and others. This is not the Soviet Union; we must not prevent people from expressing their opinions. Mr Kola would also like to do the same to those people who probably want to inform the public about the problems of the various work of the government. This is not the Soviet Union; we must not restrict freedom of expression, which Mr Kola has also taken up in various draft laws. Please remember, Mr. Cole, because we know all this. We want to fight for freedom of expression, for diversity of opinion and for the right to speak with the opposition in the fight for the public interest. Please remember this, please remember. I can also give you a frame so that you can frame this saying and remember. We're all better off. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2188-U21	We are continuing the debate. The name "Aldim Gobzem" for the second time. Mr Gobzem, are you going to have a debate with three minutes?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2188-U22	I'll do it, I'll do it. I did not really understand this demagogic comparison of Mr. Kola between me and Navalnia, but that is very interesting. Mr Kola, I would ask you to include in the next sitting a statement from the Foreign Affairs Commission which condemns the fact that peaceful protesters in the Netherlands are being hit in the park. It would be like... If you are afraid of writing yourself, we will write to you, then let's see if you have a double or double or if you have a Soviet Union or if you have a Soviet Union in Latvia. I will not talk about all the restrictions on which you are always voting in favour in order to limit the opposition, Mr Kola! And the third thing that needs to be said in this context is that it is absolutely clear that such a statement has no meaning, positive meaning for Latvia. All that the Parliament of the Republic of Latvia does must be positive for Latvia, for the people of Latvia. I have not heard such expressions, including from Mr Kola. If we are talking about human rights. Mr. Col, I call you to step up after a break... and yet condemn the fact that the Latvian - you are from that Latvian party that says it is a party of 18 November... get up in the courtroom and say that you condemn that Latvians, who sing in Latvian on November 18 at the Freedom Monument “God, bless Latvia!” , fine with 500 euros fine for the police in Latvia. You are a Latvian party of 18 November - you say that, Mr. Kola! Now, take courage! Or you're still a greenhouse plant, as you've always been for all your life, by the way. It would be principled - to stand up for Latvians, so that they can sing “God bless Latvia!” at the Freedom Monument without punishment, because it is a violation of human rights, a serious violation of human rights, Mr. Kola! A much more serious violation of human rights than the issues that you are dealing with today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2188-U23	I closed the debate. Mr. Kola, on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2188-U24	Thank you for your views... different views. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I call on Members to vote in favour of the draft statement by the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2188-U25	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the announcement of a court judgment in the case of Alexey Navalya and the repression and persecution of the democratic opposition, civil society and media in the Russian Federation! Please vote mode! It's not about - 65, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Colleagues, it's time for the next break. We may continue to discuss the agenda of this sitting after a break. So the break is till 11 a.m. Only registration of participants. It's been a success. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2188-U26	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! We continue the second remote emergency sitting on 4 February after the break. On the agenda - consideration of the draft decision. The draft decision “On the Cabinet of Ministers Order of 28 January 2021 No. 53 amending Order of 6 November 2020 No. 655 ‘Proclaiming an emergency’. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2188-U27	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! In its meeting of 3 February 2021, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined the Cabinet of Ministers’ Order of 28 January 2021 on amendments to the declared emergency situation. I wanted to say that there are no major changes, in fact no new restrictions either. The order is limited to two cases, namely that it sets out the actions and conditions for those persons who are released from prison but who do not have an independent place of residence, to spend quarantine or self-insulation periods, if they are co-positive or if they have been a contact person. The second amendment, however, provides for the right of the NEPT to transfer news and information programmes produced by Latvian public media to other media without remuneration, as well as to decide on the termination of the use of programmes if the particular media does not comply with the relevant conditions. The Commission, having heard the representatives of the government, the institutions, legal experts, the amendments to the Emergency Order imposed by the government were found to be justified, proportionate and necessary in the specific situation. I therefore call for support for the draft decision drawn up by the Commission. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2188-U28	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no one in the debate. If so, please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On Cabinet of Ministers Order of 28 January 2021 No. 53 amending Order of 6 November 2020 No. 655 “Advertising the Emergency”! Please, let's vote! For -62, for -1, for -13. Decision adopted. Colleagues, with this vote, we conclude the second remote emergency sitting on 4 February. Registration of Members' presence. It's over. We will continue with the third remote emergency sitting on 4 February in 15 minutes.
