ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U1	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Starting the remote emergency sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 22 October 2021. And before we start to discuss the agenda of the sitting, I would ask for a minute's silence to be mentioned today by our fellow Member Ojāra Ēriks Kalniņš. ( A moment of silence.) Thank you. See start of agenda for the meeting on 22 October 2021. On the agenda - consideration of draft decisions. The draft decision “On the Cabinet of Ministers Order of 21 October 2021 No. 749 amending Order of 10 August 2021. 518 ‘Proclaiming an emergency’. Mārtiņš Steins, a Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, reports. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U2	Hello, honourable leader of the Saeima sitting! Colleagues! The first thing we are considering is the draft decision “On the Cabinet of Ministers Order of 21 October 2021 No. 749 amending Order of 10 August 2021. 518 ‘Proclaiming an emergency’. This is related to the exceptional situation on the border between the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Belarus. The draft order provides for the extension of the emergency situation in certain administrative territories, as previously established, taking into account the still fragile situation at the state border between the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Belarus. It is therefore intended to extend the emergency until 10 February 2022. The Commission supported the draft decision and calls on the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U3	Thank you for your report. Members have not applied for a debate on this draft decision. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On Cabinet of Ministers Order of 21 October 2021 No. 749 amending Order of 10 August 2021. 518 “Advertising the Emergency”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 65, it's against - 1, it's not. Decision adopted. On the agenda – draft decision “On Cabinet of Ministers Order of 13 October 2021 No. 736 and 20 October 2021 748 amending Order of 9 October 2021. 720 ‘Advertising the Emergency’. Member Juris Rancāns shall report on behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U4	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! So, as you know, today the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission has dealt with both just mentioned orders for amendments to the declared emergency situation. I got these numbers... I will not refer, but say that what we are hearing now from ministries, including from the Ministry of Health, is really dramatic... I may not refer to all of the most important things, because I see that the Minister for Health has also applied, but I may not be the main things that have been said in the commission... Consequently, the amendments have been announced due to the significant deterioration of the epidemiological situation and the congestion of hospitals. As you know, for four days in a row, Latvia is the world's first place in terms of Covid-19 cases per 100 thousand inhabitants. Today, there are 1210 patients in hospitals (after the commission). An epidemiological forecast is that if nothing is done, this number will double within 16 days, the number of seriously ill and dead will increase significantly. At the Commission meeting, it was said that last day the number of positive tests exceeded 3,000 and there were 29 deaths. So far, they were on average 16 dead a day. And in the absolute majority of cases these deaths were prevented by vaccination. I will name the most important things that are mentioned in both amendments. The first were more technical. The second one is much more important, and it sets the seat and very strict restrictions. Therefore, it is important that further vaccinated persons will also have to comply with quarantine, because this order establishes that the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation does not apply at present. Point 194, which previously allowed vaccinated persons not to take quarantine. In addition, from 15 December this year, it is stipulated that all staff working on the ground, including volunteers and external contractors, will need a vaccination or congestion certificate. As regards the restriction of freedom of assembly and of movement, the order provides that any private measures, gathering within more than one household, including assembly in pickets, meetings and similar events, shall be prohibited. There can gather up to 10 people from two households, in funerals – outside – up to 20 people, excluding persons directly related to the provision of funerals or baptisms. If personal care is required or if a person lives alone, visits are permitted, but not more than two households. It shall also be prohibited to leave the place of residence during the period from 20.00 to 5.00, so from 20.00 to 5.00 a.m., except for persons with completed self-certifications carrying out their duties, going to or from work, going to receive psychological support and medical services, including vaccination, going to pharmacy or going to receive veterinary medicine services. The exceptions will also apply to movements to or from the place of transport of passengers at the airport, port, railway station or bus station. The self-certification shall include the name of the person, the personal number, the address of the place of residence, the reason and time of leaving the place of residence or stay, the name and address of the workplace and the telephone number or place of receipt of the service of the employer or of the contact person designated by it. I would like to say that self-certification forms can be found on the State Police website on the Internet, so that I invite those who need it to use this opportunity accordingly. In the case of taxis, there will be only one passenger or member of a single household, which may be several, or a passenger, together with a minor child or a person who needs assistance from an assistant or who has objective difficulties due to age or functional impairment. Of course, masks should also be used in transport in all cases. Private vehicles are allowed to move at the same time only to members of one household, and the number here is limited to traffic rules – as much as is allowed to be in the car. In turn, if individuals are not from one household, there may be only two persons from different households. With the assistance of a minor or a person who needs assistance from an assistant or who has objective difficulties due to age or functional limitations, the private vehicle is allowed to move up to three persons from several households. The restriction on these private vehicles does not apply to employees (officials) employed in sectors of critical importance to society. Thus, as I have already mentioned, all vehicles must use masks. The amendments also provide that all workers working on the ground, including fully vaccinated and overloaded persons, on arrival at the workplace confirm in writing that they do not show any signs of acute respiratory infection and have not been in direct contact with persons with established isolation, house quarantine or self-insulation. As well as in the field of trade and services, service providers and first-needed sales outlets will be able to start work not earlier than 6.00 a.m. and end no later than 19.00 a.m. Service stations, day-to-day pharmacy, tourist accommodation, vaccination stations, public transport, freight and passenger transport and related services, emergency and emergency utilities facilities are not limited in their duration. Food and hygiene stores, pharmacy, optics shops, petrol stations, animal feed shops and veterinary pharmacy, press shops, bookshops, telecommunications and service places, flower shops, and ticket offices for bus and railway stations are working in the house. Goods bought in distance sales must be issued outside the premises. Thus, the requirement that at the point of sale one visitor should provide 25 square metres of public space space. It should be noted that currently there is no provision of entertainment, beauty, physical activities and tourism, gambling, betting, entertainment services, including in Aquaparks, entertainment and entertainment centers, trampoline parks. Cultures, libraries and exhibitions will not work. Food should only be given at the eating sites for consumption. As far as transport is concerned, urban and suburban public transport has a maximum capacity of 50 per cent and regional transport has 80 per cent and, of course, ventilation and masking must be ensured everywhere. Local authorities and public transport service providers receiving grants from local authorities do not benefit from fares, while public transport operators may continue to benefit from fares provided by the State while travelling on regional routes on buses and trains. The benefits of travel fees shall be maintained everywhere for persons with first and second-group disabilities and their escorts. In the field of education, however, the autumn holidays for pupils are extended until 29 October of this year. There will be a gradual renewal of the education of the motherland by reinstatement of on-the-spot training 1-3 from 1 November to 1 November. from 15 November to 4-12. for class 1. By these dates, the teachings are thus carried out at a distance. In kindergartens there are watchkeeping groups for children whose parents work in a critically necessary workplace. By 15 November, all classes of interest education and extra-class activities shall also be abolished. Consideration should be given to the functioning of the courts. The courts thus carry out their duties either remotely or in writing. The hearing shall take place in the presence of the oral proceedings if the hearing cannot be ensured in writing or at a distance and the examination of the case is related to a significant violation of the rights of the person and to objective urgency. As for sport, all sports events (with some exceptions, which have been referred to in more detail in the order, but I may not read everything again here in detail) have been banned and abolished. As regards this common dramatic situation, when the Commission heard representatives of the ministries, the Centre for Disease Prevention and Control about these trends in the epidemiological situation, and also the Ombudsman, the Commission acknowledges that the amendments in question and the restrictions announced in that particular situation are justified, necessary and proportionate. On behalf of the Commission, I therefore call for support for the draft Saeima decision prepared by the Commission, which supports the government's announced amendments to the emergency situation. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U5	Thank you for your report. Let's start a debate. The name of the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavlut. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U6	Dear Members of the Saeima! Honourable Members! Dear Member of the Speaker of the Saeima. Colleagues and colleagues! In our country, a cruel plague is raging. We are already taking our feet across the edge of the blood to stop a virus that has been able to grow unprecedented strength in our country. We are forced to stop our people. This government decision has come with a hard heart, but we have no choice. We have apologised and asked for solidarity between the people of the vaccinated population, the parents with children, and the people of the education system. Thank you to those who are willing to patiently comply with the safety conditions in order to protect hospitals from the disaster, medical practitioners from the obligation to choose whom to provide or not to provide assistance. And the most important thing is to protect our seniors from serious and potentially fatal illness. Every day, when someone who has not protected himself is slowing down or waiting, it causes huge damage to all of us – lost knowledge, spiritual balance, lost income and loss of health and life. Yes, the main reason for this sitting is that almost half of Latvia's population has not yet taken advantage of the opportunity offered to them to vaccinate. We have the capacity to vaccinate 100,000 people a week. If anyone who has not yet vaccinated wishes to do so, we could protect them for six and seven weeks. The pace of vaccination has risen very rapidly since the emergency situation was declared. We are now Europe's leaders, not only in terms of morbidity, but also in terms of the pace of vaccination. Since the state of emergency, there are 33,000 vaccination facts in the age group over 60, including 26,000 seniors who have received the first pots. Thank you family doctors, medical institutions, all those who have vaccinated more than half of Latvia's population, more than a million people. The family doctors will be assisted by municipalities. We have to talk to everyone. Medical institutions and municipalities have confirmed their readiness to help reach seniors, call, leave, leave. Every opportunity should be used to increase the vaccination coverage in this emergency situation, and in particular in the four-week home accommodation. Currently, Covid-19 lives of patients are saved in clinical university hospitals, regional hospitals and hospitals across Latvia. Today, there are 1257 patients in hospitals, and after two weeks this number could inevitably be twice as high. In parallel to vaccination, we are working on a crisis plan for the deployment of hospitals to care for 1500, 2000, 2500 or more patients. We have requested international assistance. Let us mobilise the resources of all medical institutions (including private ones) when necessary. Young doctors, residents, students, non-practical doctors come to our aid, however, we have to consider that with every new patient, community patients, a hundred other hospitals in Latvia are growing... a range of health services that would not be provided. Untreated diseases will accumulate, and in the worst case scenario, there will be no possibility to help people with other life-threatening diseases. Colleagues, the moment has now come for a comprehensive joint mobilisation. Collecting all the forces, resources, good will to achieve the purpose of the house sitting – to significantly reduce contacts. Reduce viral transmission, break new disease and increase hospitalization curves. Let's get back to green after the house. Services, shops, entertainment opportunities will only be available for people with vaccination or congestion certificates. On the other hand, unvaccinated people have to face increasing burdens. I call on every vaccinated member of the Saeima who has the opportunity to speak to one unvaccinated person – one human, encouraging call can prove decisive and someone can save his life. Only together – vaccinated and volatile – we are one whole, regardless of the belief, faith, place of residence, language in which we speak, we are one society. In critical situations, we have always been able to get and fight, and together we are able to win freedom from the Covid-19. I would like to thank all those who help and support. Dear Members, honourable Members, On behalf of the Government, I call for support for this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U7	Thank you to the Minister for Health for taking part in the debate. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U8	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, The situation is not in any way everyday at the moment, and these solutions are, in my opinion, quite difficult to find here. However, thank the Minister for his speech and, in a way, for the details of the problems. But the Minister should also honestly tell us what the reason for these problems is why we are in such a situation today in Latvia. We see the government's decision... Let's say that... weak position at this point. It is trying to go and fight this pandemic with strength. Unfortunately, we are in such a situation, and unfortunately we also see what these restrictions mean in everyday life. I also think any of us colleagues... Many of us were on the streets of Riga yesterday and were able to see that this life is going on to a great extent, and this situation is absolutely not comparable to what it was when these big restrictions were the first time that citizens really respected and obeyed them. At the moment, it is a feeling that citizens continue to live as before, and this is largely justified by this huge distrust for the government and the decisions taken by the government. There is now a situation where even health experts do not trust the government. This, in my opinion, is a huge signal for the members of the government, including its head, to consider whether they are currently taking up the right positions. If we are watching, health experts are already at the beginning of September – at the beginning of September! – sent first signals about the fact that the situation was not good. If we look, at the end of September there were already specific calls that the government was not hearing. We saw in the beginning of October that the working group of government experts even refused to cooperate further because it had already predicted the outcome that we have in hospitals today in Latvia. All this was predictable, and the experts predicted it. And now you tell me someone's guilty of it... I think that the government should look in the mirror and see who is the real perpetrators of this situation so far. At present, hospitals are overloaded, people do not trust the government, nor do they respect government decisions. The fight against this pandemic has become even more complicated than it was before. Of course, I welcome the ministries... At the moment, I would say, during the whole pandemic for the second time and only at the moment, it could be said, finally, that it has become so, when, by its very nature, we turn to the municipalities for help, that we understand that the municipalities are still closer to the population and can give them a helping hand in this situation, as they did at the time when these large vaccination centres should have been set up. It cannot be overlooked that still, today, we still have the space to set up these centres and have still not received any remuneration for it. That's why, right now, this involvement in giving a helping hand... It is good that we have municipal leaders who are truly prepared to do so, regardless of how they are treated by the government. Also in this time of crisis. I also hope that Mr Pavļuta is listening to this speech and perhaps the changes that we proposed yesterday will also be made – that this EUR 20 is worth paying when the person is already receiving the first vaccine. Perhaps you should consider this question in the government. People, especially seniors, if we focus on seniors, from the first moment they have chosen to go – so that they get this 20 euros from now on. This will relieve our health system. That would be the right step. And it would be even more correct to really strengthen the substance... to exclude situations where a healthcare system may ask for some support. Colleagues! Without going into the contents of this decision... I think that the government must take responsibility for this situation, which, unfortunately, is not doing so at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U9	The name of Member Ramona Petraviča. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U10	Very respectful head of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, I read the order... Point 5.49.1: “The movement of the population between 20.00 and 5.00 shall be prohibited by imposing an obligation on the population to stay in their place of residence or stay.” The prohibition of movement when a person presents a completed certificate and an identity document – this is not the case. And here are the individual cases where you can move between 20.00 and 5 a.m. Then a logical question arises – how about leaving pets (dogs) out? And that's a question that many people ask, because it's really a question. It is not possible for the dog to tell you that there is now a commanding hour and it is necessary to meet his needs by 8 p.m. and then wait until 5 p.m. And dogs are not just one percent of the population. If we were here and I would ask you to raise your hands from Members... whose families have a dog, I think at least half have a dog. But surely, if you don't have yourself, then you know a neighbor who has a dog. As the Chief of Police, Mr Ruck has shown in the press that every dog's export will be assessed individually. Then the police will be actively involved in the evaluation of dog owners, and how will this be measured by the dog’s breed or the owner’s nationality or vaccination? A vaccinated host may be able to bring his or her dog to meet the natural needs, but unvaccinated? That must be made clear. We need to talk specifically, not around. The handling of natural dogs has absolutely nothing to do with reducing the spread of the virus. And the Cabinet of Ministers must prevent such gross negligence or deliberately committed error. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U11	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U12	Please combine the times.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U13	Your times are united. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U14	Dear President, Dear colleagues, In the spring of this year, I was vaccinated against the coronavirus – voluntarily and in a common line in a simple Purvciems district clinic. But now, like hundreds of thousands of people, I feel deceived by the Latvian government. I do not consider these measures to be adequate, nor do they comply with the principles of good governance. There is, however, nothing to wonder about. If we remember all the last three years of work of the ruling coalitions 13. In the Saeima, we will find constant stupidity and folly, whether it was the repair of the financial sector, the taking over of the port under state control, the reform of schools or relations with neighbouring countries – everywhere Karina government has climbed into the rake. By the way, which was not yet known this summer, a rise in seasonal disease may occur in the autumn, as happened one year earlier. Did not the Latvian government really know about the highly infectious, contagious strains of delta coronavirus, which science has described at least one year in advance? The thing is completely in one of the words of a hit politician: “It has never happened, and here it is again.” But the author of this aphorism, Chernobyl, had thought Russia in the 1990s, not Latvia, which is now a member of the European Union and NATO in the 20th century. I saw quite a lot of confusion in the Cabinet's broadcast. There was no Foreign Minister Rinkēvičs, he hastened to fly to America, perhaps asking our overseas allies for help. But Anita Muižniece, in the Ministry of Education, committed to bringing children back from home to schools all the time, but I don’t know why the Ministry left the task of caring for children in schools with special needs even on autumn holidays. This is as if a child with a brain - affected disease would be better protected from the coronavirus. By the way, the Riga City Council, whose management is currently in line with the current ruling coalition across the country, abolished the privileges of teachers in public transport. They don't have to be fired, they have to go to work on their feet. The management of Riga City Council apparently decided that it is best to keep children blind during the autumn days and turn their backs in front of monitors, to get children used to distance learning, if you can say so, so the sports fields in the capital are also closed. So if the government has forgotten about something, then the capital authorities will make a checkout in our head. Will all these dramatic measures help us? Doubt. I can assume only a little. In any case, until 15 November, they will not be able to change the situation and the current restrictions are likely to be extended further and further, and then until summer 2022. In addition, many members of the Cabinet of Ministers have clearly become infected with the coronavirus, because their goat has completely disappeared. Because the authorities have an unpleasant smell of theft. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U15	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U16	Colleagues! There was, of course, a hope for us that the Cabinet of Ministers would amend this order a little, but think about it, but we can see that these amendments are about... in principle no. So there is no extension of the time for the possibilities for even a little people to survive for a few weeks, nor a chance to talk in some way about the test payment from, say... agree with the employer. We can see that this wave of suspension is... ready. We see that the employment relationship, to which employees trusted all these years in free time in Latvia, hoping that... and making sure that the Labour Law protects them and that there is nothing more stable in our country as an employment relationship, and the employee will always be protected... Now... Now, of course, this illusion has completely broken down. We can, of course, talk about the home sitting; we can talk about the various things that are now... embarrass those people who, as Mr Kabanov pointed out, have vaccinated and are currently in a situation of misunderstanding as to why they have to suffer for this, but I would like to say that the information we have received from the same Mr Pavluta shows that, unfortunately, everyone is ill in this case. And to share people in the way this order is intended, and to avenge those people who have made their choice, then to threaten them with some super-restriction that they will not be able to leave their home at all, is certainly not only evil, but also very foolish, because we see that no one wants to cooperate with the government anymore. We can see that the government is simply trying to get out of its own problems in some way and is not far away. We have heard a very sad reading of the speech that Mr Pavilut did. He is not even able to tell people from the heart what has happened. Obviously, there is only such a calculation here in a way, and I would also like to understand from Mr Pavļuta where the whole money has then been left; where then, the preparations that should have been this summer in relation to all the options that we should have been taking to treat this disease have disappeared. And we have also asked for a detailed overview of all expenses – which have been bought for this money, when and under what conditions. It will also be very interesting for us to know exactly this information from Mr Pavļuta. I would therefore like to call on you, fellow Members, to make sense, to stop sorting people, to stop attacking people, to put the healthcare system in order to help everyone and to return to the humanity that you have lost at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U17	The name of Member Regina Lochmele. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U18	Hello, colleagues! I am grateful to the Minister for Health that he found time to address members of the Saeima to explain to some extent the position of introducing an emergency situation in Latvia that it was based to a large extent on the information provided by the Ministry of Health. On the other hand, I am outrageted by your call, Mr Pavļuta, to speak to people and to persuade them to vaccinate them. You know, we're already doing this every day. I personally talk to someone every day, and I really can convince both young and older people and people who are chronically ill. But was that what I had to do? Did we have to do that? Was it not for those who were paid for it? I am referring first of all to the vaccination office that you have set up. You know, now let go, please, Mrs. Juhveviča, I can no longer hold on to her speech, the honourable name! You forgive me, but delay it until the next Wednesday, when the parliamentary Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Public Solidarity is looking at the question of whether to allow Russian-speaking seniors to spread a letter in their own language, a call for grafting, now that we are growing the number of infected people, not even in geometrical but cubic progression, in a situation where people die from viral pneumonia, from viral pneumonia, which is not treatable by any antibiotic... and there are no medications currently against this pneumonia... And that's why people die. You cannot even explain this to people in the normal language, let alone the fact that older people had to speak a year ago. I called on you a year ago to hand over this whole process to a family doctor... involve them, give them resources, and forgive me, how can we talk about giving me a hand today to support the introduction of this emergency situation? I know that will nevertheless be supported, because the ruling position will do so. But I will vote against today – as a protest against what is happening. I received a few days ago an answer from Mr Pavļuta to the question of whether studies are being carried out in the country in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic. I received an answer that, yes, EUR 5.5 million has been distributed. €5.5 million for studies as a whole, a total of 11 studies, and on the basis of this... EUR half a million per study. Reading the titles of these studies, I wonder why the government is still talking about the lack of information, the lack of ability to agree on something. Where are the results of these 11 studies, to which you spend the budget and which cannot convince you to act in harmony with common sense? It is not about the fact that there was no need to put an emergency in place now. It is about being the consequence of your inaction and your unprofessionality, it is the result of your inaction and non-professionality, which you will continue to multiply consistently. I will vote against today - as a protest against what is happening. You have to go! All government, all... the Minister for Health... and, please, Mrs. Juhvevič... she can't handle her responsibilities. Give her back Song Festival! In particular, they do not occur during an emergency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U19	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U20	Hello, dear colleagues! We haven't met in online mode for a long time, but it's time to talk about these topics. We have been talking for a year and a half, and as if we were speaking the same texts that we are talking about today. Nothing changes. The government is always not ready, the beds are not in hospitals, the lack of specialists, and 8,000 nurses are missing. What has been done in the meantime, over a period of one and a half years? Why can we not urgently prepare nurses who serve the members of the team or the sick during the war? We do not have volunteers who can do so? Especially with the cash flow passing through the Cabinet – to the right, to the left... million, hundreds of millions. But most importantly – unfortunately, the government cannot save the state. If we're asking for international help... with what is that we lack beds... I am sorry, a few years ago, the Prime Minister said that we had too many hospitals in Latvia. Too much! Let's get it! And out of 25 thousand specialists, we're left... How many? Only half that. Half's gone, half's gone. And the new what? Why do we not teach new ones in an urgent manner? I understand you can't train nurses for a month, three for a month. But one and a half years can be taught. It doesn't end, and we don't just need to watch – well, first, the second wave passed by, well, we don't need anything. I need it! And one year later, three years later, five years later, you need it. What will happen to our medical care system? That we're talking all the time – it's not. Always give money... I missed the money... We have medical staff, and that's enough. But they have burn syndrome. What are you doing there? You don't do anything. And here, if we take three such serious orders, then not only do you need to talk to Pavilās here, every minister needs to talk about his own sector, and Karina needs to explain here too... not only in the presence of television, but here to explain to the Members of the Saeima what is happening. We're accused of being... we're against that vaccination... we are not against vaccination, but if Karin wants to talk to people of other nationalities, please come and talk. In the language spoken by the people, not in a foreign language. Maybe then they'll listen to you. Don't be afraid of people. We need to go before the people and talk, not just in the presence of the police. We saw that there were many employees of the industry here near the Saeima, yes, they were worried... how they can support their families. We need a compromise! Therefore, politicians are – to find a compromise and find the same best. If we're now introducing a clown, well, where those specialists, where these studies are about five and a half million, if you can't count how the table goes up... how to introduce that pilot already in September, when it was just the beginning... It's a disease... then we could stop... and have been able to return for a long time. No, we're waiting until the last one, the worst one, and now we're putting in a locdaun so that we go for another two months... we would climb up to the new year, and only then start climbing down. Now we will not have that celebration of our Latvia on November 18th. We're not! We're going to sit in the locdauna like we were sitting... We're sitting now. And that... Unfortunately, there is a fault in the Cabinet. I also agree with those Members who said that the whole Cabinet of Ministers needs to leave, because you cannot resolve this within one and a half years. I call for a 'no' vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U21	The name of Member Eric Pucen. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U22	Hello, dear colleagues! It is a great pleasure that today we have also been honored by the Minister of Health, Daniel Pavluts. But by listening to his mourning speech and accusations to us, Members, that we do not do anything, then... First of all, the Minister should look at himself. We, as Members, have made many proposals and, Daniel Pavlut, you have a great opportunity to gain my trust, and I will help you. We had tabled to you amendments to the bill, where we talked about the antibodies to the cells that are found in people who have overloaded, then take and, please at least, look at it in the Commission and not just reject it. You say we have to work together, but what do you do yourself? You don't even want to work with us yourself, and then you go on TV and tell us how the members of the opposition... how bad they are... Then look at yourself first! And this order of the Cabinet of Ministers... I do not see how I could support or support. This order of the Cabinet of Ministers clearly shows that the company will be divided even more in half, and perhaps for one of the ruling members it is beneficial that the company is not united. And this decision will bring more people into poverty. To me yesterday, one of the acquaintances where I go to frown my beard... He says to me: “Erick, the Ministry of Health will give us 250 euros. How can I... I don't even have to pay. How can we survive?’ And then what can these people do? I can only recommend to them: call the Ministry of Economics and tell them this. This is terrible, and this pilot will not solve anything; people will also look for ways to work because they have to feed their families. So I do not see that this order of the Cabinet of Ministers is rational and understandable. Colleagues! Consider yourself with a cool mind if this one is to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U23	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U24	Colleagues, I heard what my colleagues said from the opposition. Mr Klementyev, on 12 October, at the meeting of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, you personally voted in favour of this emergency order, which, in the first instance, brought all this disaster with the distortion of the legal employment relationship. You knew very well what this order contained, Evik Siliņa explained to you at the commission meeting, and she talked very long about what it contains. You had the opportunity to vote against, even before your constituents. You voted in favour. This is, of course, recorded; we have all seen it. Now you don't have to tell me that you're criticising something or that you're offering something. The vote of each Member shall be visible. Go on. If we are talking about some government mistakes, we are sorry about the biggest group, collect votes, you can do it, 34 votes for the fall of the government. You can do this, and we will all support you, those who are the real opposition. We'll be happy to vote to send Daniel Pavilut home... and all the others who are trying to make something out of themselves at the moment – the big rescuers. Do it, do it, you have all the beauty in your hands. You could also sign the application of the Constitutional Court, but you did not. You are not ready to do anything, you are only ready to speak in Saeima sittings and complain about bad government. Make something meaningful once! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U25	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U26	Thank you. Colleagues! Before forcing others to do anything, it is necessary to carry out their own homework or responsibilities. Has the government carried out its homework in this period in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic? Last year the government went on vacation in the summer period, as well as this year on vacation, on business trips and spent money on trips, including members of the Saeima, in mass truth. From the ruling coalition, of course. What does that point to? This indicates that there is still a catastrophic absence of communication – correct, open and true – with the public. The government did not have a unified strategy, there was no inter-institutional and ministerial cooperation. There is still no feedback to society. Access to information in a language which can be understood by all citizens and citizens of the country... The Russian-valuable population was also not available in quality and detail, and still is not available in contrast to Estonia, which, as the pandemic began, provided information in all three languages – Estonian, Russian and English. In Latvia, the category of Russian population does not prioritise information and also explanation of the need. Taxes are paid by all Latvian citizens and citizens, while 37 percent of the population are excluded from the information space practically objectively. The government has also not ensured the right to choose a vaccine. In the context of bilateral relations, it has not even been assessed whether those people who have vaccinated in other countries with the Chinese or Russian vaccine are eligible... how other European Union countries, such as Italy, Austria, the Czech Republic, have done so. Of course, it is easier to spend funds on PR campaigns and vaccination agencies, advertising agencies rather than building a new hospital, providing a reserve accordingly. The question is, therefore, how effectively the investment influx is ensured. If, in the meantime, a new hospital could be constructed, it may not be necessary to seek international assistance. You know, colleagues, if the government's leading representatives refer to their people in the most interesting or the most inconvenient way, either as irrational thinking or otherwise, this does not absolutely affect the formation of a positive attitude on the part of society or the strengthening of a social contract between government, politicians and society. Unfortunately, the consequences are what they are. We do not have a new hospital built, but we have millions of research and PR specialists thrown away. Unfortunately, it is only now that we are talking about some kind of motivational incentives, but before that we are talking about some kind of motivational incentives... and, at the moment, by approving this order, we are pursuing only a flat policy. We punish our citizens with no access to information, with administrative penalties, with restrictions, with a name, but we don't give... and disrespect for the people's choices, or for the needs of the people. Talking about carrot. Those resources that came from public money to the elite of power – they are not millions that can be called a carrot. They are fine bags with eggs called Deep White and other agencies that provide PR campaigns in this regard. Unfortunately, I will vote against this order because I believe that this will not change the situation nor will it save us or our medical staff from the situation in which we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U27	The name to Member Ralph Nemir. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U28	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Sir, This situation, which we have behind the window today, is nothing new. The first wave... Yes, quite a lot of different mistakes may have been made there, but already then I said that it is not just something that does nothing. This, in turn, is already the second or the third or the fourth wave. It's getting hard to count. So if we look at the mistakes that have been made... Now, in fact, they are being repeated chronically. When we put questions to various officials within the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry, we conclude that once again the same errors are pointed out, the officials point to each other with their finger and nothing really changes. Of course, our primary task is to protect our citizens from sickness. The Minister for Health, of course, is very precise and points out that the capacity of the health system is currently under threat. And that is very right. But, in my opinion, if we go not so much towards such a carrot, but towards the stick, we can get different effects. First of all, a nation can become perplexed and specifically resist one of the... the following aspects: Moreover, it is very important to note... When a person pays taxes (and we make the state budget out of our taxes paid by businessmen, Latvia, and society), it is necessary to understand... Did these people, at the time they paid the tax, be informed that if they were not vaccinated, they would not receive equivalent support? No, they were not informed. So I think there's more and more... deeper fragmentation and crack... in this context. Therefore, if we look not only at criticism, but also at the opportunity to point out mistakes that should be corrected, honourable colleagues and those who are present – those who have been outside the Republic of Latvia very recently have arrived back, for example, through Riga Airport... As they go out the door of the plane, so they go home. In this case, I think it is necessary to understand where that virus comes from if no student in the class is able to act outside his family, in groups and classes where no one is infected, whether people who work and then drive home and come to a supermarket where people are not infected too... but suddenly the figures become abnormally large. Obviously, we are invading that virus to a large extent... or, if you are coming from abroad. The proposal and offer would be to make simple salivary tests for absolutely all people arriving in the Republic of Latvia to check at least indicatively that they are co-positive or co-negative. If it is co-positive, it is isolated. In this way, we would also reduce these figures. But that is not the case with examples of everyday life. A man leaves the plane, he goes... and goes wherever you want. Therefore, we need to capture such people in an indicative way, not in a primary way, of society. Of course, it must be said that now everything is too late and so much has gone by so far that in fact drastic decisions need to be made to control the situation. That is obviously right this time. But it must have been possible to prepare for this situation and to prepare for it much better. I share the view that it is difficult for government parties to agree and make strong decisions. In this case, there is nothing left to me to wish to make yet firm and timely decisions in order to protect our societies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U29	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U30	Good afternoon, everybody! Yes, this is indeed the case in our country today. And this plague is long ago. This plague is the failure, irresponsibility and incompetentness of this power. That is why Latvia is today the only country in Europe to decide on such critical measures. I would ask everyone to think about the real reasons behind this situation. Why is Latvia in such a situation? Why is Latvia lagging behind in anything? Think about the curse that these red lines bring to Latvia, thanks to which the power in Latvia does not function, how it would be in a democratic state. In particular, if power is weak, if it fails to fulfil the functions assigned to it, if it fails to fulfil its promises, such power must be replaced. This is not possible in Latvia. It is not possible precisely thanks to these red lines. More than that. The second great evil done by these red lines - not only made this power irresponsible and unsustainable, but also divided and alienated Latvian society, divided among themselves and alienated from this power. As a result, we see what we see. What is currently happening with vaccination is a remarkable example: people who have been rejected by this power for 30 years, ignored by trying to humiliate themselves are now responding with the same thing. I followed the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers in which this emergency was decided. It's a feeling that you have something unexpected, unexpected. The feeling was that the most important thing that bothered you to do at that government sitting was to have been to stick to each other about which lobbies of political power have come to a more favourable solution for themselves, and to have an agile attempt to fight each other. It was tragic – to see how the Minister of Education objected to the fact that we would be allowed to sell books. Where is the problem – at a time of crisis, at this time of bear, let people read books? What, then, do you offer your children to do if they are not allowed to read the books? If you were so concerned about teaching on the spot, it would have been better to tell what you've done all the time so that this process – the learning process on the spot – could be ensured... safe. Air-ventilated. As we know, this virus is spreading into the air in the form of an aerosol. Controlling air quality, ensuring adequate air quality would allow children to be safe indoors and to learn. You haven't done anything about it. Perhaps because you did not have the necessary sponsors to motivate you to do so. How different it is to understand all the steps you have taken. For example, instead of giving money to family doctors to ensure a successful vaccination process and targeting those who are most in need of vaccination, you were wasting money in expensive, low-efficiency solutions, spending money in pointless advertising, in expensive vaccination centres that were half-empty. You are imposing restrictions, but you are still unable to justify their meaning and effectiveness. Like blind kittens, you... Mistake in your efforts, and your only idea is how to get to know your mother's bean. While you can feed on it, while all your insanity and insanity can be paid by some loan, you will continue this insanity and irresponsibility show and will present it as your success, as your concern for Latvian society. Yes, you may feel that you are doing your best. Indeed, you are practically unable to do anything, basically the only thing you could do – go home, free the country from this irresponsibility and inability... with which you have wrapped it all. At the beginning of the year, I called for it, which was already at the beginning of the year... Previous year) Krisjani Karina made the only right decision – to demision, go home... realizing that this time is not for the poor, the poor and the little ones. We would not now have this situation, there would not have been thousands of dead people who will die because of this irresponsible, frail power and incompetent decision, for which we will all still have to... For all those who survive and survive... It's very expensive to pay. That is why I would call for this proposal to be considered, Mr Karin, and for the only right decision to be taken. I call on us not to support such a decision that we are proposing here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U31	The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U32	Thank you. According to the same publicly available information... it has been announced that a large number of deaths are related to the general health situation in Latvian society. The current state of emergency, the stress of hospitals, the burndown of doctors and, as appropriate, the lack of doctors and necessary medical staff are also associated with problems that are long-term and have not been addressed for 10 to 15 years. And then the question is, is the government proactive, and is the Ministry of Health offering solutions in the context of next year's budget? What, then, is the budget for next year? If we know that there are an average of 300 doctors in Latvia and eight thousand nurses... We see that the remuneration in the next year's budget has been allocated to doctors by 43 million less than necessary to ensure pay in line with the introduction of the new model of remuneration for medical professionals, which the government has promised. At the same time, the government intends to increase the remuneration of employees working in public administration. I am not saying that it should not be possible for certain high-quality employees working in public administration to raise pay, I just want to say: if health problems are a priority and public health is a priority, then resources should be prioritised in this sector and in this direction, ensuring both the strengthening of the family doctor's institute and the support of young doctors... in the field of funding, appropriate and competitive remuneration of practitioners. This is not done. And then the question is, will the emergency save the situation in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U33	The name of Member Regina Lochmele for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U34	Hello, fellow Members, again! Continuing with the subject just started by Lubova Švecova, I will continue with the answers given by the Ministry of Health not only to my question about research, but also to the request to explain why in Estonia mortality (i.e. how many people die from the total number of infected people) is much lower than in Latvia. The Ministry of Health replied that this is due to the fact that the highest rate of mortality... is observed in the 60+ age group, i.e. people over the age of 60. According to the Ministry of Health, in Estonia the number of vaccinees in this age group is close to 90 percent, in Latvia half of this group has not been vaccinated. To explain this in the normal political language, it could be explained as follows: since the government, over a period of one and a half years while the pandemic continues, was unable to achieve at least 90 per cent vaccination in a group of people over 60 years of age, we are in the second place behind Romania, and that is why several thousand people have died. Moreover, after all the mathematical models offered by scientists, up to six thousand people will die by the new year. So, again...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U35	The debate is over. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U36	All that this frail power can do – to look for someone to blame for their failure and failure. This is one remarkable example that has just been mentioned, namely morbidity and mortality. Even when the vaccination process is just... hadn't started... Last year, I also took comparative data with Latvia and Estonia. When the number of infected people was about the same, we had almost twice the mortality rate – the Estonians were a little over a thousand, we had more than two thousand. The difference between a thousand people, a thousand dead, and this is a real fact that cannot be justified by all that the Ministry of Health is now trying to disprove. It simply shows what this power, its failure and irresponsibility have done, as it has always addressed its problems – simply by putting it on the other side. There is a valid question here. If someone who sits at the steering wheel drives but is unable to drive this car, and because of it, people are killed in a car accident, he is more likely to be judged. Then I ask myself: how should the actions of those who are now on the wheel of power be assessed, but unable to lead it and kill thousands and thousands of people, and the state will be indebted to the unjustified debts of many million? How should their actions be assessed? I hope that Latvia will ever begin to function as a democratic state at the level of state administration, and the previous power will have to be accountable for its work before the next power. Only in this way will we come to the fact that the power in Latvia will finally be responsible, capable and motivated to fulfill our promises and to take care of our people, not their sponsors and their narrow interests.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U37	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U38	Colleagues! Today, the opposition speaks a lot. That's bad. It would be better if one of the coalitions applied for and explained in some way. What needs an explanation (I personally need an explanation) is why this late reaction was allowed, the late error I mentioned before the previous vote, when we announced the state of emergency last time. It was a mistake, and I still believe it was a mistake. And at the moment, a lot of people... Unfortunately, unfortunately, it will be very bad... the consequences. I very much hope that, in the context of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, we will also be able to see what were the decisions that, by the way, I was looking at, by the way, as the Prime Minister explained on television later, the next morning, all tried to explain that everything was right and that a proper decision was made on the state of emergency, when every medical expert said that it was simply a fiasco and refused to cooperate with the government. Who were those... What was to blame for this total error, in my opinion, why are we all in this situation today? Why could they not be seen in September, when the same medical experts said that it was time for action? Everyone ignored them. What was the basis of this disregard? We had all the possible experience, all the facts were on the table. Why such irresponsibleness? Colleagues, this will be a question that I think we also have in the Saeima... and I look forward to the support of other colleagues... we will be able to analyse this situation in an investigative commission. We will have enough information to be able to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U39	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U40	Hello! Hello, Latvian society! Hello, colleagues! I would like to talk about Cabinet of Ministers Order No. 736 and 20 October 2021 748 amending Order of 9 October 2021. 720 Promulgating an emergency. The announcement of the emergency situation, dear people, is the fiasco of the government – Kariņa, Pavluta and all the fiasco. These are people who have not been able to borrow four billion of them, 500 million of whom they seem to have invested in primary health... that is, in the health care system to deal directly with the co-morbids... 500 million who don't! We have 100 beds in two years. We have a minister from the Parisist party, and we have the mayor of Riga City Council from the same – the Parisist party. And Riga is a city where half of Latvia's population lives... The health care system is not helping, it has not been helping, it has begun to fall apart yesterday, because all summer had to be set on the right and left, and it had to get a little bit of a kick. The 1st Riga hospital, which by infrastructure is fully suitable for the treatment of co-morbid patients, is by nature a hospital and not a polyclinic hospital, is not ready for such work today. What did this Stackey do... from the cops? What has he done? You put the vaccinated young people into the locdaun. You have vaccinated young people. Last week, as the leader of the parliamentary group, I had a conversation with the management of the Children's Clinical University Hospital. I asked you how many children have died of the community. That's a cynical question. And the answer, thank God, was no, zero. You fight the disease by locking people at home. Should they have a drink in the evening? Would you sit in sofas and eat chips? And it will be healthier and safer than children do, going into fresh air – groups that are most at risk. You are talking about the need for vaccination and vaccination. Even members of the Saeima - 95 vaccinated - are afraid to go to the Saeima. How much do you want to get vaccinated? All right, 101 percent? This is impossible and never will. You're talking about no Russian audience. So what did Juhveviča do all the time? Was he paid? She needs to drive today is... Even the pensioners have not been told everything. By the way, I recently became ill, and I had a positive co-heavy test. To this day, even knowing that I am a loud member of the opposition, there is no explanation of what I should have done – sleep, walk, warm clothes, what medicines to take or something else. The only question is whether I'm close to Murniece (from the Saeima called). But the protocol that can be sent today with a text message with an operator to be done by a communal patient... There is no such thing. 500 million spent oxygen cylinders that could be used by family doctors for sick people at home have not been bought. There's no such thing. It's all stolen... to the last. You still want to steal this. Then let them steal everything – everything that is, and then let them flee. It treats patients who are being treated here. Not like in Estonia and Sweden, where oxygen cylinders are available, where every patient has a protocol that he/she has to do when he/she becomes ill... and where the mayor also gets involved, not just to shoot flags or strike posts. Please combine the times.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U41	Your times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U42	And let's talk about this. Now it's modern that you're making lists. As at that time, at that time, who then was guilty or not. I would like to remind you: the only ones who have the right to sign, the only ones who have the right to sign! –, is Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš and Daniels Pavluts. They have a signature right. Only the person who has the right to sign may be guilty and liable, and not those who may have an opinion that is different from the point of view of a politician. Our Prime Minister is cowardly and unable to take responsibility. With his signature right, he is only able, in the case of fiasco, to declare a complete locuna for people who do not need to be restricted. Instead, for example, the head of government could offer old people to close... Let us say that the government enters into agreements with supermarkets to supply the elderly with food so that the elderly do not have to stand in the ranks. No, it's seven o'clock in the evening, and it's all clinging to five, six, so that there's a crowd. And that's the crisis management. At the end of October, it appeared that there would be an outbreak in the autumn! Everything (A sound defect.) ... time was those champions. From the time of Viņķelis – the champions of all time. All right, all right! It will borrow two billion more, and so will it (A sound defect.) ... That is the government, and its government is dealing with the crisis in Latvia. And that's true. Unsatisfactory, but true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U43	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U44	Dear President, Dear colleagues, I think today is not the day when we should either talk to the spirits about who is guilty or be happy that they are guilty. It is clear what is to blame, and there is no room for great joy here. I think that today we all need to focus all our time and energy on looking together for a solution to this situation – how to prevent apocalypse in hospitals, how to prevent the complete collapse of the healthcare system. At the same time, of course, how to do all this at a reasonable price for the economy, without going beyond those people who have taken a different position in principle. I think that, in this situation, it is the duty of every Member, as a minimum, to make it very clear to his constituents: paragraph 1 – vaccinate is in their personal interest; paragraph 2 – vaccinate is also in the public interest, because we all live in the same society. We all drive the same roads, we all use the same hospitals. And there's so many beds in hospitals, there's so many nurses and doctors... Why nurses and doctors are so “many”... Is that so? Because all this time we financed this sector in the way we financed it. And if any of my colleagues can't say there... paragraphs 1 and 2, then I will call on these colleagues to follow the next days, perhaps for months just to keep quiet. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U45	I closed the debate. Please, Mr Rancan, will you comment on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U46	On behalf of the Commission, thank you to your colleagues for the debate. Nothing is to be added. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-22-PT13-2307-U47	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On Cabinet of Ministers Order of 13 October 2021 No. 736 and 20 October 2021 748 amending Order of 9 October 2021. 720 “Advertising the Emergency”! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, As a result, we have reviewed the agenda for the remote emergency session of 22 October 2021. The registration of Members' presence is over. I'm closing the sitting.
