ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U1	Dear Members, Honourable Members! We started to discuss the agenda for the fourth remote emergency session on 18 March. I would like to inform you that the Saeima Bureau has convened this additional extraordinary session of the Saeima on the basis of a request addressed to the Bureau of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption to convene such an extraordinary meeting on the agenda, the second reading of the bill ‘Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection’. So we are starting to look at this agenda. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on communicableity Management”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U2	Good evening, colleagues! Today, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption reviewed the draft law that had been returned at its meeting and decided to make changes to this draft law in particular to the Commission's treatment of certain proposals, as well as to draft several of its proposals, on which we will continue to talk. At first, I would explain conceptually that last Thursday, when we spoke, the issue was quite controversial precisely about these remote public consultations, where Members Gat Eglitis and Ulda Budrik's proposals were supported... However, they were rejected at the sitting because of concerns about the nature of these proposals and how human rights would be ensured. I would like to explain a little here in the sitting, Members, that, in the past, the Commission had an alternative proposal that had been sent to us by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, which had also been discussed in part at the meeting of the Commission and which had been supported. Of course, it was a little narrower than the proposals made by Members Ulda Budrik and Gata Eglīks in the Commission. That is why it was Members' proposals that were supported, but these narrower versions, which came from the Ministry and against which there was no objection to either the Legal Office or the social partners or anyone else, were not supported at that time. Then, in view of the situation that investment should not be delayed and that the next draft law in which we could look at this issue could be, at the earliest, next week (and then there is a session break, and after the law comes into force, it will take a month, more), we decided within the Commission that we can include the version prepared by the commission, which has also happened. And in the future, I call for those proposals that we did not deal with to be seen once again, to be seen only in the light of new proposals and those that have not been looked at before. That's why, in the table... It is now about the new Commission proposal, which is linked... This is the 6A proposal in the table, and it is linked to the public consultation set out in environmental legislation at a distance. The Commission's proposal has been endorsed by the Commission. I therefore call for support to be given to Members in the sitting as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U3	Members support the proposal put forward by the 6 A - Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U4	Next. 10.A - The Commission's proposal, too. In connection with this subject, there are already some, slightly more precise details of where and for which the remote solution is applicable. In the Commission, I also call for support here in the sitting. That's...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U5	Members support...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U6	That's 10. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U7	... 10.A - the proposal of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption. Then let's go further from...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U8	Then we go on with those proposals that were in the past... with whom we stayed last time. That was the 20th proposal, which was... So, right now, table... 20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of Members Julia Stepanenko and Lubova Svekov. By the content, it was requested to exclude Article 49.4 of the draft law on the vaccination office. The Commission did not support this proposal in the past but, in the light of recent information from the Ministry of Health that the vaccination office would be reorganised and re-directed as part of the National Health Service, the Commission decided to change its attitude towards it. The Commission therefore supports this proposal and includes it 23. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U9	Thank you. I would also like to inform you all that we have already started the debate on proposal 20 at the third extraordinary meeting on 11 March. Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Viktors Valainis and Eriks Pucens took part in the debate. Members Ivars Zarins and Sergey Dolgopolov had applied for the debate. I call on them, if they wish to debate this proposal now today, to apply to the electronic system. Mr Zarins and Mr Dolgopolov do not currently make use of the possibility to apply as a priority. Member Jūlija Stepanenko has applied, but since Mrs Stepanenko has already debated this proposal once, she is speaking today as the second time - two minutes. Please, Mrs Stepanenko, you have a name.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U10	Colleagues! I will ask you to support this proposal. I see that the Commission has considered this because the Ministry of Health has acted rather strangely, has put forward exactly the same proposals and has sent the draft law back to the Commission only to apply that the Ministry of Health also wants to abolish this vaccination office. However, honourable colleagues and honourable society, the wish of this Ministry of Health is not to abolish the vaccination office, but to restructure it into a different unit and help its colleagues to sit further comfortable and peacefully. This proposal is, of course, welcome. We have fought for this for several weeks already, and we are grateful to those 18 thousand signatories who signed up to ManaBalss.lv for the liquidation of the vaccination office. And, dear signatories ManaBalss.lv, precisely because of your pressure from society, the Ministry of Health has decided on this step. But we need to keep track of the situation, we need to keep track of the fact that money is not wasted, so that no new PR feeds are created. And we will certainly follow it and look accordingly at what is going on with these people from the vaccination office, how they are rewarded and what their job duties are. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U11	Mr John Adamson, the next Member to the debate. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U12	Good evening, colleagues! There is no doubt about the fact that the commission has considered, and obviously also about the immediate reflection of the Saeima, but it only confirms what I have already been talking about in the debate on the request from the Prime Minister - that it is not unfortunately a matter for Members to decide what is going on in our country, but it is a mafiosian body, which also directs everything. In due time... The President of Latvia recently mentioned in one of the interviews that any bystander... We live in a democratic country... Perhaps I was wrong with accuracy, but that was the idea that we were living in a democratic country and that any passer-by could become a minister. In his recent speeches in Parliament, Mr Kariņš had a nostalgia after the Soviet times. Well, that would be apologies. But if we go a little further in history, one of the founders of Marxism said that a marx can also lead a state (comats) as a drunk-bearer, a marque. Unfortunately, our government is going in exactly the same way as it is recovering... But it should be said here that drunkenness is not only an orman but also a chain, here I am thinking of our beloved government. They don't know what to do, how to do it. We have people who are absolutely unprofessional in office. They do not know what to do in a crisis situation, they do not know how to make decisions. But what they can exactly do is arrange things for their own. And in this case, the vaccination office was meant to be set up for only one reason - to set up their own. What will change now because we exclude it from the law? And thank God we can turn it off. Nothing will change in substance. They will be reorganized, incorporated into one of the bodies of the Ministry of Health, while, in principle, maintaining the same remuneration as it is. We cannot even dream of a uniform remuneration system. We're talking about freezing remuneration for public officials, at the same time as the premium system... We look at Riga City Council - from 30 to 100 percent of various types of advisors. Analogous systems also exist in all ministries, where there is a disproportionate reward for some kind of great heroic work. We can continue in the same spirit, but we have to conclude that at the steering wheel of the government... the state is led, the ministry is led by a man whose cannon cannot be released there. He has no understanding of either the budget or the responsibility for using taxpayers' money. Colleagues, this crisis really affects absolutely everyone. I very much hope that the Prosecutor-General, the new Chief of State Police, will have the courage and the duty to stand up for the rule of law in our country, not for the rule of law in the words that are shown to us by the New Conservative Party, but the rule of law in our work. I do not rule out that in the near future, they will once again be caught on all possible sides, in all the mass media, if they do not submit to organised crime by this state. However, I urge you to think about what we are doing, why we are in Parliament, what decisions we make, and finally work for the country and for the people, not for your pocket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U13	The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U14	Good evening, colleagues! I would like to talk a little about Development/About! activities and activities of this Saeima. I hope that all listeners and residents of Latvia pay attention to what “Development/About!” and their ministers. And I hope that this vaccination office is simply their culmination, after which there will be a huge fall and it will come... the responsibility of those who do so. From the beginning we saw that “Development/About!” , starting work 13. In the family... As they imposed medical doctors with finances, followed by administrative territorial reform, used their state of service, released the Riga City Council, the President of the Izkšile City Council, now continues to make full use of their state of service and waste funds. I think that vaccination office is... We should have done it yesterday. It is completely counterproductive to the functioning of the National Health Service, we are simply wasting people's money. We could have directed these funds long ago for other purposes that could benefit people. First of all. If the head of the vaccination bureau was very difficult to find those specialists and so there are so huge wages... I would remind people that the head of the vaccination project receives a maximum of EUR 4905, a process coordinator - 4247, a logistics coordinator - 4247. And so recently we saw how they're doing with logistics that vaccines were not delivered at the given time and day. Of course, you can look for those who are guilty. As Mr Pavilut said, it may be wrong to... Well, but I think at a time of a pandemic, when you from all sides declared that there is a pandemic that people die, there must be responsibility, please, two meters away, do not visit a kindergarten, stay at home, we will reduce you (not hearable.) ... But it's for the sake of human life. I'm sorry, that's total stupidity, manipulation of people. And this is only proven by the fact that it is now trying to integrate its vaccination office into another institution, where the wages are lower. Then I wonder if we are not paying the price now if these same people are prepared to work twice as low a wage. Isn't it that Mr. Pavlut just used his position and gave too... the highest pay for these people. When it comes to these people, as the previous speaker said, it's just being friends. Nobody's thinking about people. I call for this proposal to be supported and completely eliminated... and never come back to these questions. On the other hand, it should be recalled that 18 000 people's signatures have been collected in a very short time. It is also an indicator that we cannot ignore, people hate all these things, as well as its newspaper hates. And we are also waiting for the fair answer of the Pavilata as to how much that paper costs. I call for this proposal to be supported and for the vaccination office to be abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U15	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U16	Dear President, Dear colleagues, I also strongly call for support for this specific proposal. But we understand that, both thanks to public insistence, when more than 19 thousand signatures were collected in the short term... A obvious mistake, which was also recognised by the Minister for Health, Mr. Pavlut... Addressing the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption and making it clear that it has been, to some extent, a mistake - this Office for Vaccination - and that it is precisely the availability of these vaccines that needs to be strengthened (thereby perhaps some of these functions would be passed on to the National Health Service, or otherwise... ), trying to direct these people or this so-called lightning conductor at some other instance. In my opinion, the public, the Latvian society, has made it very clear that they do not support such a vaccination office, which should have been, as we can now read, provided with the functions of recessors, the coordinating functions of recessors, even though the Cabinet of Ministers, the Prime Minister, is subject to the coordination centre of recessors, which should also coordinate such functions with the task of the government. Well, we also understand many other reasons why such a vaccination office was planned. But what we saw was that the plan of vaccination was not from summer, action was more than chaotic, absolutely uncoordinated. We could read a lot from family doctors or medical professionals who had to organise this vaccination process in Excel’s files. The promise is that there will be a vaccine on Monday, on Monday evening, calling and telling you that there is no vaccine. It's Tuesday - moved to Wednesday. On Friday, they say they're still overturned. And such chaos continued throughout the country. Therefore, it was natural for the public to vote on the platform ManaBalss.lv, when more than 19 thousand people made it clear that they were totally against the abolition of such a vaccination office. In my opinion, this also means that - to eliminate, not in any way to create a new unit with astronomically large wages and with absolutely incompetent people in an existing unit. We need to find the best specialists in the National Health Service, the health system as a whole. And with the existing resources we can coordinate this process. There is a focal point for the coordination of the Peresors; there are many apparatus in the ministries so that we can successfully ensure the coordination of this process. After all, there are also enough public statements from the members of the government, from the Cabinet of Ministers, from the Prime Minister, from the Minister of Health, where we are informing about vaccination plans. We do not need to regularly crave the society with the ideas we want, but which are absolutely unreal. People see all this, and therefore people's umbrella on vaccines, when there is such a very chaotic act, I think it is increasing. As at the beginning, when it was possible to order Pfizer vaccines, something that did not happen. Then he found the guilty, one official somewhere on the third level, who is supposedly responsible for this. Therefore, my fellow Members, it is very good that there is such a common understanding, at least in the Commission, that the vaccination office is being abolished, but the elimination really means the elimination, not the creation of a new, swollen unit in another entity, such as the National Health Service. Therefore, colleagues support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U17	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U18	From the information at the disposal of the Members, the following is taking place: the proposal for a formal opposition is being supported, the official vaccination office is being abolished, on paper. In reality, all these people who worked there, including Edgars Labsvirs, are transferred to the National Health Service, perhaps with the same salaries and perhaps with the possibility of still receiving an overtime allowance, so for some hours they work outside their working hours. I have a number of questions in this regard. Question one. Looking at what functions were delegated at the very beginning to the vaccination office and its employees, a large part was directly related to the preparation, distribution and disposal of information to the public space and to every citizen of Latvia. In principle, these are the functions of communication staff and specialists. I have a question about what the press services and people responsible for public relations activities in each ministry and the Cabinet of Ministers in general do in this regard. I think that this is a good subject for Members' request - with full information about the number of people who carry out the functions of dissemination of information and organisation of public relations in our executive power. Let us certainly do that. Question two: How much these features could... and public media or not enough. Why should these functions be assigned to specially established bodies and whether these functions are currently transferred to the National Health Service. Question three: Was it not more advantageous for the public budget to outsource this function of public relations, i.e. to the private sector, which was able to offer both more creative ideas and lower prices in competitive conditions. Perhaps it would have been more advantageous for our budget and for our taxpayers. And next. What is it that controls, how much and how professional all these teams work. So again - Press services of the Cabinet of Ministers, public relations specialists of ministries, public relations teams... to fulfil a specific task. Why should we create special jobs for those functions that have long been planned and that have long been allocated budgetary money. I will certainly prepare the relevant questions and look forward to the answers. The main thing is, whether the new National Health Service staff list... the extent to which this will correspond to the list of staff of the vaccination office to be abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U19	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U20	Let us make clear, first of all, so that there is no illusion. It is not about the liquidation of the vaccination office, it is not being eliminated, it is being reorganised, it is simply hidden under the roof of another. It was made separately as a lightning conductor, so that the power could hide its irresponsibility, so that someone, on the shoulders of it, would now need the office to protect a little, now it will be placed inside one of the structures already in place. There's one interesting thing here. At the very beginning, when this office was established, there were obvious discrepancies, systemic errors that were made in the establishment of this office. That is why we asked the Minister for Health a number of questions: to explain how this office will integrate into the other bodies, what their competences, powers, rights, as it has been agreed, so that this cooperation would not be like a foreign body. Because it was obvious that, as it was created, it would be a foreign body that would not fit into the common system. And that happened. There's a lot of things here. One is purely functional in nature; the other is purely psychological things. Imagine: there is a system that has worked, and suddenly there is a new cell in that system, which contains people who are not competent at all on this issue, have not worked, and these people are told that they will be the ones who will guide you, who will give you orders and who will receive more for it than you - those who have worked there for a lifetime and who have dealt with these issues. It is clear that this puts a fundamental problem in the way of management. This can only be done by incompetent, irresponsible people, and they did so. Go on. In this situation, I have the next legitimate question. If the vaccination office, which was designed to do nothing to duplicate functions, is now included in the existing structures, then the question is: which people will be released from work? It cannot be that there are two sub-units in one unit that do the same, or people who do the same. How will all of this be organised? And if, let's say, no one... if all the reorganisations have resulted in nothing being optimised, not changed, then the question is: what was it about reorganisation? It has not been, by its very nature, a reorganisation. It must therefore be made clear, first of all, that this irresponsibleness and aphorism with the vaccination office continues. It is not because the office is established, but because the office is established, but no meaningful tasks can give it, can not give it, can not organise it, cannot make it accountable to this office meaningful. And the person responsible, as is apparent from the replies given by the Minister of Health, is the Minister of Health himself, because he was directly accountable to him and the office was under his control, under his responsibility. Then there is a valid question for the Prime Minister to assess the competence and responsibility of such a minister for all of this. Secondly, we do not really see how meaningful the resources allocated to this office are being spent. Besides the purchase of beautiful new furniture and computers and now the issue of beautiful, luxurious newspapers... to which answers... on which... You can also meet... received... On the Saeima's website, I think question 195. A very valuable, highly reflective substance, especially for law enforcement organisations. Here I would draw the attention of the prosecutor's office and perhaps also the attention of KNAB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U21	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U22	Thank you, colleagues. It is a pleasure that the governing politicians finally joined our call and the Commission, examining again the draft law "Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the spread of infection", decided also to support our proposal and not to legitimise the vaccination office. It should be said that from its establishment the vaccination office was planned, as is apparent from the letter written by the Minister for Health and submitted to the Saeima as coordinating body to ensure the vaccination process. It follows from the letter that in fact... real all the issues that affect the vaccination process include and... they are provided by the National Health Service. So our assumption - which we have talked about several times before and also publicly, all its communication - is that, in fact, the main purpose and task of the vaccination office was only "Development/About!" PR campaign. And also the funding granted to the service in question shows and proves this. Only EUR 641 805 was the cost of setting up the office itself. A million 320 000 funds were earmarked for individual announcements of citizens or, in simple words, for PR campaigns. 418 500 euros are also planned for the financing of communication activities. All these funds are in fact simple to provide PR shares as such. If we take further research, which in the public environment is that in general there are 72 officials in the Cabinet of Ministers and in the Ministry, whose direct duties include communication and preparation of press releases, and informing the public about this, and the State paid EUR 1 382 400 for this last year, for example, in the remuneration of these officials, then, by pooling the ministry's communication services as well as the funding created and allocated to the office in particular, very impressive amounts are formed. If we look at and add 300 thousand, which was recently accepted by the State Chancellery... The application of the Monitoring Centre, which was respectively in addition to the communication and information activities, as well as, if we look at the last report submitted by the Ministry of Finance, which shows that EUR 3 069 369 has been spent on various information campaigns in general last year and this year, then I do not know what budget has been spent only on information and information, but the real pots and vaccination process itself are stuck and stuck. I am truly pleased that the company joined the protest and, signing the initiative of MyaBalss.lv on the liquidation of the vaccination office, also put pressure on politicians to take a decision on the liquidation of this office, which parasites in fact to state funding, taxpayers' funding, and duplicates the respective obligation of the National Health Service officials. Thank you. I ask my colleagues to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U23	Name to Member Edgar Tavar for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U24	Colleagues! Finally... Finally, we need to understand one thing about this particular proposal, which is similar to the proposals that follow. One is to remove the office, remove it from the law, but in fact it will be abolished when we see that expensive furniture will be loaded in the car, delivered to schools that would need it at the moment, just like computer equipment and equipment - to educational institutions, especially those that are currently most difficult and for which technical resources do not allow for a remote training process, as well as money - tens, hundreds of thousands - which is allocated to this office - will be directed towards medical staff, those who are currently working with patients in the community. Then we will be able to believe that this vaccination office has been abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U25	I closed the debate. Mr Dūris, you applied when the debate was closed. Mr. Rancan, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U26	On behalf of the Commission, there is nothing to add to this proposal. We can go forward safely and watch... if, of course, the Members have no objections.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U27	Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U28	So 21 is the same proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U29	Members support the 20th proposal. Consequently, no vote was requested. Let's go.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U30	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. Identical to the previous proposal. Similarly, it has been supported and included 23. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U31	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U32	Proposal No 22
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U33	I am sorry, so a vote has been requested, but since the 20th proposal has been approved, the Legal Bureau also confirms that it is not possible to vote on the 21st proposal. It shall not be put to the vote. Mr. Rancan... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U34	Okay. Let's go. 22. - An offer from Members Viktors Valaiņa, Edgars Tatars, Jānis Dūklavs and Raimonds Bergmanis. It is also identical to previous proposals - to exclude Article 49.4 of the draft law. 23 Also supported and included. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U35	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U36	There's... Next - 23. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. It is precisely what we have just said that we should also exclude Article 49.4 of the draft law. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U37	Members support... So Members have asked for a vote. This proposal, too, cannot be voted on separately, but is all the same - 20, 21, 22 and 23.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U38	24. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The last sentence of Article 49.4 shall be excluded. Since the whole of this article has already been decided in principle in the past, the proposal is obviously not put to the vote either.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U39	So, yes, this, 24, the proposal is not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U40	Let's go. 25. - the proposal of the Members Roman Money and Raivy Dzint. It is about the Cabinet of Ministers establishing within seven days of the entry into force of these amendments the procedure for the conduct of renewed children's and youth sports classes outdoors and indoors. This proposal has been partly supported and incorporated in 38. - a Commission proposal setting a specific time limit by which the Cabinet of Ministers is to do so. There are not seven days there will be until 31 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U41	Let's start a debate. The name to Member Roman Money.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U42	Hello, colleagues! I would, however, call for this proposal to be supported in the wording that we have tabled with Mr Raivi Dzintara, because what is supported by the Commission is, however,... put together with catering and trade. In my opinion, sport is something different - which is particularly important at the moment - and it is necessary for our children, who cannot do a full-time sport. I still have an unanswered question why, for example, there can't work tennis halls where two athletes could work. It is not a contact game, and from an epidemiological point of view there are no risks, as neither dressing rooms nor showers are used... As well as other sports. Accordingly, in this proposal, which we have prepared, we point out that the particularities of each sport must be respected and, of course, also the regional principle... where the disease is less frequent. Therefore, please support this proposal in the version that it is tabled. We will instruct the Cabinet to develop rules for each sport separately. Accordingly, we, as Members, too... be obliged, however, to take responsibility for allowing children to exercise. Right now, it looks like politicians... The Saeima's Members more so that responsibility goes to the Cabinet - we cannot do anything, the Cabinet decides so. I think that we must make our own decisions and take responsibility for them. Let's let the kids play sports. So I ask you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U43	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U44	Colleagues! Since the proposals of Mr. Moneyiņš and Mr. Dzintars are the first in the table right away... Before we and Mr Schvekov's proposals, I will probably also speak on this proposal and ask for support for Mr Money. Difference from the proposal supported by the Commission... As if it could be thought that, yes, this proposal has been partly supported, we need to be happy about what we have. But what we see is 38. - the proposal supported by the Commission - there is once again a condition 'as soon as the epidemiological situation allows this', another derogation, despite the fact that since 28 January the government, namely the Ministry of Health, together with the Ministry of Education and Science, had received the task of establishing a procedure for the development of renewable sport for children and young people. More than a month has passed, there will be two months now, 31 March will be more than two months since this draft decision was supported unanimously by the Saeima, and thank you for your support. However, the government, as we can see, has done nothing in this regard, and we are once again asking the government to come up with a procedure for the development of renewable sport for children and young people. We are looking at this proposal 38. This is not acceptable. We call for the renewal of children and young people's sport within seven days, which is faster than 31 March, taking into account the particularities of sport and the regional principle. Yes, the 38th proposal also mentions this regional principle, because we simply have our wording in that proposal. However, this reservation ‘as soon as the epidemiological situation allows it’ is disturbing, since, as we have already mentioned, it could have been established on 29-30 January, as long as the Saeima had asked for it. There is no need for special wisdom, specifically studies, to write two pages of order in which children and young people play sport. There's no need for any higher mathematics. It is only necessary to establish strict epidemiological requirements for the arrival of children at the training, the number of square metres needed for the exercise, the way in which disinfection measures are carried out and the way in which contact takes place. That's all. Another, of course, taking into account the particularities of sports... It is not difficult, but we see that the government is not working; the government has done nothing. We are now signing, with the support of only the Commission's proposal, that we simply have nothing to do with us here in the Saeima... We can't do anything. Once again we ask the government to sit down and think that when the epidemiological situation allows it again, we will think again. It is irresponsible and it is already criminal to the health of children and young people. I call on my fellow Members to support this proposal and not to support embarrassment in children and young people's sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U45	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U46	Good evening, honourable colleagues! There's that in sports, if you don't think about the future, about tomorrow, you're already a loser. You can't be in sports and you'll never win. And here too. After the first wave of the pandemic, it took four months to prepare for the second wave. The second wave was expected to be there. Unfortunately, domestic work was not done, and now we are where we are. Five months have passed since we announced the state of emergency in Latvia, and again we are not ready. Two months, as Members have just said, too, how to stand... as a task has already been given to the Cabinet of Ministers. We still don't know what... What is it? We are now waiting for March 31 when something else will suddenly happen. But if on 31 March... Kids... now returns after the vacation from the south and will be followed by the third wave, as the planes begin to fly and people begin to travel. Europe is making its own countries hard, and we have just opened up. But, as I said in the morning, Nils Konstantinov, the head of the Teenager and Youth Psychotherapy Center... he identifies the main mental health problems of young people. He notes in his study that 57 percent of children have learning difficulties, 50.7 percent depression, 45.8 percent obsessive thoughts, 43.3 percent irritability, 42.3 percent excessive use of computers and social networks. Well let children exercise, so that they blow their head out to hurt muscles, then they won't have any stress, they won't have a problem with thinking, which will make them (not hearable.) ... but with a strong view! Thank you. Hope (A Sound Break) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U47	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U48	Good evening! Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to add my voice to what has already been said and call on Members to support this proposal. Firstly, because it comes from coalition; secondly, precisely because the Saeima has already given the Cabinet of Ministers an appropriate task to ensure that sports activities can be outside and indoors under certain conditions; thirdly, because, if we have already allowed children to study outside and schools to deal with it (some Riga schools may only be able to study outside because it is the only available outdoor territory, and yet), then sport should be allowed in any case already now, because not only sports activities, but also training activities are really very much needed for students both to prevent aggression and to communicate, thinking in the positive field, and also because indeed for these... If you can learn outside, you can also do sports. Thank you. Thank you, Mr Znotiņš, for your involvement.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U49	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U50	Dear colleagues, I would just like to remind you that in each meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Minister of Education and Science is speaking and in each OLG group offers versions specifically for the renewal of youth sports and other opportunities for non-formal education. We have gone to the OLG group several times, each time we offer this. What is good is that we have succeeded in achieving a regional principle. Thus, in regions with less disease, there is an opportunity to pursue both formal and non-formal education outside. We already have a lot of teachers who have congratulated this decision and the fact that we have managed to achieve it. There are a wide range of ways to ensure this. Of course, there will always be people who will say that this cannot be done, but it has succeeded, and many teachers also see how this can be achieved successfully, especially in regional schools. However, I would like, and we very much hope and expect this principle from the Ministry of Health - at least 20 out - so that children will be applied to both formal and non-formal education, especially children's sport. So we very much hope that this will soon be possible, and we will continue to submit proposals every week so that the Ministry of Health can also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U51	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U52	Dear President, If we are talking about a specific proposal, then both society, parents and athletes, especially young athletes and sports schools, have long been calling for the opportunity to engage in sports under safe epidemiological conditions, this health protocol. This is vitally necessary. Such a proposal had to come to the Cabinet of Ministers, it had to be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers long ago, in any case not later than the relevant decision of the Saeima - to ask the Cabinet of Ministers to deal with this issue. Now we are coming back here in this particular bill. Yes, the 38th proposal, which is the Commission's proposal, is, of course, incomparably far better than nothing, but the specific proposal sets a certain time until which it should be, and reduces the likelihood of a representative coming out without a clear justification and saying that, no, at present, children cannot play sport again. We have seen a great deal of experience, especially in the field of education, that we will be allowed to come from Thursday. Thursday states that Monday will be able to go... Classes 1 to 6... the first four classes will be able to go to study, but as a result, it is all cancelled at the last moment. Parents are only shocked, students are shocked, teachers are shocked, and so on. What's happening now with a little child... with professional sport, with this professional interest sport... It's the danger that kids are training at the moment. Many of these children also violate the conditions, and let us not hide the fact that we have heard that illegal indoor training is also taking place, where absolutely no epidemiological conditions are observed. It is a natural process, unfortunately. What we can do is we can support this proposal. One meaningful proposal for the Cabinet of Ministers to provide, as soon as possible by that date, the conditions under which children's and young people's sport may be restricted, colleagues. Normal proposal. Let's go! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U53	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U54	Thank you, Head of the sitting. I must note that it is already a good one-off, Mr Znotiņš, to speak in various groups of short names or at the Cabinet of Ministers from time to time. It is possible that, like the Minister's dialogue or non-dialogue with industry, including educators, this communication is not effective enough or is not good enough from the point of view of the system - not from the point of view of the individual idea, but from the point of view of the system. I do not hesitate to refer to the Saeima's decision with an annex... subject to certain principles and conditions which the sport sector itself had developed and can therefore also be complied with. Perhaps you should take this, because this is a task for the Cabinet of Ministers, not only for one minister... take this as a basis, and then the Ministry of Health will probably be able to support it, as it will be formed as a collaboration, not as a single minister every day, either, no matter how often. You are a team, and you should work together, then the sport industry is likely to get real permission to work indoors and outdoors. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U55	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U56	Mr. Znotins! Firstly, thank you for being the first to apply for our joint draft decision on 28 January, we do not forget that. Secondly, this proposal, which we also tabled on our own - it is support for Mrs Šuplinsk. We want to support the Ministry of Education and Science against the very forceful actions of the Ministry of Health, because we also witnessed in the Commission that the Ministry of Health does not want to cooperate with the Ministry of Education and Science and there is no possible synergy - cannot be created. It is therefore also necessary for the Saeima to be able to intervene on the part of the Saeima and to make this matter a priority. Colleagues! How can you view this hypocrisy? ‘ Gold Microphone, “Music Bank”, photos of members of the Saeima Presidium without a mask... We cannot see such conditions anywhere in the Cabinet's orders. We can't see them anywhere. No law, no amendments are made on condition that you can take pictures indoors without a mask. There is no condition that “In Music... “, “Gold in Microphone” can with some tests... So the negative gather together without masks and rejoice. But the kids at the same time... children must strictly observe all the meters, all hand washes and masks, and so on, and they cannot still exercise. What is it? What is it about treating children, colleagues? It's a duality, it's a duality! We see pictures of events, people are happy, but children must sit at home and become depressed. Shame! I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U57	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U58	Hello! Can I talk?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U59	Yes, Mr. Clementyev, but we don't see you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U60	Hello! Can I talk? Somewhere the Internet is hanging out...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U61	We hear you, but we don't see you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U62	Okay, I'll talk. Dear colleagues, The Ministry of Health just points out...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U63	Mr. Clementyev, we don't see you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U64	... to the fact that during this pandemic it is very...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U65	Mr. Clementyev! Mr. Clementyev, we don't see you. Mr. Clementyev, wait a second. We don't see you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U66	... important sport, because it strengthens health. We can get away from her illness or...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U67	We very much hope that Mr Klementyeva will be able to solve the connection problems. Name to Member Raimond Bergman.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U68	The President of the sitting is very respectful.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U69	Mr. Bergman, please open the camera.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U70	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Colleagues!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U71	Mr. Bergman, we don't see you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U72	We have already talked so much about these things and inexplicable things (Not heard.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U73	Mr. Bergman, for one second, we don't see you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U74	... And I really know that the Ministry of Education and Science is fighting for...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U75	Colleagues! Technical break for five minutes. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U76	Dear Members, Honourable Members! We continue the Saeima sitting after a technical break. So there was a debate on the 25th proposal. Member Ivan Klementyev has applied for a second debate. Please, you have a name.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U77	Thank you, Mrs Lībiņa-Egnere. Indeed, technical problems have already occurred more frequently than in the morning during the evening. Well, if we're talking here about how many athletes can go to a square like a hockey square, I want to remind you that the hockey area is 61 to 31 meters, which is a total of 1891 square metres. In the next proposal... offered that 50 square meters per person. Well, it means 50 meters... That means 10 people, 540 people on the hockey field will be, but the team is playing... we know you don't play so much. Makes it possible to play especially on cold ice. Of course, it is important to note that they come to the hall already dressed, without skis, and do not wash the shower, but they can do so. Give permission, and children are ready to do so, and then there will be no need to pay compensation to the owner of the ice hall for the maintenance of the ice. The world championship is coming in the hockey, you need to hold your hand on that we're... will be a strong country in the hockey. So think and work together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U78	Name to Member Raimond Bergman.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U79	Good afternoon, colleagues! Technical problems... It's hard for everyone, including the technicians. I think that children are also difficult, not only for parents, teachers, but for anyone at the moment. And this argumentation conversation is very strange... We try to listen and understand why children cannot play sports. At the moment, it is allowed, as we also hear, and at the moment we ourselves confirmed that decision on 20 children's outdoor training. And only 10... the reasoning was before when the... As I said, these 10 children, that is, 10 people, are easier to trace. Well, then 20. Then we heard the argument that there is also a need to increase the number of outdoor sports children, because these groups are 10 people, but usually there are 12, 14, 15 children in team games in a group of sports schools or in some clubs, so there is a need to increase, not because there are medical risks or some traceability, but this is the number of groups. Now we hear about outdoor training - 20. Why do we not say that we could allow 28, 32 or 24 to learn under all epidemiological conditions? And then we hear from the Sports Sub-Commission the Health Ministry's argument why this cannot be allowed because, it turns out, someone has violated the rules on mountain skiing routes. So we won't let sports outdoors, such as guideers, who can be carried out calmly individually, subject to all precautions... safety regulations, and many other sports, I don't know, rocket model, fishing, shooting, well, I don't know, I can call and call. This resolution of the Council of Latvian Sports Federation has been signed by 94 representatives of the Federations. Well, we approach it in some way and value it for sport under some conditions, not just forbid it, and all without thinking about what's going on. We ourselves see what happens to children. Many, though, have children at home... There shall be no doubt that the conditions This is a big problem. Let's find that opportunity. If we also found a regional principle for training, why not find some form of criteria for each of the sports and allow children to hold a competition in accordance with epidemiological rules and safety? I think it's very clear... Because it's simply monitoring it and managing its crisis... This is confirmed by another example that in the decision approved today “On the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 12 March 2021 No. 163 amending Order of 6 November 2020 No. 655 “Advertising the Emergency”... Well, that's it in a year's time, in a year's time! - is amended as follows: the Ministry of Education and Science should share with the Central Statistical Administration information "on the location of educational institutions, teachers and pupils in order to obtain the data necessary for assessing the additional criteria of the Covid-19 cases in relation to the possible impact on the organisation of educational processes and the appropriate safeguards". A year was needed to be able to share such information? If we want to do something and change something in this country and let children work, then we do something, not... Argument yet... I think, in conclusion, I think this was the last thing I've ever heard... The argument from the Ministry of Health that athletes will celebrate after competitions, if they take place outdoors, outdoors, and therefore do not need to be allowed to do sports. If that's the case, then we're not sure we're ever going to sport in this country at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U80	The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U81	Dear colleagues, I am fascinated by both Ivan Klementyev, the Olympic Champion and Raimond Bergmanis, as well as the Champion. Both of them are looking for common sense, but in a room, also in a dark room, you can find only what there is. But if the government has no common sense, Mr Bergmanis and Mr. Clementyev, you are looking for it in vain. Now children have a holiday. They don't care. They meet because they don't have any lessons. That's logical. The epidemiological safety requirements are not respected - none are under control. A where someone can control, that's what we don't want. Undoubtedly, these proposals must be supported, but I would like to ask a question. I don't know yet. When vaccination started, it was announced that a vaccination should be carried out by the government and VIP officials - no objection - as the reason was for them to be able to work on the spot. The question is very simple to me: why does the government not meet in person? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U82	The name of Member Eric Pucen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U83	Hello, colleagues! This proposal is indeed very welcome, and even if there is one, then, I see that there is also a solution here and that we should take this regional principle into account. Today, when opening the website of the Disease Prevention and Control Centre, we find that we have three regions, so one is in Vidzeme, Jaunpiebalgas novads, we also have Rucavas novads and Durbanes novads, where the morbidity in 14 days is zero. I see that we already have the first three regions that would be ready to return... Perhaps to allow children to exercise and watch what is happening, because if we have already adopted this regional principle in schools, then we can go further and let children go. I also see that professionals need to be allowed to train a lot more, because at the moment there are a lot of halls hard, maneuses hard, but our athletes need to prepare themselves professionally. So I hope that the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavluts, will really take into account, respect this regional principle, look at a map of regional cases, and will also support. That would be all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U84	The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U85	Colleagues! I would like to keep this discussion for a little while. First of all, I would like to emphasise that we must understand that we are indeed the decision-making power, that it is Members who decide on draft laws, that they are progressing. The Cabinet of Ministers is only an executive power. Therefore, if they lack competence, we will help them make wise decisions that are acceptable to their children. In the sports sub-commission one of the counter arguments about individual sports was that really the race can be organized, but there is a huge risk that people after the race... they may have a desire to communicate. Therefore, God does not give us any sort of race. In turn, we allow people to drink alcohol all the time, which also gives rise to a desire to communicate. I would like to say that we need to change the country's priorities and with this proposal we can show the treatment of children, of sport. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U86	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Mr. Zarins, we can't hear you!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U87	What about now? Can you hear it now?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U88	Wonderful, Mr. Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U89	Very good. First of all, I would like to point out to those who follow the sitting that we are decision-making powers only formally. In reality, this Saeima works simply as a blind voting machine. The process of making all these decisions relating to the community demonstrates this. We're just at the last moment... We have draft laws on which we must vote and, in principle, the Saeima vote does not interest anyone. It is already known what it will be, and the Saeima does not, by nature, decide anything, so just legitimize... legitimise the failure of the political cartel and the permissiveness expressed in the decisions that are being proposed to us. If we are talking specifically about this decision, which is about opportunities for children to play sports, I have here a few suggestions for the hippopotamus who make these decisions. So, out of the same principle, which I have tried to explain, it is very important to understand that we will have to live with this disease, we will not be able to get out of it, but that is what we have tried all the time. This is your move that has been in the past, it is possible in the short term. Just like I mentioned an example of a bathroom. You can don't go to the bathroom for a while and as if you don't have to go to this toilet, but later you'll get a fundamental problem for yourself, you just don't know where those panties are. That is what you are currently making with your decisions. If we are talking about children, it is really very important that you think about their psycho-emotional health, because, in principle, that is what will also be the most relevant to whether they will be exposed to the risk of this community and will be exposed to it or not, plus - in parallel to this, there is still a bunch of other problems that will have to be resolved and which, as we can see, are already growing and are difficult to solve. It would therefore be right to look for long-term solutions, that is, how to live with all of this. And how to live up to the principle that is necessary for this government (and here I am addressing my coalition colleagues, especially those working in the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, because you are the ones who make up this first attitude of the Saeima towards government proposals), - ask the experts responsible, ask the Ministry of Health to explain the specific risks of infection in that case or in any other case, for example, when children are working in fresh air with sport. I have to be... I really would like to know with great interest why it is 20 people who need this restriction. Imagine the spring snowfall, the football will start. There are so many people in one football team? And what about 20 people... Is that so? What, you're gonna take a man off every team? Well, it's just the maximum idiotism! It's just one example... purely technical. But in essence, ask for clarification to tell you what these risks are. Yes, some things may not be directly identifiable, there are also indirect features. Ask how many of those who have been infected, who have been involved in sports in fresh air, whether we are talking about halos and the like, respectively, because we need to understand proportionality here. If we cut everything off, then this full-blown bee story comes up. That is what the government is currently flying and does not know where to look. That is why I, my fellow Members, have an invitation. If we are talking about fresh air, then there should be no restrictions at all. On the contrary, we need to think as much as possible about how people can get more fresh into the air, more to move, because it will have a much greater impact on reducing the spread of this disease. If people have enough immunity and they don't become carriers... As it happens now, such a real emotional and physical terror is in principle implemented against its people. As a result, even this obedient nation is gradually revolting and disobeying. Of course, they are not demonstrations; they are not unrestrained, as happens in other European countries, but here too we are already hearing such a timid, dissatisfied muling when a crowd can begin to become disobedient. A feeling that the government is simply seeking to make the nation as weak as possible, less comfortable to manipulate. We see this everywhere - in health, in health, in education, and now in sport. Therefore, colleagues (I am addressing colleagues in the coalition once again) just ask the people who are offering you these proposals, on which you will decide, to try to go into the ground. In other words, kids, learn physics! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U90	The name to Member Roman Money for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U91	Colleagues! We had a very interesting discussion with representatives of the Ministry of Health at the Subcommittee on Crafts and Small Business of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, which fully confirmed that they were prepared to examine the issue of indoor training in particular by sports, assessing the particularities of each sport. Given that we have relatively new training rooms across the country, sports halls that have very good ventilation, even better than in schools than in kindergartens, then I don't see anyone... The representatives of the Ministry of Health also confirmed that they do not see problems, if regulated training also took place indoors. Individual workouts - just as we had a short time ago. Let us therefore ask the government to address this issue. The representatives of the Ministry of Health are ready to get involved, all federations already have practical rules, how they see it, how children could resume training indoors, individual training more. In this way, we would bring the children back to sport. We all know that physical activity promotes lung function, promotes immunity, and this will directly reduce morbidity and create a healthy society for us. Please, colleagues, support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U92	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U93	By completing the thought I made at the end of my own speech: “Children, learn physics!” Given that not everyone has learned this, I will explain what I meant. So, in my opinion, fundamentally wrong is the move that the government is currently taking, that is, it's trying to determine the number of people, the number of square meters. It's not really working, and it's not... it does not reach the goal, because, as Mr. Moneyins rightly pointed out, this is not the area of this story, but the quality of the air. The government imagines, for some reason, that they will be able to achieve air quality when setting the ratio between the area and the people. That is absolutely not the case. It's like... try to determine this correct area of square meters - this is about the same as trying to buy the right computer by weight. It's about as absurd. It is really important to talk about air quality and how this air quality can be measured. It is clear that we cannot install (it will be expensive) devices which will catch, where there is a community and how much concentration there is, whether these are associated values that show how much people already have, let us say, saturated with their aerosols. That is, say, the composition of the gas, even the amount of CO2. Perhaps this may be the criterion that we are simply setting out: that these premises should have some criterion, the CO2 criterion. It can be not only sports medicines; it can also be restaurants, hotels and the like. If they meet this criterion, people may be there if they do not, then they cannot be there. It may be at least or as a tell-tale that controls this level at all times in order to provide the necessary ventilation. Whether it is provided in a mechanical or natural way, but in this way we achieve the possibility that people in these premises can be relatively safe. I call on the government to think about this and to make sensible decisions based on physics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U94	The name is Rainis Znotiņš for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U95	Colleagues! I don't want to, let's say, a little negative about Mr. Money, but I have to answer. What Mr. Moneyins offers, individual sports classes in the hall and so on... Every previous... For several weeks in a row, the Ministry of Education and Science in the Operational Steering Group has proposed this version. Individual sports classes, such as tennis, where there are many square meters in the premises, each person on his/her side of the tennis card. Unfortunately, the answer from the Ministry of Health is simple - no. We ask for an explanation of what needs to be done, what these criteria are. The answer is simple - no. However, I must say that this will not stop us. This will only motivate us to continue to provide, to ask, if necessary, to ask publicly, until we reach this goal, until the Ministry of Education and Science achieves that sport will be allowed outside, and sport will be allowed indoors, especially for young people and children. This is a very important objective. We see and actively follow and discuss with Nil Constantinov and other experts on psycho-emotional health, including physical health. And now, I think, very cynical... and maybe here should be assessed the responsibility of the Minister of Culture for the Golden Microphone event, where there is no problem collecting several artists, even 10 artists on stage, without masks... and to publicly demonstrate it all while children are to sit indoors until children are allowed to exercise. It's just cynical. Therefore, the Ministry of Education and Science will continue to ask and ask until, hopefully, the Ministry of Health will hear us and let children play sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U96	Thank you. I closed the debate. Mr. Rancan, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U97	Thank you, colleagues, for the bright and broad debate. I would, however, call for this proposal not to be supported and voted in favour of the Commission's 38th proposal because, given that there is no... There may be chaos there, and we'll get another third time back... or for the second time this draft law to the Commission. I call, however, for a vote as a commission... To vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U98	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 25. - the proposal tabled by Members Roman Money and Raivy Dzintara! Please vote mode! For - 55, for - 21, for - 10. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U99	Colleagues! Next - 26. - the proposal of Members Julia Stepanenko and Lubova Svekov. It is, in substance, identical to the previous proposal. The Commission also partially supported 38. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U100	This proposal is identical, as pointed out by the Legal Office, to the proposal which has previously been voted and supported and cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U101	27. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. The content is that within seven days of the entry into force of the amendments, the Cabinet of Ministers provides an opportunity for children and youth hockey classes to be reinstated indoor by providing for the fulfilment of specific requirements of the relevant health safety protocol. In part, supported by the Commission, 38 were included. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U102	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U103	Dear colleagues, The hockey cannot wait until the Cabinet has come up with rules. The Hockey Federation of Latvia has coordinated this proposal and has itself encouraged certain restrictions that they can respect. These restrictions are: so not less than 50 square meters per child, coming to training in full equipment. Yes, strong mothers, while fathers work, or only fathers, while mothers work, appoint these children in a full - time car and take them to a workout. Take it out and take it to the training. If this happens, it may also be in full equipment, if necessary, without the use of dressing rooms. Except, of course, slippery. Also, separate places with a long distance between each other have been prepared for skiing, so you don't need to use the wardrobe... So without the use of dressing rooms. Why is a hockey in this case another separate question? Because we have no guarantee that the Cabinet can figure out... can stick to a hockey as the first sport, but a hockey is important in this case, that children simply no longer have a place to do a hockey. If, in winter, it was still possible to provide the area in some way, then now - well, today's snow is up, tomorrow everything will go out - there is no chance to do a hockey. These options are completely blocked, completely. So one of the sports that is suffering the most at the moment is a hockey. Therefore, together with the Latvian Hockey Federation, we are calling for this proposal to be supported and not to wait for 31 March, but to ensure faster compliance with specific requirements. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U104	Honourable Members! It's time for a break. The system also needs to exert pressure. Only the registration of Members. Please all leave this system after it, and at 20.00, when the sitting will resume after the break, you will be able to log in again. So there's a record of the presence of Members. It's been a success. Interruption until 20.00. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U105	Good evening, dear colleagues! We continue our work - see the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” (No. 933 Lp13) for the second final reading. We are on proposal 27. The debate was conducted by Member Romanas Nadiņš. Your name. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U106	Welcome again, colleagues. We know how much hockey is popular sports in Latvia, and it is also a very special, specific sport that needs ice. Not only for hockey, but also for figure skating, for example, or for curling. That is why this proposal tabled by the opposition is, in my opinion, very good and very precise, and very concrete, that training can take place for children, given that there is one child on the area of 50 square metres. In essence, these are individual trainings, which, for us too recently, a year ago, had happened, but unfortunately stopped, and now all ice halls in Latvia are closed. The Hockey Federation of Latvia has developed very detailed how hockey training can take place. I'll tell you a little bit about it, too. I don't know if you can see it. Here is a hockey area that would be divided into six zones, and these would be three zones. Then, in the middle, we take off a strip that creates six zones. One zone is 294 square metres, the average zone is 224 square metres one zone. Then imagine how big the square is in six areas where individual training would take place. The Hockey Federation of Latvia offers guidelines on the basis of which training would take place. The minimum number of square metres per participant should be 50 square metres, the duration of the training should not exceed 45 minutes, the minimum break between individual trainings is 15 minutes. In the organisation of training at stations, strict attention must be paid to ensure that within stations and areas students and trainer do not move between themselves, either by changing stations or during the exercise itself. Work at the station for one group - six to seven minutes, work for a student at the station - four times 30 seconds with a double rest break. Carefully note that only individual work with each student is taking place, completely without contact with each other. The coach explains the exercises and analyzes their performance. Groups must not cross between trainings. Puppies to hockey training arrive in semi-full equipment - properly dressed, without skis - for skis can be put in hockey hall, where there would be numbered places with a distance of two metres. And then kids can go skate, practice. In my opinion, the hockey hall has almost the best ventilation systems, without which the hockey hall could not function at all, the quality of ice would not be possible, so I think the risk of disease is very, very small. Of course, it can never be ruled out, but it is definitely much smaller than the public transport in Riga, which is crowded with people. We know that, when the epidemic began, there were very many cases in the hockey, but have you heard of such cases now? Hockey has followed the recommendations of the epidemiologists. In the past, hockeys drank from one bottle, drunken among the shifts, now everyone has their own bottle, people keep their distance, showers don't go, and dressing rooms are adapted to have as much distance between people as possible, but this is the case for professional gambling. Here in the baby hockey, we're not talking about showers or dressing rooms. We are talking only about getting a child into the hockey hall alone, sitting in their numbered place, wearing skis and helmets, going to the square and training with the trainer in their area. Colleagues! Here, in my opinion, with regard to the hockey, it is very precise everything that has been said, in detail. The Federation has done a huge amount of work and, if we support it, it can also be accepted immediately and children can resume their training. Ice hall will also be able to restore work. We will not have to finance taxpayers' money, subsidise the business of ice hallers, as they are now closed and require state aid. Therefore, colleagues, support this proposal and allow the hockey to resume in Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U107	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U108	Thank you, Mr Moneyins, and it is good that you have also tabled, together with Mr Dzintara, the 25th proposal, which is obviously more complete, and fortunately the majority of the Saeima has already supported it. I am glad that the Saeima does not release that one sport is in some way better than another sport, does not oppose. The proposal 25 deals with all sport and logically also hockey. In order not to create duplication of rules, this proposal must be rejected because 25. - The hockey is already supported. If in the case of the Latvian Hockey Federation it seems - something is wrong, then it is safe to go to Sanda Riekstins, the Head of the Sports Sub-Commission, who will also consider what amendments would still be needed in addition to the 25th proposal. Thank you. I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U109	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U110	Colleagues! I do not believe that this proposal conflicts with the previous proposal, which was supported, especially in view of the fact that we have now asked the Cabinet to think about all sports, given the particularities of sport, but we are not sure whether there is a sufficiently good understanding of the needs of sport in the Cabinet. And this proposal... In particular, we are talking about a hockey that is very, very... which is currently very much in need of support, and this is an emphasis on the particular sport. It's not a priority, Mr. Feldman! You yourself very well understand that children are now denied the hockey completely. If the kids can still play football while the snow melts. Yeah, my kid, too... on such a field playing football because he's very... he loves this sport very much. But at the moment the hockey kids can not play at all in any way. It's also... That is also the essence of this proposal. We cannot be sure - and I will repeat - that the Cabinet of Ministers will have an awareness of the fact that it is necessary to start with a hockey, starting with those sports that really demand attention at the moment. Therefore, I do not believe that this is a conflicting norm. This provision merely highlights the order in which we should start with sports. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U111	The name of Member Eric Pucen. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U112	Hello, colleagues! Indeed, it is a great pleasure that colleagues have tabled such a proposal, and there are also very well-founded arguments here. Thank you, Mr. Money. But I just wanted to respond a little to Krišjānis Feldman's reply to the Sports Sub Commission when someone has to go and pray. We know this commission takes place early in the morning, and there's mostly no time... Members of the European Parliament will be given the opportunity to speak. Well, this commission is so short... All members of the Sports Sub-Commission are very well aware of this. Perhaps we need to move this sub-committee away from time to time and we can discuss much more and longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U113	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U114	Thank you. Colleagues, we had only 27 sports sub-commissions in two years. Every calendar year is 54 weeks, so one meeting... You know how... So that we can gather and gather together, speak and speak. No one may refuse to meet again after two, after three, if the sub-committee has a wish, if there are letters, if there is a problem. That's one. Second. But with such strict restrictions, we also... suspect it's dangerous... Well, honourable Members, let us prevent people from walking at all through the trotary - it is very dangerous because maybe five percent of them use masks just as they walk through the trotaries. Others all walk without masks - which is dangerous, and they go half a meter away from each other. Don't let them walk around the trotary so they just move by car, behind the glass and still in the masks, just let's... You don't have to do that! We already had athletes participating in competitions, both abroad and in Latvia, playing national teams. And I've heard something that people are sick at both the biathlon World Championship and the World Championship skiing, so that's not the way... because they comply with all the rules that are necessary. Don't get crazy! We just need to live, we need to follow those rules. Now it reminds me about the early 1980s, when a disease like echo appeared in the world, he also said, "Oh, all athletes used one toothbrush to clean their teeth! Well, there was such a real anecdotes about athletes. Also here today. Every sportsman, if he wants to play sports, if he wants to take part in competitions, he knows what he needs to follow. So that's... And he's from one bottle, long ago, don't drink... So let's let me do it. Yes, every federation needs to lay down its own rules, let us agree. But when I was told that in the Riga National Sports Manor you can't play sports, the empty hall is standing... Ten people can't go sports? Why not? Every hour of 10 people let go, and everything to sports can do. No, you can't! Well, let's think further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U115	I closed the debate. Mr Rancan, please comment on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U116	Thank you, colleagues, for the debate. I will call, of course, for this particular proposal not to be supported. More precisely, it is true to my colleague, Krišjānis Feldman, that the 25th proposal has already addressed this problem. I therefore call for this proposal to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U117	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 27. - The proposal by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please, let's vote! For - 33, for - 39, for - 13. The proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U118	28. - the proposal from Members Kaspars Ģirgens, Māra Možvillo, Ralfa Nemiro, Ieva Krapāne, Ivars Pugas and Erika Pucen. It is foreseen that the Cabinet of Ministers shall, within one week of the entry into force of these specific amendments, determine the arrangements for ensuring the restoration of the operation of all trading venues in accordance with the concept of safe trade. Partly supported by the Commission. Incorporated 38. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U119	Let's start a debate. The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U120	Good evening, colleagues! I would call for the 28th proposal to be rejected and for support to be given to 30, which is identical but improved version of this, 28. We are unable to withdraw it from the Commission because the e-signature did not work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U121	I closed the debate. The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U122	Further 29. - the proposal by Members Karina Sprūde, Julia Stepanenko and Lubova Svekova. It is foreseen that the Cabinet of Ministers shall, within five working days of the entry into force of these amendments, determine the arrangements for ensuring the restoration of the operation of all trading venues in accordance with the concept of safe trade. In other words, the proposal is the same as that of the previous one. The Commission was, of course, partly supported and included 38. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U123	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U124	Colleagues, I just wanted to point out that the previous proposal could not be withdrawn by one Member, Možvillo, because it was signed by several Members. I call for support for this proposal because, since we have supported sport in proposal 25, it would be logical to support each sector individually accordingly. Because the 38th proposal, as we know, is under worse conditions, Mr Možvillo, than the one that you have proposed and that we have proposed, because, firstly, it gives the Cabinet a longer time to think and decide, and secondly, the Cabinet of Ministers still has the opportunity to take into account this... resubmit to the epidemiological situation. Since it is not any improved version, Mr Možvillo, it is a worse version - proposal 38. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U125	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U126	Hello! Once again, I would like to talk about the procedure, if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U127	Please apply for a procedure. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U128	When it comes to the previous proposal, that is to say, the 28th proposal, when Mr Možville was debating. According to the arrangement we have in the Saeima, he could not withdraw himself. — Sound Break. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U129	Dear colleagues, Let's get back to work! The technical problem has been addressed. That is why we are returning to the 28th proposal. The vote has been requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 28. - the proposal from Members Gürgen, Mozhville, Nemir, Krapan, Pugas and Pucen! Please, let's vote! For - 18, for - 38, for - 5. The proposal is not supported. We stayed at 29. - the proposal of the Members of the Commission, Mr Stepanenko and Mr Svekov. During the debate, Ms Stepanenko spoke. Does anyone else want to speak in the debate on the 29th proposal? Please log in. Members do not want to debate. No vote required. The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U130	Thank you, Mrs Beitneres-Le Gallas, but I still... I remember asking for a vote in the debate. So I am asking very much for a vote in favour of our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U131	Yeah. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 29. - To the Members of the Scrape, Stepanenko and Svekov's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 30, for - 49, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U132	30. - The proposal from Member Māra Možville. The essence of this is that the Cabinet of Ministers is asked to prepare amendments within a week and to develop this specific concept, which would allow the sale on the spot. Partly supported by the Commission, included 38. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U133	Let's start a debate. The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U134	Good evening! Perhaps I will start by saying my apologies for my diction, and I will try to speak more slowly and in more letters in the future so that Mrs Stepanenko can hear that I did not call for the proposal to be withdrawn, but instead vote against 28. Then about 30. This proposal is an improved version of the 28th proposal, because we supplemented with certain things that we thought were important. We have clarified the terminology and put the things that are currently worrying to us. In the first part, where we want the Cabinet to develop the order in which shops with an area of up to 300 square metres could be reopened. And this is very important in rural areas, where these shops cannot currently operate in full. People’s wisdom has developed their own system of getting to the desired goods. And unfortunately, this system of people's fiction is working to limit people's assembly. It is very simple that when a person came to the door of the store, he called on a telephone, located almost five feet [5 m] behind the door. The seller raises, accepts the order, and after five minutes the buyer can enter the store and receive his order. He has already been able to exchange all the latest news in the city with the same waiters and callers at the door. It is therefore necessary to review this procedure, however, as we allow the shops to work. Talking about the second part, where is... We believe that it is also necessary to change this order how specialised shops can be opened, because, by ordering boots and, forgive me, condoms on the Internet, you know about what you get by size, view and performance, but let's take a piece of expensive farming technique that could make up tens of thousands, unfortunately, the above parameters are not suitable. And here you sometimes need the customer's own presence in the store so you can choose the product. Unfortunately, this is now being denied. Sometimes shoppers do this phone... the principle of calling, because, unfortunately, such a system is currently working. As I will call on my colleagues to vote in favour of this proposal, as spring is approaching, sowing work is approaching, and great steps are coming in the lives of farmers, which actually determine their performance in the autumn. So thank you for your attention. I would like to call on my colleagues to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U135	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for 30. - The Member's proposal, Mr Mozhville! Please, let's vote! For - 54, for - 21, for - 4. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U136	31. - The proposal by Member Karina Scratch. It is planned that within seven days after the entry into force of this Law, the Cabinet of Ministers shall supplement the range of goods sold on the spot with all types of bicycles, taxis, roller skates, including electric taxis and similar items. In the Commission, this proposal has been partly supported, incorporated 38. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U137	Let's start a debate. The name to Member Karin Scratch. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U138	Colleagues, thank you (I can't hear.) ... told me. But what did I want to say with my proposal, why am I heading for it at all? I would like to draw attention to the fact that all this time the Cabinet of Ministers, both in the social media and in all its... setup... calls on people not to use public transport because there's such communication and people can't be two metres away... Therefore, the question arises: what can we offer to these people in return? Well, obviously, from Adaži to Jugla, man's feet won't be so fast... or from Jugla to Zolitūde. It's not that people work in their settlements. There are many sleeping areas in Riga, where people use local infrastructure, visit schools, but they still have to move to work in some way. As the time will be warm in the near future, a further two or three weeks ago this issue was very topical. Entrepreneurs and ordinary people also called, asked how to buy wheels on the spot so that they could sit down and have the right size, geometry... arrange everything for themselves to be convenient in motion and to be able to support the Cabinet's call not to use public transport. In turn, we see what happens in the Riga City Council that the decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers are not supported by the Transport Department of the Riga City Council - they do not make additional flights, they do not benefit them, it is not profitable. But where is its profitability when it comes to human health and life. Therefore, I think my call is very topical, not only because of the Cabinet of Ministers' call. The Latvian tourism development action plan has just been prepared. There, we can see a lot of plans that relate precisely to the development of infrastructure in EuroVelo... 8, 10, 11 and 13, if I'm not wrong. A study on the development of the Latvian stage of the EuroVelo network was also commissioned by the Ministry of Economics, where it is very... set out, tell us what bikes we have, how much has been invested. I think this study is very good. And there we can also find statistics on the number of bicycles sold. Statistics have been compiled since 1993 and a total of 537 751 bicycles have been sold in Latvia over the last 14 years. This means that every fifth person has a bike. These data are not available for previous years, but also before 1993 bicycles were purchased, which people are still driving. I call on colleagues to support this proposal because there is no danger that people will come to the store and buy wheels, but on the other hand they will become healthier, there will be no crowding in public transport, there will be many shops... there are already examples of examples of shops where people can come (it is outside) and look around. I can't see any problems permitting... Even yesterday, but it's clear that in seven days... I would like to ask for support from my colleagues so that people can actually buy their wheels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U139	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U140	Yes, colleagues, if we supported Mr Možvillo's proposal, which contains specific items, then this proposal is also welcome. Then it would be purely logical. I would like to say to Mr Možville: yes, you are right, indeed, sorry. I have listened again: you have not withdrawn this proposal. But it would really be worth speaking or writing in larger letters, because the editors will have to correct this proposal, which we supported, proposal 30. The last paragraph contains errors at the ends. So please note that a little will have to be corrected. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U141	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 31. - The proposal by Member Karina Scratch! Please, let's vote! For - 29, for - 47, for - 8. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U142	32. - The proposal from Member Māra Možville. It is foreseen that within one week of the entry into force of these specific amendments, the Cabinet of Ministers establishes the procedure for the epidemiological safety rules for providing public catering with the possibility to provide services on outdoor terraces. Partly supported by the Commission, included 38. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U143	Let's start a debate. The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U144	Good evening! Dear Speaker of the Saeima sitting! Analogously, as with proposal 28, I ask my colleagues to vote against this proposal and to support 33, which is also a group proposal and which is acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U145	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 32. - the proposal from Members Gürgen, Mozhville, Nemir, Krapan, Pugas and Pucen! Please, let's vote! For - 12, for - 55, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U146	33. - The proposal from Member Māra Možville. It is envisaged to supplement the draft law with an article which provides that the Cabinet of Ministers shall, within one week of the entry into force of these specific amendments, lay down the procedures for the epidemiological safety rules for the provision of outdoor catering services. In part, supported by the Commission, 38 were included. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U147	Let's start a debate. The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U148	Yes, thank you for your word. I call on my fellow Members to vote in favour of this proposal because we believe that the spring is approaching and catering has all the rights and conditions required to ensure safe outdoor meals. Thank you. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U149	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 33. - The Member's proposal, Mr Mozhville! Please, let's vote! For - 59, for - 19, for - 2. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U150	34. - the proposal by Members Karina Sprūde, Julia Stepanenko and Lubova Svekova. In essence very similar to the previous one, it is only envisaged that within 10 days of the entry into force of these amendments, the Cabinet of Ministers should develop procedures for the provision of outdoor catering services. Partly supported by the Commission, included 38. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U151	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U152	Colleagues! It is very difficult to keep track of the time, but there is a little competition here between the proposals. I will explain where the problem lies. Yes, our proposal provides for a few days longer period for the Cabinet of Ministers to sort it out, but our proposal does not lay down a procedure for the Cabinet of Ministers within one week, but within 10 working days of the entry into force of these amendments to establish the procedure for ensuring the functioning of catering service providers by allowing the provision of catering services in outdoor spaces in accordance with the health safety protocol. Our proposal, in my view, is a specific task for the Cabinet of Ministers to allow within 10 working days - already allow within 10 working days... after 10 working days from the entry into force of these amendments, the Cabinet of Ministers must authorise outdoor catering, subject to all regulations and in accordance with the procedure established by the Cabinet. I therefore urge you to vote in favour and support our proposal because this proposal is much more specific and already provides a specific task to allow catering workers to work at a certain time. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U153	I closed the debate. Please call me! To be put to the vote on 34. - To the Members of the Scrape, Stepanenko and Svekov's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 29, for - 50, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U154	Next. 35. - the proposal by Members Karina Sprūde, Julia Stepanenko and Lubova Svekova. It is foreseen that the municipality provides a one-off premium for technical staff of pre-school educational institutions in the amount of 30 per cent of the monthly salary not later than 1 May 2021. This proposal is not supported by the Commission. The debate showed that it was not fully understood from which means the municipality could pay such a premium and that therefore it was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U155	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U156	Colleagues! I would like to draw attention to the fact that, despite the fact that teachers and support staff from pre-school institutions have allegedly received this promised EUR 300... But it turned out that it was only the half that came to the teachers. But here is the question of technical staff, who did not receive anything at all, even though they have to go to work, they must also contact children who, in the opinion of some epidemiologists, are particularly infectious, as we hear and read. So if it is considered that this risk is high, then these people must also receive support, because many of them are at risk and are subject to increased pressure, taking into account the frequent changes in all these regulations. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U157	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 35. - To the Members of the Scrape, Stepanenko and Svekov's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 25, for - 50, for - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U158	Next. 36. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. It is planned that within 10 working days from the date of entry into force of the amendments, the Cabinet of Ministers shall prepare the necessary amendments to the regulatory enactments in order to determine an assistant's salary of 80 per cent of the state's minimum wage. This proposal is not supported by the Commission. I remember the debate, there is an increase in salaries for these assistants, in my opinion, if I remember correctly, 23 million for these objectives by July, so this proposal was not supported by the Commission either.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U159	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U160	Colleagues! I just want to remind you that, yes, the Commission's debate and the Commission's promises to clarify the matter accordingly... As several facts have shown, many parents who are assistants to their children have dropped this reward, and it is really urgent to address this issue. Urgently, not waiting for July or something else. But I also look forward to Mr Rancán and the Commission's support in this matter, because it is in this draft law... This draft law is what tackles this problem, not the previous one that we have seen today - the draft law on the management of the consequences. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U161	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 36. - The proposal by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please, let's vote! About - 33, against - 52, abstaining - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U162	Next. 37. - the proposal by Members Karina Sprūde, Julia Stepanenko and Lubova Svekova. It is planned that the Cabinet of Ministers will report once a month to the Saeima on the epidemiological security threats related to the spread of Covid-19 infection and on the impact of decisions taken by the Cabinet on Covid-19 morbidity indicators and the economy... and that the Saeima recognizes this particular law as null and void by a separate law. This proposal is not supported by the Commission. Of course, there was a rather hot debate for us for one moment. It is not supported because this information about restrictions is available, it is regularly provided from all parties, and currently the law provides that the Cabinet of Ministers provides this kind of report every three months.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U163	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U164	Colleagues, the difference between the current situation and what we offer is that the Cabinet of Ministers should, however, provide this information more often - not every three months, but once a month. And yes, this hot debate, mentioned by Mr Rancán, is because there is a disagreement. So the coalition, also in the face of Mr. Rancāns, believes that there is enough correlation between the decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers and the damage that these decisions cause. But, as we also heard today in the debate with the Member... At the request of members of the opposition, it is clear that there is no correlation. I have also shown in the debate, by setting a concrete example, that there is no such correlation and no conclusions have been drawn from previous mistakes. I would like to say to Mr Rancan that I watched... I have listened to all the meetings of the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission, where you have heard reports from the Cabinet of Ministers. I have no accusations against the Commission's leadership or against the work of the Commission, and I have, like my colleagues in the opposition, a desire to see concrete conclusions, not separate tables - we have damaged this, we have damaged it, and we have become sick of this - but concrete conclusions that indicate that a particular ban has caused such and such consequences, and corresponding conclusions that simply then deny such a... relying on some success or fantasy to decide on current restrictions. That's it... That is all we want. We want to have greater responsibility for these restrictions and for the conclusions to be visible to the decision-makers themselves (as we think they do not see and understand them at all) and to the society that suffers from them. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U165	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 37. - To the Members of the Scrape, Stepanenko and Svekov's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 31, for - 53, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U166	38. - Commission proposal. This has been mentioned so much, with each of the previous proposals almost. It provided that by 31 March of this year the Cabinet of Ministers should draw up a procedure or rules on how to safely restore children's sports, trade and catering services. The Commission was, of course, in favour, because it is a proposal from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U167	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, John Adamson. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U168	Colleagues, I have only one question (and that is more about the procedure): do we not need to reassess and vote in parts because we voted there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U169	Mr. Adamson, we didn't see, but we heard. We have consulted the Legal Bureau and, if the Members request a vote, then all the decisions taken coincide as necessary. Member Krišjānis Feldmans has applied for a motion to debate. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U170	In such simpler words, I will ask for this proposal... Given that we have already voted very many good things in previous proposals, and in order not to create unnecessary misunderstandings, we are voting calmly against this proposal, nothing will happen. Good things have already been done. I call for a 'no' vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U171	I closed the debate. Please call me! I am sorry, the debate is continuing. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U172	I'm sorry. I would like to remind Mr Feldman that one very important proposal on the resumption of trade was, in my opinion, not voted. There are proposals by Mr Možville on the resumption of trade... up to 300 square meters, but this is not a common conceptual proposal, so I do not know if we can currently reject 38. But I understand your idea, I would also like to vote against, but for trade, I think we have not fully secured everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U173	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 38. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption! Please, let's vote! For - 49, for - 29, for - 8. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U174	Thank you, colleagues. Over 40. ... 39. - the proposal by Members Karina Sprūde, Julia Stepanenko and Lubova Svekova. The Cabinet of Ministers shall determine, within five working days from the entry into force of these amendments, the procedure for reinstatement of children's classes in dance, music and singing. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U175	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U176	Colleagues! Not only sport, but also music, dancing, singing requires definitely attention. And here I will call on you to support this proposal, and I will also call for the abolition of this humiliating rule introduced by the Ministry of Health as regards enforcement... the necessary tests if children need to be present at the consultations prior to the examinations... singing, dancing and music classes... or when playing wind instruments. In my view, such a requirement is totally unacceptable given that it is possible to ensure the necessary distance because it is individual lessons. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U177	I closed the debate. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 39. - To the Members of the Scrape, Stepanenko and Svekov's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 30, for - 46, for - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U178	Over 40. - the proposal by Members Karina Sprūde, Julia Stepanenko and Lubova Svekova. Provides a task to the Cabinet of Ministers within five working days of the entry into force of these amendments to carry out a service test on mask purchases. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U179	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U180	Colleagues! Before we turn to the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Latvia for this purchase, I think that we could give the Government the opportunity to investigate this issue itself, because the parents of children who currently use these masks, which have been purchased from SIA “SOLUTIONS”. This procurement must certainly be checked as regards the compliance of masks with documentation and consumer safety, because we have found that these masks... behaves very strangely after several washes and is not intended for 30 washes, since, at 60 degrees, the masks start to rot. Its dragons can enter the airways. By contacting the Consumer Centre and the Disease Prevention and Control Centre, parents were recommended to remove these masks from their children... not giving these masks to their children. If we're... you have bought these masks, which are harmful to children when paying for their public funds, then, in our view, it is necessary at least to carry out a service test, if not - of course - the law enforcement authorities involved in this matter. I would really like to understand whether any coalition has something against the test of service. We have found that this verification of service can be encouraged by the Head of Government. There have been such precedents, and this would be a relevant task for the Saeima to carry out a service test for the Cabinet of Ministers. Of course, we would also like to see results reported to us. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U181	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U182	As was evident from the very beginning of the crisis in this community, the authorities are using this emergency not only to care for society, but also to be able to carry out questionable transactions under the cover of this emergency. The first to which we have already drawn attention was the purchase of respiratory equipment, as well as masks, but the most legendary is, of course, the purchase of TITLED Respirators Ltd., where there was an analogous situation, where, under special conditions, in violation of the legal requirements, an unreasonably large amount of respiratory equipment was purchased exclusively from the company, which was unable to produce any supporting documents that this product would be appropriate. And as it turned out later, it was so direct that it was also inadequate. Now, it looks like a similar situation arises with masks. Unfortunately, in this whole story, it can be seen that the power itself is not interested in responsible action, the competent action, even more so, in its situations... that, indeed, what situation should be investigated, as was the case with the purchase of vaccines, the investigations carried out by this service not to reveal anything, but to conceal its failure, its possible corrupt and criminal activities, as was the case, for example, with this purchase of vaccines, when an urgent investigation was carried out by the service. When we made an investigation, that is to say, we made a request for the purchase of these vaccines, and we demonstrated in the course of the request that in fact this investigation... Although the purpose of the investigation was not to investigate anything, the health minister suddenly was prepared to make another investigation. The question is, who then needed the first investigation? If you're going to make a second, what's going to change all this? Have you suddenly realized that, well, you haven't gone through this move with your irresponsibility... possibly also the imposition of unlawful conduct, not just irresponsible behaviour. In the situation with these masks, of course, we can and must probably go to ask for such an investigation by the service, because this will show to what extent these irresponsible transactions are covered. Whether it is in the interest of one restaurant or one political power, or more generally - in the interest of all the prevailing political cartel and in the interest of the entire government, because if the investigation of the service is initiated by Krišjānis Kariņš and supervised by Krišjānis Kariņš, then he will have to be responsible for the results of the investigation of this service. And I assume that that is why this proposal will be rejected from the ruling coalition, because the truth could be very unfavourable to the ruling coalition and that it is simply the show you are playing at the moment. Also what the New Conservative Party is now... As I understand it, it has turned to the Office of the Prosecutor General for its own investigation into the purchase of vaccines. It will be very interesting to follow your vote in the Saeima when we will actually decide here on this, on this request, where the facts will actually show that the investigation of this service has not taken place with the aim of investigating something. However, I think we should give the opportunity, therefore, to demonstrate what they are dealing with here too, and to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U183	I closed the debate. Please call me! Let's vote for 40. - To the Members of the Scrape, Stepanenko and Svekov's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 24, for - 52, for - 9. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U184	Next. 41. - the proposal by Members Karina Sprūde, Julia Stepanenko and Lubova Svekova. It is planned to give the Cabinet of Ministers the task of establishing within 10 days from the date of entry into force of these amendments a monitoring system, which collects and evaluates complaints and submissions of users of the multi-use hygienic fabric from the procurements organised by the State Defence Military Objects and Procurement Centre. The Commission has therefore had a debate on this. In the Commission, this proposal is not supported, because there is now quality control, as we have heard from the institutions. I therefore call for the vote not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U185	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U186	Yeah, how now... The Consumer Centre cannot collect all this information, it does not control this purchase... control... quality control. This is the case, and in fact this monitoring centre is necessary because masks have been bought not only for children, but also for the poor and the poor. And if it is obvious that these masks are inadequate, people do not understand where to turn - either in the Ministry of Defence or in the Ministry of Health or elsewhere. There must be a centre that collects this information publicly and monitors that information publicly and decides that these masks are, or are not, usable. Because we know that... probably soon we will find out that all these masks, which have been bought, are not usable because they are probably bought... irregularities. However, in order to ensure that public procurement does not cause health problems in the future, it is necessary to have such a monitoring centre to monitor the quality of procurement. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U187	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for 41. - To the Members of the Scrape, Stepanenko and Svekov's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 24, for - 51, for - 9. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U188	42. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Provision is made for public consultations, “started before the amendment of Article 21 of this Law on public consultation of development planning documents of the planning region and local authority... Therefore, those conditions. The Commission is, of course, in favour of this proposal. I call for support if a vote is required.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U189	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U190	43. - the proposal of Members Julia Stepanenko and Lubova Svekov. Provision is made for the exclusion of Article 10 of the draft law, which established the wages of the vaccination office. With the support of the Commission, 46 have been included. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U191	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U192	Colleagues! I call for this proposal to be supported. If it is partly supported, no, I see it being supported. This is a proposal, yes, on the wages of the vaccination office. So, if we're like... As if you have finally abolished this vaccination office together, we must, accordingly, remove the salaries from this draft law. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U193	Name to Member Ilmar Duritis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U194	Good evening, very honourable chair of the sitting! High honourable Members! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to make some comments and my views on the draft law and, above all, on this subject, the 'Vacation Bureau', following this long hearing and the debate, which has opened a very wide-ranging debate. It has to be said that any debateer (though thanks to those who were constructive in the debate, but unfortunately, I must admit very little) admits that we have to carry out, in some way and in a very successful way, vaccination of the population as quickly as possible, and that is, preferably, 70-80 percent of the Latvian population, who should be vaccinated this year to the autumn. We must certainly ensure a clear, transparent vaccination process. We need to give priority to this vaccination. It is not easy to do this for one and a half million people. We need to organise vaccination as close to the population as possible, and even today there are more than 627 vaccination points in Latvia. They all have to be supplied with a certain amount of vaccine, they all have to provide the population with a ranking, and this is a great organisational work, and I think any of you, however, in its deep heart understand that it is a great extra work, that it is not the daily work of the Ministry of Health, that it is a challenge. It is a challenge for any country, and it is also a challenge for Latvia. I have to say that whatever I want to be constructive in this debate, but today that genre is a little different and more emotional, and I also want or do not want to be like that. I think all the negies that arise... Yes, what has happened to this pandemic, both in society and in Members, on various issues... that many may not have been in power for years and feel sad about it - all this focuses in some way on these few people who have worked and left their previous jobs and came to work at this vaccination office to organise a rapid vaccination process. Clearly, someone has to do so, and these people have done it, and they will do it. We also, the Ministry of Health, see that it could be more effective as a unit of the National Health Service, and this is undoubtedly a priority for the country. When I listen to this debate, I hear that in principle... Well, who's supporting anything. Who is associated with sport, it supports sport. Who is involved in or benefiting from trade and trade, it supports the opening up of trade. Who as though supports the poor and children, at the same time, buys in Switzerland by more than 10,000 times, passing the watch, and clock. Well, we're all fighting for our own stuff, but we need to understand that the government needs to think about limiting the spread of the disease in general. And the Ministry of Health must remember that health care is still not fully provided for chronic patients. I ask you to bring me together the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U195	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U196	And I also need to understand that if... I am so listening to the debate by the opposition this year, and I think that if the government had so planned with that wind (two weeks or three weeks ago we praised the situation in Estonia for example), then Mrs Sprūdes would hardly have returned from Switzerland to Latvia, because she would hardly want to do so if Latvia could not possibly provide healthcare to the general public. The hospitals would be full of patients in the community. For us, colleagues... I call, however, on you to think in general and more generally and not to peel down so narrowly, and not to neglect other interests without a foundation where... maybe it really has a beam in place of the scratch in your eye. I really want to say that... Indeed, thank you to those members of the opposition who come to us with constructive criticism. We are ready to really listen to this criticism. And this is proof of it, I also think, the work of the Commission, the work of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption, and thank you very much to the chairman of the Commission, who, in my opinion, has done a great deal to deal with the crisis. I do not agree that, let us say, this populist move, including with regard to the vaccination office, would be justified. I think that is wrong. I think we need to work together and think about how to deal with this crisis together. And it is not a crisis for the position or opposition - it is a crisis for all Latvians, it is a crisis for the whole world. I would therefore like to say thank you to everyone who gives support and not just without reasonable criticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U197	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U198	Well, I think that this last speech was a testament and an example of why we do not need to hold such long sittings of the Saeima. And here I am addressing the chairman of the sitting first. Your duty was to respond to this situation and to point out that we are talking about the second reading (perhaps many coalition Members who are not present at all in this debate have not recorded it at all) and that it is now the duty to talk about concrete proposals, not about the whole draft law, or not at all. And all of these... Even the combined time of the debate was nothing at all - not on the proposal. That is first. Secondly. It is really amusing to hear from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Health that, at the moment, as I say, there is only an understanding that vaccination is really a very responsible, difficult process and indeed it should be organised. Well, we hope that you will finally begin to organise it, because, in fact, all the things that are currently going on in this debate and, as the public is saying, the roast is that you are unable to do it, you are not doing it. In this case, it is the duty and function of the opposition, and we are doing so, we are referring to it and rightly criticising it, because that is what we can do. On the other hand, those of you who are in power should show you how you will do so. If our debate is formed that the opposition is taking part in this debate, it comes with proposals, including, as you have admitted yourself, constructive proposals, with constructive criticisms, but you are not able to respond for your own part, then, apologies, you simply demonstrate either your failure or the arrogance that you do not recognise Latvia as a whole as a democratic state in which you are outside the law. And that's in principle what was shown again. The opposition must then take part in the debate in accordance with the roll of order of the Saeima, while the Members of the position can do whatever they want. Go on. What you mentioned about public displeasure with the community. No, you still have not understood that society is dissatisfied, not with the community, but with your actions, how to deal with this situation. That is the main problem. Go on. If we are talking specifically about this proposal, there is, by nature, no difference as we will vote, because, as we know, there is now another cunning maneuver - this vaccination office has been moved under another roof, where the Minister has already said in the direct text that it will be... We will include it in the single salary, the salaries will be specifically according to this usual grid set for officials, but they will have the allowances. So we can decide here what we want, we can either fix any wages, any restrictions, it won't happen... it won't give anything at all, because, as we see, this power is playing with the state budget, with responsibility as with its own pocket, as with a home garden where, whatever they want, they plant it whatever they want, dig it out, and whatever the consequences will be. They will not have to answer for this. We can see this from this debate. There is no membership, or simply a arrogant attitude, or people at all are unable to talk about the proposals, not even following them. Many, as we see, don't even know how to apply... not even participate in the debate at all. So what result do we want from this?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U199	Mr Zarins, we are debating this bill at second, final, reading. We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U200	Thank you. I want to add and reflect a little on what Mr Duriša said about the need for a vaccination office and the huge problems that this institution has solved. I studied publicly available information about Lithuania and Estonia. In none of these countries was a special service in a similar form to the vaccination office in Latvia. Neither in Lithuania nor Estonia, it appears from publicly available information that the services of the Ministry of Health, which provides the vaccination process, would receive some additional allowances for the work they carry out. The following conclusion follows from these two facts. If the officials in Estonia and Lithuania are dealing with the problem at the Ministry of Health and provide a much higher percentage of vaccinated persons, and if these countries are both providing vaccines for people who want to vaccinate and providing management for the supply of vaccines, and this is done on the basis of the existing health system, which could be compared to the system of family doctors in Latvia, then the question arises: why or what special difference is there between our Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health's restaurants that we cannot, without specifically established institutions with double pay here, ensure even the purchase of vaccines in the country? We're the last... one of the practically last places in relation to the number of persons vaccinated. Then what is the salary vaccination office? What kind of merit? The fact that we are at the very bottom of the numbers of vaccinees? The fact that we are still waiting for vaccines, but the vaccination office has been working for a long time? And about the fact that now the Minister for Health also acknowledges in his letter that the vaccination office, by its very nature, provides or intends to provide communication management functions? Communication management functions include PR specialists. And this office, as PR specialists and money-recruitment, has wasted them because it does not provide an elementary case - an adequate and competitive number of neither vaccines nor vaccinated persons compared to neighbours. And if we are talking about our neighbours, we also need to understand that any restrictions imposed are a form of fatigue in society, they make society's fatigue, not just from a pandemic, but from institutions and politicians that make such decisions. If other countries gradually introduced restrictions and reduced them, looked at regions and modelled situations, without imposing such strict restrictions as in Latvia, then... society both accepts restrictions and does not get tired of appropriate sanctions, limiting life... sport or communication. Unfortunately, in Latvia, red light burns everywhere and everyone who works in the respective fields. And I think it's the worst thing that could happen, because fatigue is already falling from limitations, and the temperature of its frustration is still rising, as demonstrated by the public vote on the ManaBalss.lv, which has developed... and which showed displeasure specifically against the existence of a vaccination office. Therefore, colleagues, although that office is being reorganised, the frustration will continue to grow. And you can reorganize or modernise the office, or add... In any case, it will have consequences both for communication and for elections close to local governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U201	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U202	Good evening, everybody! Mr. Durishi, you did not take the perfect opportunity to keep quiet. You are Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Health as I understand. And you are in charge of the poor quality of the vaccination office, even if we have the last place in all of it. You already have all the anti-vaccucuums in there, judged by statistics and everything else. The only thing you can do is to skip the vaccination newspaper. And the question is, what did you pay them for? About what? The famous meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, where Mrs. Juhvevičs was unable to answer Kariņš how many doses is in one of those bottles, and said that she would find out in some e-class or in some system? About what? Because they can't deliver... Is that so? Will you answer either the vaccination office or all its mature responses for the... With Viņķelis... for not buying vaccines from either Pfizer or Moderna, for which I am reading in the press today, the Prosecutor General is going to encourage, Mr Durish? You're in the same parist's maturity that is responsible for all this madness. To show you the statistics where Latvia is? The whole world is open. We have people sitting loaded for you, Mr. Durysh, and you're here to philosophies that we need a vaccination office with, I don't know, five thousand or so big wages there. You already have half a million studies on herring in your fur, Mr. Dourish! The money you're talking about is the only one -- that's not to vaccinate people. Even those who want. You kept that line you made something to call, please log in. Some 50,000 crazy people called, applied, then ome went to the Birth House or Children's Hospital... To find out where to vaccinate. Is that your order? That's what they pay for, Mr. Durish? But society as a whole knows. And then comes in one place, and of the four others they call again, because there's no order. As Parliamentary Secretary responsible for legislation on this matter, you are directly responsible. You have a direct link to ensure between the Ministry of Health and Parliament, Mr. Druitis! And you're here to cook your mouth tonight at the vaccination office, which needs salaries. Maybe you should talk to him that you and Viņķelis have to sit on the accused's promise that we don't have vaccines, Mr. Durys! Or because the masks were bought by the Labsman... or what his name was there, then he ran away. Then again to the next purchases... Where the New Unity they are... Members' candidates win their distribution... SIA “Vaccija”, Aksels Roshofs his name. Maybe we'll talk about this? This is the achievement of the vaccination office? What is the achievement? You do not even know what functions this event, which has failed in society, has. You're talking about something very serious here. Do you even know how many people in Latvia want to vaccinate? You're talking about 70 percent of people vaccinating... 70, no, I think 97 percent of Latvian society does not want to vaccinate. And the vaccination newspaper won't help. And the wages won't help, Mr. Durish! This was the place for you, as Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Health, to get up and apologize for their terrible failure. And your personal incapacity, Mr. Durish! So, what have you been able to do? We have people flying from Lithuania and Estonia because they can, there is everything open. In other countries go to the taverns, go to the works. We got it. For you, Mr. Durish! Because of you, people are sitting at home. Because you're philosophiing and you're just getting money. But maybe we need to get out of the closet once, Mr. Durtys, because everything you're doing is that through that place... Where the Caesar walks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U203	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U204	Colleagues! Listening to the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Health, who, by the way, was also Parliamentary Secretary to the sadly famous Mrs. Viņķele, and I understand that there are no conclusions at all, and absolutely nothing of her mistakes... In fact, some of the good forms of Mr. Duritis have mixed concepts very strongly, because Mr. Duritis believes that power is something that someone has to hurt. It's probably because Mr. Dūritis believes that power is not responsibility for his inactions, for his mistakes, for his envy, for his totality, but, in Mr. Dūritis's opinion, power is snooping through the public authorities like his own supermarket, laying out his friends there or... What are they all there for you? Once somewhere falls out, then appear in a different place. Mr. Dūriss believes that power is really a snooze by taxpayers like his own pocket, setting up an order for Šchipčinskis, setting up a vaccination newspaper... We'll find out who you paid... printing the vaccination newspaper. He believes that power is simply a waste of money. He is upset that someone can afford to buy some money at his own expense, because Mr Dūreis believes that everything he has to do is to spend your money as a taxpayer. Right, left to get something. Mr Dūris believes that it is now time to have a party, that it is time to spend, because Mr Dūriss, 2.3 million from taxpayers' funds, will go to vaccination awareness and communication campaigns. That's Mr. Durish's philosophy. Of course, someone probably thinks it is...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U205	Thank you. I closed the debate. Mr Rancan, please have your comment on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U206	Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission. There is no request for a vote on this. We can go further, next proposal. With your permission, of course.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U207	Yeah. Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 43. - The proposal by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please, let's vote! For - 53, for - 27, for - 2. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U208	44. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. Identical to the previous proposal. Supported, included 46. - the committee's proposal cannot be put to the vote because it has already been approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U209	Members support and have not applied in the debate. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U210	Go on. 45. - An offer from Members Viktors Valaiņa, Edgars Tatars, Jānis Dūklavs and Raimonds Bergmanis. Again... exclude Article 10 of the draft law, which means... the salaries of this vaccination office, which were already provided for in the annex to the Act. With the support of the Commission, 46 have been included. - the Commission's proposal. Neither can the vote be taken anymore.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U211	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U212	46. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. It is also foreseen to exclude Article 10 of the draft law, which includes an annex to the Covid-19 law on the management of infectious spread with the wages of the vaccination office. The Commission is, of course, in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U213	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U214	Therefore, colleagues, all the proposals in this draft law have been examined. I call for a vote on this draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2218-U215	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” in the second, final, reading! Please, let's vote! For - 87, for - no, for - 2. The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda has been examined at this sitting. I will present to you the questions sent by Members. Members Karina Sprūde, Jūlija Stepanenko, Aldis Gobzems, Lubova Švecova and Armands Krauze have submitted the question “On storage and circulation of antiques”. We refer this matter to the Minister of Justice, Janis Bordan. And Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Aldis Gobzems, Lubova Švecova and Andris Kazinovskis have tabled the question “On the diagnosis of Covid-19 virus using the PCR test method”. We refer the matter to the Minister for Health, Mr Pavlut. The agenda for today is therefore under consideration. Registration of participants. Quorum has been established. The sittings of the Saeima on the agenda presented today will be discussed next Thursday, 25 March. Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
