ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2291-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! We will begin the remote session of the parliamentary extraordinary session of 19 August 2021. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the State Border of the Republic of Latvia” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2291-U2	Hello... Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Good morning, dear colleagues! Sitting viewers and listeners! Today, the Saeima is looking at a package of draft laws aimed at improving the regulatory framework for faster installation of the state border. On 17 August, the Cabinet of Ministers approved and led amendments to four laws: the Construction Law, the Forest Law, the Law on Expropriation of Public Property and the Law on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia. This will help to build a modern infrastructure on the Latvian-Belarusian border as a matter of urgency: iron wire fences, roads, bridges, video equipment, patrols, and other activities are included. In short, I will also outline the substance. It is planned to extend the regulation on what is included in the border area. In the future, the part of the border band will include not only the border band of the country, but also the patrol band, the location where the external border band of the country is not identifiable due to public waters or natural barriers, as well as where it is not possible to provide the necessary conditions for the existence of the border protection system at the external border. The Border Strip will in future also include the surveillance band for border marks, which is the area between the border of the country and the patrol band. To further strengthen the border with Belarus, trees and shrubs need to be cut, as well as land alignment and other improvement works. The Ministry of the Interior shall transfer the right of felling and property rights to the felled trees in the state border band, the patrol bar and the border mark monitoring bar to the public limited liability company “Latvian State Forests”. Similarly, the State Audit Office of Construction will in future perform the functions of the building board established by the Construction Law and other laws and regulations of the field of construction in relation to the construction of the buildings necessary for the needs of the Ministry of the Interior or its subordinate institutions not only in the state border, but also in the patrolling and supervision of boundary marks. The construction of border construction projects started so far will be controlled by the construction board of the respective municipality. These necessary amendments were also outlined at the meeting of the commission responsible for the last week on the Latvian-Belarusian border. I therefore call on the Saeima today to support this transfer of all draft laws to the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2291-U3	Thank you. ‘ Against” has applied to speak to Member Valery Agešins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2291-U4	Dear colleagues, The agenda of today's Saeima sitting includes four draft laws related to the establishment of the patrolling and border marking surveillance bar in accordance with the recommendations indicated in the Audit Report of 8 January 2020 of the State Audit Office. This is about amendments to the Law on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia, amendments to the Law on Forests, amendments to the Law on Expropriation of Public Person's Property and amendments to the Law on Construction. More than a year and seven months had been given for the implementation of these recommendations, but Parliament's draft laws were submitted only yesterday and are being directed urgently. It should be noted that once again, without respecting the rights and duty of Members to get to know in detail the draft laws to be examined at the sitting, both the principles of democracy and the respect of Members, as well as the coalition, which has a mandate from the people, are violated. It is simply disrespect for the Saeima from the executive side of the government's arrogance - as usual. In view of the fact that Members of the Saeima have not been given the opportunity to get to know the content of these documents in a timely manner, we call on all those who read and analyse the documents to be discussed not to seek ways to serve the government. It is the Cabinet that is responsible for the situation that we have reached. It's been a month's story of migrants, but the government is only on Wednesday without any explanation, without being able to find out more, as it passes, is driving... Through Parliament. Get off me, colleagues! On behalf of the political group I invite the Saeima to assess the quality of the government's work more critically and to think more carefully about what is happening in the Cabinet. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2291-U5	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia” to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 63, against and refrains. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Forest Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Members have not applied for a 'yes' or 'no' but have asked for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law on Forest Law to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 63, against and refrains. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on Expropriation of Public Person’s Property” be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Members have asked for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Property”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 65, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Members have not applied for a speech, but they have been asked to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law” to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! No, 66, against and refrains. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda, under the heading ‘Conclusion of the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust’. Draft decision on the dismissal of Janis Eglitis from the post of member of the National Electronic Media Council. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2291-U6	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, fellow Members! We consider draft decision on the dismissal of Jānis Eglīsis from the post of member of the National Electronic Media Council. Given that the Saeima approved Janis Eglīte as a member of the Public Electronic Media Council on 4 August this year, the Commission received an application from the National Electronic Media Council for the withdrawal of Janis Eglitis from the member of the National Electronic Media Council. On 17 August, the Saeima, meeting of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, discussed and unanimously supported this draft decision. I also invite the Saeima to support the draft decision on the release of Janis Eglitis from the post of member of the National Electronic Media Council.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-19-PT13-2291-U7	Thank you. Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the dismissal of Jānis Eglīsis from the post of member of the National Electronic Media Council”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda of the sitting has been examined. Time for notification. Dear colleagues, The Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission will meet to discuss four draft laws submitted to it. Let us look forward to the outcome of the Commission's work. We are predicting that, after the end of the commission meeting, there could be another Saeima sitting today. We'll follow the commission! You will be informed of the next meeting at first reading of the four draft laws that have been submitted to the Commission today by means of a text message. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. I'm closing the sitting.
