ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U1	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! We started the meeting of the Saeima with reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the Member Vitas Anda Steel, Marija Golubeva, Andra Skrides, Daces Rukšāne-Šchipčinskas, Gata Zamura, Inese Voika and Krista Baumane's draft law on "Amendments to the Criminal Law" be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. ‘ About” Member Vita Anda Steel applied to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U2	Dear President, Dear colleagues, The Ombudsman finds in his report of 2020 that cases of hate speech are increasing against persons with other skin colour, ethnic origin, as well as against sexual minorities. Read the mass media about verbal and physical attacks on people because of their sexual orientation. The tragic event (which the police are still investigating) in Tukums is also a testament to how dramatic a human destiny can be turned to - a person who is deeply hateful and who has turned to help but has not received it. Today we are proposing a bill "Amendments to the Criminal Law", which clarifies the responsibility of a person for crimes related to social hatred, mistrust and other forms of discrimination. The current legal framework explicitly mentions only three criteria for actions aimed at causing hatred or distrust. Those criteria are - the gender, age and disability of the person. This norm adopted in 2014 should be supplemented by other relevant anti-discrimination criteria, which are mentioned in international human rights norms and the violations of which can be observed in Latvian society as well. We offer to add social belonging and sexual orientation to the criteria. The border between the various manifestations of freedom of expression and where hate speech begins is not easy to define and is often misunderstood in society. In law enforcement institutions, too, a common European understanding of where this border is torn is emerging. The draft law offers to supplement and clarify concepts in criminal law in order to bring our society closer to a common understanding of the group of people to be included and named in the criteria, against which hate speech is directed in Latvia. This is part of our society with homosexual orientation. It is important to state in a clear text that there should be no discrimination based on sexual orientation, that people should not be subjected to hate speech or hate crimes on grounds of sexual orientation. The State has a duty to protect people from such abuses. If such cases occur, the law enforcement bodies are obliged to investigate them, as has been pointed out many times by the European Court of Human Rights. The draft law proposes to comply with the Ombudsman's call for further clarification of the concept of violence, specifying that violence can be both physical, sexual and emotional. The draft law provides for the withdrawal of the sign of ‘serious damage’ as its detection so far has made it difficult to investigate criminal offences related to the origin of social hatred and mistrust. In his report in 2020, the Ombudsman said that, compared with previous years, there were significantly more cases of hate speech against persons with different colour and ethnic backgrounds, as well as against sexual minorities. In a number of cases, the Ombudsman has applied for these statements himself to the law enforcement authorities. In 2019, the European Commission's report against racism and intolerance on Latvia states that the Commission expresses concern about reports related to hate speech, violent attacks and discrimination against protected groups such as homosexuals, transgenders and other minorities. This is because there is a lack of clear protection of the law against incitement to hatred and violence on grounds of sexual orientation. The Commission indicated to Latvia that the government did not collect data on sexual orientation and therefore could not assess the size of the problem. Indeed, it is not easy to learn about the number of cases of hate speech or distrust. Partly because these incidents are not reported to law enforcement authorities because they do not believe that they will help because there is a lack of confidence that recourse to assistance will not lead to a misunderstanding of the fact that hate crime can be not only of skin colour or ethnic origin, but also of sexual orientation. Although the State does not carry out research in this field, the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights conducts regular surveys with representative data also for Latvia. The last survey took place in 2019. In Latvia, surveying representatives of the community of sexual minorities concluded that 13 percent of respondents have suffered a physical or sexual attack due to their sexual orientation over the past five years.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U3	Mrs. Steel, thank you. Your time is up. ‘ Against” applied to speak by Member Edgars Tavars. Please! ( Pause) Please have a sound. We can't hear you, Mr. Tatar!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U4	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Why do I not support the specific draft law on Amendments to the Criminal Law? First. We do not support equal sexual orientation to disability, as provided for in the first paragraph of Article 150. Secondly. We do not support it because it is a criminal offence and hate speech and it remains a criminal offence and hate speech, whether it has been committed against anyone... sexual orientation or against skin color, or against heterosexuality, or against a man, or a woman, or a child. A criminal offence is and remains a criminal offence, all of which must be investigated with equal responsibility and with equal seriousness regardless of the orientations, social groups or other classifications. Let us not make a distinction between crimes of priority. Any crime is a crime. I call for this particular proposed version not to be supported in any case and for any priorities to be shared when it comes to crime. They are all equally important and operationally to be investigated and to be accessible to everyone with equal responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U5	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Legal Commission of the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Law” tabled by the Member in the steel, Golubeva, Skride, Rukšāne-Šchipčinskas, Zamura, Voika and Baumane, stating that it is the Commission responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 51, for - 16, for - 8. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda, under the heading ‘Transfer and first reading of draft laws to commissions’. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” submitted by the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Mr. Valaiņš, will you speak against?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U6	I'm going to say 'no'... I'll say 'no', yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U7	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U8	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Colleagues! I'm more about the draft law... Of course, there is the question of whether it is right now, at a time of real crisis, to look at the issues of wage increases in general. But if we have reached such a situation once, I think it is equally important to draw attention to the fact that this draft law is another exception to the single remuneration law, which is already being prepared by the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Acting in the Commission of State Administration and Local Government... the new law on the system of unitary remuneration, which... There have been several opinions of the State Audit Office regarding the fact that there is no uniform system of remuneration in our country, as well as various studies and, most importantly, promises from the government that this law will be. At the moment, the Unified Rewards Act is stuck somewhere in government corridors... to the State Secretaries, there is no further movement. In my view, colleagues, in these circumstances, it is more right than we can do to support this once again exception, regardless of how it is right or wrong - there are very many areas in this law waiting for the question of remuneration to be finally arranged - but put pressure on the government to finally actually present to the Saeima a new draft single remuneration law. This is a very bad practice that we are currently doing with the current exception. This is a bad practice that has also been in the past - to create new and new exceptions. The whole of this law now consists of only one exception. The exception in one area, the other area. There's another one created here. No matter how important it is, I think it is important for the country as a whole to put in place a uniform system of remuneration. The draft single remuneration law has been drafted by the government, has been prepared for consideration by the government, and has now been in place for more than half a year and is not being driven. In my opinion, it is unacceptable for the Saeima to continue to produce new exceptions at a time when the government fails to meet its basic task: to prepare a single remuneration bill so that those working in the public administration work under the same conditions according to the areas of responsibility: both municipal workers, municipal council presidents, vice-presidents, public administration, state secretaries and so on, so that all of them have common rules, which is unfortunately not the case at present. The Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs is now offering its vision. Well, imagine if we... The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy will now start... as economic workers, the Social and Labour Commission will start to build a system of wages for workers in the social field outside and to amend everything now. How uniform will this single remuneration system be? Colleagues, I draw attention to the fact that what we are doing at the moment is wrong and that the government needs to work normally, to present a normal vision of the entire public administration, rather than to undo just one very narrow section. Thank you. I call for this draft law not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U9	“About” has applied to speak Member Artuss Kaimiņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U10	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! I cannot disagree with the accusations made by Mr Valaiņš that there is no common meaning of the law on this single remuneration system and we are directing here from the commission our draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Authorities" specifically to the future Public Electronic Media Council and the existing National Electronic Media Council. Mr Valaiņš, where I can't agree with you, is that it is some kind of a narrow and small circle that perhaps doesn't even matter to you. I completely cannot agree with this. Please read that this draft law is accompanied by a positive opinion of the Ministry of Finance. I don't know, Mr. Valaiņš, where in the corridors, this draft law on the single remuneration model is stuck... where the doors in which the offices are located. I don't know, and I don't want to waste my energy on it. The point where I spend my energy and want to spend it is in this bill that we have created, and in this new public media architecture that we have built by law, so to speak, on paper, but not in nature. And this law came into force this year, in 2021, on 1 January. And, Mr Valaiņš, we have still not elected the SEPLP. We have designed, if you can say so, to apply (in brackets) for competitions. We still have no serious candidate from the Saeima to be discussed. We've taken... involved personnel selection companies, advertised by advertisers. Five months have passed, and we still do not have, in my opinion, a significant candidate that we can direct to this important Council. Colleagues! It is true that, in fact, everything lies in reward. We offer from the Commission - and I am speaking here on my own - to raise salaries to attract professional individuals to the selection process. I also offer and ask the entire Saeima today to adopt this law as a matter of urgency. I propose that Members propose their candidates as soon as possible, because here Members... The 10 Members with their signatures must support the candidate so that we can lead it in the Saeima, because the Saeima candidate is a lighthouse for the other two candidates. In particular, another candidate comes from the President of Latvia, and one candidate comes from the Council of Implementation of the Memorandum of Cooperation between NGOs and the Cabinet of Ministers. There will be no candidates until they are candidates for the Saeima. We must elect these candidates, and we must do so, I would say, at the latest yesterday. We've been late, we've been late for five months. I hope that we will adopt this law today as a matter of urgency. The remuneration will be raised both for the non-existent SEPLP, which will have three members, and for the existing NEPLP, where we may also, in the foreseeable future, be able to reduce the number of members of the board. There are now five, and the SEPLP of three could be compared. Similarly, it may be possible to try to increase the capacity of the SEPLP unit, since they do not have any reduction in their work. But it is not a matter of today's agenda. Today, I am asking you to support all this. In principle, the question is that we offer the most competitive remuneration that the Saeima, the Ministry of Finance and the State as a whole can now offer. This would be EUR 3200 for the net board president. We must elect this SEPLP, one member of the Saeima, the other members of the Saeima must be approved by the Saeima. Members of the NEPLP will only receive this salary, if it can express itself, a leap or a bonus from 1 September, but, colleagues, it is May - the sixth. I hope tomorrow... from now on, perhaps even today, we will be able to obtain the potential candidates that we can nominate from the Saeima for this important, significant post. So that I'm... I understand that there can't double the time to talk here. So, please, my fellow Members, to support this. And look forward to candidates for SEPLP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U11	One Member has spoken about the handing over of the bill, one against. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions”, which was submitted by the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 57, for - 27, for - 4. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. For a first reading, see the draft law. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U12	Colleagues! The draft law itself and its substance. So we are looking at the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of Public and Local Authorities”. The draft law provides for an increase in remuneration for members of the Public Electronic Media Council as of 1 September of this year, including for members of the National Electronic Media Council. The draft law provides that for the calculation of the remuneration of the Chair of the Public Electronic Media Council, a coefficient of 4.48, which is 3200 euros, and for the members of the Council – 3000 euros net. This reward, as I said, is now the most competitive one we have been able to offer to professionals at this level. We are also aware of the challenge facing this Council in its future field of action... What it has to do. And, honourable colleagues, the SEPLP must bring together public media. A merger must be carried out, both in terms of architecture, I think, in terms of documentation and accounting, and also, above all, of the principle of a single building, and it cannot be ruled out that we have also written in law that this board must create a solution for how the public media will receive funding in the future. SEPLP will be responsible for EUR 40 million - the co-financing of the public media from the state budget. Three members of the Council will be responsible for this, who will share this money further either for Latvian Radio or Latvian Television or for the internet platform LSM.lv or for any other projects. There's a need for high-sorry specialists. It also provides that the SIP is not an exceptional regulator, that is to say, it is not less important for the NIP, and that the remuneration system for the NIP is aligned with one member of the SIP. We have also set a deadline for the NEPT to receive this salary, that is, if it turns out that we can, let us accept, elect a member of the SEPLP next week... Member of the Council of the Saeima. The NEPT will receive its remuneration only when 1 September 2021. We are already late for the entire implementation of this law, so this draft law is on our agenda today. So that I would also ask for this draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U13	Mr. Cilevič... Oh, okay, Mr. Cilevič has cancelled his debate. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” as urgent! Please, let's vote! - 53, 25, abstaining - not. The draft law has been declared urgent. Let's start a debate. The name to Member Boris Cilevič. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U14	Thank you. I call for this draft law not to be supported for three main reasons. First. The reasons why professionals do not want to apply for SEPLP are, in my view, entirely different than low pay. We will not be able to provide any remuneration, for example, for the management of airBaltic, and this difference is not so significant as to compensate for the other shortcomings inherent in the work of this institution. Why is this happening - this is the subject of some serious negotiations. I just want to remind you of the last NEPT... The fate of the leaders and several members of the National Electronic Media Council. We are electing these people in the NEPT with great consensus, sometimes even unanimously. A few months later, attacks are beginning on them, criticism, pressure or we simply release, either quite dubious from the point of view of the law, one leader, another leader is forced to leave his office as if voluntarily, but in fact, the pressure of some parties and some politicians. Do you think professionals don't see it? Do you think that really professionals do not see that the Council does not have real independence, that political pressure is continuing and that the coalition expects these people to be directly subject to the wishes of the coalition? This, in my view, is the main reason why we cannot attract truly professional and skilled people. And with the money you can't help here. Declarations that the Council is independent are not enough. Its independence must be ensured in practice, both by means of practical mechanisms which should be laid down in law (not at the moment) and by means of practical work. By raising pay, we will only achieve that people want to work there because of the high wage. And really, the professionals do not want to be the peramal boys and executives of political party power, but those people who are primarily interested in money will agree to it. I believe that this is not the Council that we would like to see, in the direct light of the letter of the law and the spirit. Secondly. As Mr Valaiņa has already mentioned, we have once again undermined the single remuneration system. Of course, I fully agree with Mr. Neighbouring that this council is very important, but is it not important for other public institutions? And really it's not a good practice. At first, the Ministry of Finance and the government were quite reserved for this bill precisely for this reason. I do not really know what is happening to you inside the coalition and how it was possible, however, to convince the Ministry of Finance that it reviewed its attitude, but that all the problems remain, and all the concerns remain. The draft law is, in fact, paradoxical because it provides that the remuneration of existing NEPTs will be increased at the time when the SEPLP is established. But at the moment NEPLP also performs the functions of SEPLP, and when SEPLP is established, the amount of work in NEPLP will decrease, and the salary will increase at that time. So there will be less work, but the wages will be higher. Is that really the principle of good governance, by which you, the coalition, seem to be seeking in words? At last, the third moment. Indeed, many people are struggling at the moment. There is a pandemic, people are losing their jobs, income is falling, life is getting harder, and it is precisely at this point that we want to raise wages for those people who have not yet started to work. Will this contribute to the prestige of this board? Will it contribute to the prestige of public media at all? In my view, it is a shot in the foot of the new public media that we seem to want to build. I therefore call for the vote to be taken against this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U15	Name to Member Artus Neminis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U16	Mr. Cilevičs, you are working in the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, not the first term, and you know very well what the functions of the NELP are, you know very well how the media world, including Latvia, has evolved. It is true, as you say, that the functions of the NAP will be re-distributed, the functions of the NAP will be transferred to those of the Public Electronic Media Council. That's right. But I cannot agree with you that the NEPT remains less, it is not absolutely true. At present, these all internet media, these all commercial channels, the radio FM frequencies, will not leave it any less. More and more of these media on the Internet... electronic media activities. And that's normal - it's the 21st century! - and it will be dealt with by the NEPLP. SEPLP in turn will deal with public media. For raising wages now. Well, it has come to the conclusion that this is happening now - on 6 May. In my opinion, we have made a mistake in the law itself that we have taken a copy-paste option from NEPLP salaries and written it inside this law, so we are also correcting this error, and it was in principle necessary to do so last year, in my opinion. I don't know, we could do it in October when all this pandemic has already started. Then, in that case, I would like to raise my concerns. Mr. Cilevičs, and all the others, you understand, the man who goes to the SEPLP, he's in such a brightlight, in a continuous light, and he's having these... And they're going to be all the time... I think they will be such a blows in a perverted sense, because these challenges are huge, to be done by this board. Remuneration, in my opinion, still does not correspond to what free market remuneration should be. A person with such corporate governance experience should receive at least EUR 6 000 per hand. This is the best we can offer right now, three thousand on hand. This person is not allowed to work somewhere else. He can be just... it's not - just, sorry, he can work either as a doctor, he can work as an artist, writer and as a teacher - that's all. I don't know if he'll have enough time for these works. There has been experience with other NEPLP leaders who tried to combine it - quite a lighthouse. Colleagues, please support this draft law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U17	The name to Member Boris Cilevič for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U18	Thank you. Mr. Village, I really appreciate your zeal and energy very much, and how you are trying to really achieve the adoption and implementation of this draft law, but, in my view, you cannot count on money to decide everything because... You completely ignore what I said, there my arguments remained in fact hanging in the air. Yes, there will be that light, but there will also be political pressure. The question is whether a person is prepared to submit to political pressure and, if so, to some amount. For two thousand - no, he will still remain independent. Three thousand, they'll agree. I think naive people hope for it. If a person is willing to sacrifice his independence, that is regardless of the remuneration he or she receives. Second moment for NEPT. This is indeed a very important issue. Internet media regulation - this is a problem that is now being fought across Europe and around the world. But is it right to start by raising wages? This regulation has not yet been adopted, it is not yet clear how, in a context of globalisation, we can instruct the Council in some way to regulate and so on those media that are outside our jurisdiction... how those global platforms that play an increasingly important role in our media structure can be regulated. There are a lot of difficult and unanswered questions here, and until they are resolved and at least we do not have any outlines, as we want to approach them, to raise the salary, as we say, in the hope that we will be able to regulate it in some way as legislators... We don't know what I think it is right to raise the salary for people who will do it right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U19	I closed the debate. Please... on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U20	Well yes, Mr Cilevičs marked a very large amount of work for the Commission in the future, and it is indeed true for the electronic media on the Internet. That is what the Commission must and will have to do, and that is what we will do, but I ask on behalf of the Commission to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U21	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”! Please, let's vote! For - 54, for - 26, for - 3. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U22	Dear President, In view of the urgency of this draft law, please consider this draft law at second reading today at this parliamentary sitting on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U23	Do Members have objections? Please log in. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U24	Hello, colleagues! I share the reasoning and opinion expressed by Mr Cilevič and believe that the decision to raise remuneration is very hasty and... that more serious problems are not addressed, but additional funding for one specific post is directed towards political interests of one group that are not in the public interest. I therefore believe that this draft law should not be seen as a matter of urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U25	In view of the fact that a Member has spoken against, I would ask the chairman of the committee to set a deadline for the consideration of the proposals and the date for the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U26	Dear President, It was... Mrs. Svekova talked about something... the urgency. She didn't talk about anything else. I didn't hear anything like that. This is completely different after the procedure. She didn't ask for dates, for anything. You asked whether Members had objections.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U27	She's opposed. She's opposed.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U28	But she's against, and then what... Well, what's she against? Can you formulate it?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U29	Against examination at this sitting at the present time. You have to determine...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U30	You are sitting in the back seat with a representative of the Legal Bureau. And definitely... I'm sure... I don't see if he's shaking with his head "yes" right now, or if he's...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U31	Yes, she asks for a deadline to be set for the proposals and a date for the hearing of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U32	Okay. All right, because I didn't hear that from Member Svekova. So, honourable colleagues, the deadline for tabling proposals is 20 minutes - until 12:37 today. The examination is, I hope, at the next extraordinary sitting announced today.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U33	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is until 12.37 today and consideration - another extraordinary remote meeting on 6 May. Thank you. On the agenda - reports by the Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. Draft decision “On further progress of the 10 529 Latvian citizens’ collective application “One time allowance of 500 EUR for families whose children continue to receive higher education in Latvia””. Please open a section on the procedure. Or Members (Sound interruption) ... view this sitting? There is no objection by Members. See the draft decision “On the further progress of the 10 529 Latvian citizens’ collective application “The one-time allowance of 500 EUR for families whose children continue to receive higher education in Latvia”. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U34	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, On 29 March 2021, the Saeima received a collective application from 10 529 Latvian citizens entitled “The one-time allowance of 500 EUR for families whose children continue to receive higher education in Latvia”, inviting to grant a one-time allowance to parents whose children are studying and have not yet reached the age of 20. On 28 April this year, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application reviewed the application and heard a representative of the initiative applicants who welcomed the grant of the allowance of EUR 500 for families with minor children. However, according to the applicants, also families with students should be given material support, as a large number of students do not receive scholarships, as well as do not use single-room rentals due to distance learning. According to the applicants, the state should provide support to all children. Representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science informed the Commission about the support mechanisms already in place, changes in the credit system and possibilities to defer repayment of credit, as well as the increased number of scholarships, as well as the possibility to apply for paid employment skills development. The Ministry of Welfare informed that the Ministry of Welfare supports the initiative, and more broadly than requested in the collective submission. Support, according to the Ministry of Welfare, would be needed for parents whose children are under 24 years of age and not under 20 years of age. The Commission unanimously decided to hand over this Latvian citizens’ initiative to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission and prepared a draft decision of the Saeima “On the way forward of the 10 529 Latvian citizens’ collective application “A one-off allowance of EUR 500 for families whose children continue to receive higher education in Latvia”. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U35	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U36	Hello, colleagues! The question that we are about to look at and vote on could be accompanied by the motto “Injustice”, “Simply injustice and government error”. Today we have the third chance to correct this error. I would remind you that I had previously tabled two proposals to amend the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection, which you, the ruling coalition, rejected. I already warned you that the ManaBalss.lv platform collects signatures to support the initiative, so that students under 20 would receive the so-called helicopter money, one-time support for Latvian children, as if for all Latvian children. I tried to convince you with figures and facts that it's unfair, that here's a professional school and technology student without any assessment of the family's material condition, without an assessment of whether a particular technical student receives a scholarship or does not receive a grant, whether he works or not... Their families received this support, but university students, mostly first- and second-year students, did not receive such support. You have voted against twice, I have heard various arguments twice why this cannot be done, and I am very sorry that its reasoning was very dubiously heard from the Ministry responsible, namely the Ministry of Education and Science, which argued that there is, above all, no database, that it is impossible to count those families who would really need this benefit, because here is a need to collect data from different institutions - from the State Revenue Service, from the State Social Insurance Agency and from you, the Ministry of Education and Science, because you need to know how many students in our country are at a particular age and whether they are receiving a grant or not. But it turns out that there is no such data either in the ministry or in the country as a whole. And this helplessness also made this mistake, which I will call only so - injustice, gross injustice. Now there is a chance to correct this popular initiative because, I will remind you, according to you... According to data provided by the Ministry of Education and Science, 4402 - 4402 students could be such a possible person in our country, but this initiative, as you can see, has been signed by more than 10 000 Latvian citizens. This means that this initiative, this correction of error, is supported not only by specific families with young students, but also by society as a whole. I call on you today to support the transfer of this initiative to the committee responsible and to remind you that it is financially a question of just over two million, but perhaps with the application of certain criteria - less than two million. Consider whether that amount is worth noting your gross error. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U37	Mr Zarins, will you have enough five minutes in the debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U38	Hello, colleagues! Mr Znotiņš will have enough five minutes in the debate, yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U39	Please! The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U40	I would like to remind Mrs Regina Ločmel that, above all, the Ministry of Education and Science is not responsible for social policy and social benefits in the country. One point. The Ministry of Education and Science is responsible for coordinating education strategy, shaping education policy and so on, and not for social support mechanisms. Social support mechanisms are the responsibility of the Ministry of Welfare. Two points. Ministry of Education and Science... And I personally, at least three times in the Saeima session, have stressed what the Ministry of Education and Science has done at this time to come against students to support them. I'll call it exactly one more time, maybe you'll hear it this time. So, first of all. The Ministry of Education and Science has increased the number of scholarships by 871 scholarships and doubled the amount of scholarships from 99 euros to 200 euros. In addition, the Ministry of Education and Science, in cooperation with the Ministry of Welfare, which is responsible for social policy, has realised the possibility for each student to apply for a social benefit of EUR 200. So those students who need it must leave and apply to the Ministry of Welfare as much as they can get a social benefit of EUR 200. The third mechanism that we have put in place during the comma crisis is an opportunity to work in universities with public funding, to work in research, to work in support of higher education in various ways and to receive another EUR 200. In addition, I would like to say that these support mechanisms can be combined. By the way, the Latvian Students' Association awarded the Ministry of Education and Science a prize in favour of support during this time of crisis, because this kind of support has never been in the history of the Republic of Latvia, which the Ministry of Education and Science, supporting students, has carried out. As regards social benefits as such, once again, competence of the Ministry of Welfare. But all the mechanisms that I listed are directly targeted at student support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U41	Mrs. Lochmele, will you have enough two minutes?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U42	No, it's not enough.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U43	In that case, we will continue the debate after a break. Registration of Members' presence. It's over. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U44	Dear Members, honourable Members, We shall continue the examination of the agenda of the first remote extraordinary sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 6 May 2021 after a break. Draft decision “On further progress of the 10 529 Latvian citizens’ collective application “One time allowance of 500 EUR for families whose children continue to receive higher education in Latvia””. We are continuing the debate on this draft decision. The name of Member Regina Lochmele for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U45	We are continuing the debate. I first turn to Mr Znotiņš, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science. You know, you came against yourself, pointing out that social support policy is the responsibility of the Ministry of Welfare and the Ministry of Education and Science is not responsible for this. Then I do not understand your pride with the fact that, here's how good the Ministry of Education and Science is, because it has increased the amount of the scholarship, the number of scholarships and so on. I am only very sorry that you, Mr. Znotiņš, have defaulted on the website of the Ministry of Education and Science, namely that out of all almost 80 thousand Latvian students, only five percent - five percent! - a scholarship is available. You have also defaulted that of these nearly 80 000 students, 60 percent of this grant is not at all eligible, because they learn training, not in publicly funded programmes, so they pay for their own training. 60 percent have no right to a scholarship at all. But the most important thing. I, in addressing the Saeima, have once again pointed out that injustice on this issue with regard to students is linked precisely to the fact that students in technical and vocational training have received EUR 500 from the country without any difference - whether they receive a scholarship or do not receive a scholarship, whether they are working well or whether the family is doing well or not during a pandemic. And it's this injustice, Mr. Znotins... I very much hope that you will support this initiative today, however, because I hope that you will have to meet with representatives of the student organisation who, as you said, have recently awarded the Ministry of Education and Science, and it will be possible to tell them that, here, we have had the opportunity to pay each student a lump sum of EUR 500 under the age of 20. But, you know, I voted 'no' because our Ministry so well supports you that, for what first and second course students this 500 euros. We're all good enough. And you will hardly be told by the representatives of the student organisation. Believe me, I am sure you will then be able to tell us how you were negotiating. And I also very much hope that you, Mr Znotiņš, and all the New Conservative Party, remembering your promises of 3 × 500 and every child at 50, 100 and so on, will today support my proposal when we look at the draft law on "Amendments to the State Social Benefits Act", where I propose to correct the error that led to the second mistake of paying this EUR 500 benefit, because it is the family state benefit... This error has already been inserted in the norm that, here, students of vocational schools and techniques... their families are entitled to a national family allowance, but as soon as the child reaches the university, this possibility disappears. I know that the Commission was not supported, but I look forward to a miracle. I am referring this time to the draft law "Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits". All the reservations that there is no money - I will give you proof that they are only reservations and do not pass any criticism. But now I very much hope, Mr Znotiņš, for your support for further progress on this initiative, so that, however, the Ministry of Welfare, as you... The entire government will, however, create this opportunity to give you a good report to the student council that, here, however, you have found an opportunity to support with a EUR 500 allowance for all students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U46	Name of Member (Sound defect.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U47	Colleagues! Mrs. Lochmele and other colleagues! However, I have to correct and explain the information that has been falsely expressed. First of all, these benefits are available only five per cent. You are mixing two things here, Mrs Lochmele. First of all, this social benefit, which is available through the institutions of the Ministry of Welfare, is available to every student. Anyone who needs it can apply and get it. And what you're talking about is the funding of performance, or the support of performance, for those students who learn excellently to motivate them to achieve high results, to motivate them to achieve good achievements through higher education, and it's really not available to all but only to part. We have doubled this amount to excellent students, and we have also grown in numbers by 841 scholarships this year. But this social support as such is available to any student. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U48	I closed the debate. Mr. Orlov (Loud Break) ... Mr Orlov, we don't see you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U49	Please support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U50	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the further progress of the 10 529 Latvian citizens’ collective application “One-time allowance of 500 EUR for families whose children continue to receive higher education in Latvia”! Please vote mode! For - 77, for - 1, for - 1, for - 1. Decision adopted. The next item is the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application “Gribam Sport Now” by 10 446 Latvian citizens”. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications has tabled this own-initiative proposal - a draft decision. If a Member objects to the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this sitting, please apply. So no one has applied. There is no objection by Members. We will therefore begin to examine the proposed draft decision of the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications - Member Normunds Gunna. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U51	Hello, colleagues! On April 6, the Saeima received a collective application from 10 446 Latvian citizens “Gibam sport now”. The initiative invites us to introduce balanced and safe sports solutions indoors in the public interest, determining how sports clubs can operate and how people can engage in sports activities indoors, complying with all requirements for limiting the spread of infection and hygiene in accordance with the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. On 28 April this year, the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications listened to the author of the initiative, who pointed to the benefits of implementing proposals, i.e. healthy and sports society, as well as the smaller health care expenses associated with a life-saving lifestyle. The Commission also heard a representative of the Sport Department of the Ministry of Education and Science, who pointed to the regulation adopted on 1 April this year, which will allow the Cabinet to gradually expand sports opportunities indoors and outdoors as soon as possible, deciding on the date of entry into force of the regulation according to the epidemiological situation. The representative of the Disease Prevention and Control Centre at the meeting of the Commission stressed that the morbidity indicators currently do not indicate the possibilities to allow indoor sports, as this would create additional disease risks. The Commission supported the follow-up of the initiative and concluded that the initiative should continue to be seen in the context of all other restrictions. The Commission decided to refer the initiative to the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission for further evaluation. Please support the parliamentary decision prepared by the Commission “On the way forward of the collective application “Gibam sport now” by 10 446 Latvian citizens”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U52	Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application “Gribam Sport Now” by 10 446 Latvian citizens”! Please vote mode! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Decision adopted. Agenda for next sitting: Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken from the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications. Applicants - Members Ainars Latkovskis, Anda Čakša, Iveta Benhena–Bekena, Inese Lībiņa–Egne, Arvils Aseradens, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Rihards Kozlovskis, Aldis Adamovičs, Maris Možvillo and Edgars Kronbergs. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision submitted by Ainara Latkovska, Anda Čakša, Iveta Benhenas-Beken, Inese Lībiņas-Egnere, Arvila Asheraden, Ojāra Ērika Kalniņa, Riharda Kozlovska, Alda Adamoviča, Māra Možvillo and Edgars Kronberga on the withdrawal of Member Iveta Benhen-Beken from the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications! Please vote mode! For - 77, for - no, for - 1. Decision adopted. The next draft decision - the draft decision submitted by Members Ainara Latkovska, Anda Čakša, Iveta Benhenas-Beken, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Arvila Asheraden, Ojara Ērika Kalniņa, Riharda Kozlovska, Alda Adamoviča, Māra Možvillo and Edgars Kronberga on the election of Member Iveta Benhenas-Bekena to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Ms Iveta Benhen-Beeken to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit. Please vote mode! For - 67, for - 1, for - 1. Decision adopted. The next item is on the agenda - Examination of draft legislation. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Edmunds Teirumnieks. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U53	Hello, colleagues! In the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs we work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” (No. 1023/Lp13). For the second, final, reading 12 proposals were received. Part of them were withdrawn because they duplicated the first reading and partly because they were financial-intensive and would, by nature, represent an unnegotiable burden for this budget. Therefore, one part of the proposals was not further directed. The five proposals that remain for the second, final, reading are under consideration. 1. - Mrs Regina Lochmele's proposal. The essence of this is that in parallel to students in general education, vocational education institutions, or students... include or extend the norm to higher education. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U54	Let us start a debate. Name (Sound Break) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U55	Hello, colleagues! We continue the theme of students under 20 years of age. We continued to try to correct the errors that really led to gross injustice. Once again, a EUR 500 lump sum was allocated to the national family allowance. It turned out that the state is sorting out after completing secondary school all students in two groups - those who continue to study in vocational schools, vocational schools or techniques, and those who have already become students when they go to university. I don't know, for really incomprehensible reasons... It is enough for the young person to enter the university when it turns out that the family no longer needs a state family allowance. My proposal is, in my opinion, a really very logical proposal - to correct this error. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the reservation mentioned at the committee meeting rejecting my proposal (as Mr Teirumnieks said, it is an intolerant burden on the public budget) is not true, because if we are talking, for example, about a EUR 500 allowance for this group of young people, who are just over four thousand, then the budgetary burden would be EUR 2 200 000. But if we now accept our proposal... my proposal and let us give these young students families the opportunity to receive a state family allowance until they reach the age of 20, which will cost the state budget annually, please count from EUR 1 320 600 to about EUR two and a half million. It's simple, well... not knowing who the child is this student in the family. If first, it is really EUR 1 320 000. I do not think that in our country this year, these 1 320 000 are really an intolerant financial burden, as Mr Teirumnieks said. Please support my proposal, and in this way we could correct this injustice by acknowledging that young students, young university students, are also our Latvian children who need support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U56	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Teirumnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U57	Yes, I would just like to remind you that the discussions were really quite serious and that opinions were different. It was also stressed that students in higher education institutions are now also able to receive scholarships. There is also provision for scholarship support for students who are children of large families, that is, if this reform of the family state allowance is implemented... and, as the case may be, EUR 160 per month provided for. So in the Commission too, the majority decided that 1. - Regina Lochmele's proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U58	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Mrs Regina Lochmele's proposal! Please vote mode! For - 23, for - 47, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U59	2. - Julia Stepanenko's proposal. Neither is it supported. This provided for a monthly amount of EUR 34 per child allowance.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U60	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U61	Dear colleagues, I am very, very sorry that I do not have the opportunity to vote in favour of the proposal that went ahead of me in the committee table. And I am very sorry that the author of its proposal, Anita Muižniece, did not act like me, which nevertheless exists on its own and tries to fight to the end for its proposals. It is about the fact that we, the whole Saeima, are willing today to support rather than my really proportional, very, very unpopular proposals in financial terms, which are much, much less and much less beneficial than the proposal by Anita Muižniece, which she was forced to withdraw next morning after the Commission, together with the same Members - Evita Zaalita-Gross and Normund Gun - initially supported this proposal, which we unfortunately do not see at the moment, and we only have my proposal, which is to be voted on. The next morning Normunds Gunna and Evita Zālīte-Gross voted this proposal, and Anita Muižniece agreed to it. Therefore, colleagues, never do the way Anita Muižniece does - first put forward his proposal and then withdraw it. I'm not going to do that! I will not do so, and I will call on you, however, to support at least my proposal, even though we would have had a real celebration for families today, because despite Imants Debtor working very carefully on the reform of the family state benefit and making very many families happy with improvements on family state benefit issues, the proposals of Anita Muižniece were much, much more generous. They fulfilled the promises made by Anita Muižniece and the UKP as a whole to the voters: 50 for the first child, 100 for the next, 150 for the third and so on. It is therefore very unfortunate that, at the moment, we will probably have to submit such proposals ourselves so that we can see Anita Muižniece vote in favour of his proposals. But if we are talking about my proposal, it is quite clear here. There is, in essence, such a certain injustice that comes from all this great job that was invested in the reform of the family state benefit. So the child who is left in a large family, the last one, is, in a way, robbed, less money is now earmarked for such children - EUR 10 less. This has, by its very nature, caused frustration in the very many elders. Families who have already raised larger children are really confused about why... That's what it's about. I understand very well those good intentions, and I understand that to count this benefit... There was also an impact on the budget. It is difficult to align all of these rags with the dross, but yet we see that we have quite a lot of financial resources coming in, we have a great deal of opportunities. We see how money is spent on various other projects. And these 18 million, as calculated by the Ministry of Finance, if I remember correctly, is nothing in substance, compared to all other expenditures, but it would really ensure at least fair treatment for families where there is a reduction for one child. This should not be the case, so this reduction must not happen. I really call on you, honourable colleagues, if not on the proposal of Anita Muižniece, who... We would have had a really solemn moment today, very sorry that she withdrew this proposal that her colleagues supported it... At least I could support it if at least that is the case. Thank you, colleagues. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U62	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U63	Colleagues! I now turn to... You know... I would ask all the members of the Saeima to listen to me in my speech. I will also ask you to listen to the representatives of the so-called Members of the Saeima's liberal wing in my speech. If you don't support the proposal now by Julia Stepanenko, you'll get a desire to give birth - you know what? Women around 40 years of age - shortly before 40 and right after. Women who have a chance to give birth and for whom the first or second child has already reached adulthood. You know, it's enough for doctors to say, "You are old to have a baby." But are these children really unnecessary in our country? Are these children really suddenly becoming like Mrs Stepanenko rightly said - cheaper? Compared to how much money gets today - nine euros cheaper. Whether those nine euros are worth not supporting this proposal and calling such a deep feelings of bitterness for these women who have allowed them to be born at a good age, about 40, this last child. I really very much ask all Members to reflect, perhaps there are a few seconds to go, and to find an opportunity to support these children and their mothers. Also - to motivate Latvian women to feel in themselves... become mothers at the age of 40 and even later, as healthcare goes ahead and develops. I hope that Anita Muižniece, who has just applied, will also support this proposal, because I will always stand for women. Yes, yes, yes, yes! Think about it, you are devoting nine euros to these women now. You say, those women who give birth every year are worthy of them, but those whose children were born at a great difference are not worthy of you. That is what you want to say with this rule, which was voted on by the Commission. Therefore, please support Mrs Stepanenko's proposal, because it is an opportunity to correct this error, and I hope that it will be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U64	Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U65	Hello, dear colleagues! I must say this: thank you to Mrs Stepanenko for... I don't know, I think you named my name here some 20 times. Of course, any advertising is also good in politics, but perhaps it is appropriate to explain why and what kind of proposal was tabled and why we cannot vote on it today. Firstly, I would definitely like to say that we have reached such a historic decision in this parliamentary term at all - a significant increase in the amount of family state benefits that have not been done in previous years. This, in my view, is only welcome under any circumstances. Secondly, of course, this vision may differ from one party to another in the programmes of each party. Indeed, the new conservative is of the opinion that this rise should be much more generous, namely EUR 50 per child, EUR 100 per child, EUR 100 per two and EUR 150 per three or more children in the family, but also needs to be understood in terms of its ability and strength in politics. Listening to the fact that this proposal is paying, if I remember correctly, 113 million, and realising that it simply will not have any coverage at the moment (I personally do not know where this amount can be found in this budget, namely in the budget for next year), being responsible and understanding that presenting proposals that simply need to be supported in order to be supported, as the whole opposition often does, is absolutely neither responsible nor correct. In my opinion, this offer is also quite, quite good... And actually good. So that's the situation. But, of course, thank you to Mrs Stepanenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U66	Name (Sound Break) ... for the second time in the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U67	Colleagues, I am listening to Mrs Muižniece, and I hear she denies the opposition that the opposition is submitting something to be supported. In general, Members do, and you, Mrs Muižniece, do. Perhaps, in order to honour the promises made to the voters, you have tabled this wonderful proposal, which you yourself have also withdrawn within 24 hours, even within less than 24 hours, after the whole opposition and some of the coalition colleagues (CPV LVs and also your own colleagues) supported it. The proposal supported by the committee would indeed also have meant support at the Saeima sitting. But in order to avoid such a shame for your reputation and also to try to get out of the situation in some way, you had to ask your colleagues to vote on this proposal. It really is, in my opinion, very, very unfair to the whole of society, also to your constituents, because we remember how you fought before the parliamentary elections for believing the voters and so that you can fulfil this promise. Now that you have fulfilled this promise and have also received a positive vote in the Commission, you are also spoiling this positive vote on the next day, within 24 hours. This is not good, it does not really promote positive practices in your work. We very much hope that, next time there is this item on the agenda, you will vote in favour. But at the moment, at least support my proposal, which is less financial-intensive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U68	We are continuing the debate. Name of Member (Sound defect.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U69	Hello! I do not know what Mrs President said because I did not hear and I do not hear regularly. But when we talk about this proposal, we have such an interesting situation in Latvia. You already know that we have a cooperation agreement with other parties and when we have to fight... For example, when we are fighting for a reduction in real estate tax, adequate family state benefits, the inequitable minimum, of course, is being called up in front and back. But when it is to be fulfilled by itself, its standards appear not to be working. It is clear that the first step must be taken, and that the first step is this reform. Then the words "Centre for Demographic Affairs" must really be welcomed for achieving at least this... either, a compromise vision of the family state benefit reform from the system, where it was paid for the number of children, to the system, now when it was paid for the children in real care. Plus another component that needs to be taken into account: there are social scholarships in the field of education, in higher education, aimed at large families of children where a child has already reached adulthood. It's like that, so... To clarify what Mrs Muižniece said, it is important that this first step (and I really perceive it as the first step) should not in any way be taken as actions that could... where someone could say that it is a torpegisation, because it is important for us to have this transformation from old to new model. After this has happened, we can talk about it... to present the amount of the corresponding allowances for each child. This is, of course, a compromise. Personally, I am not fully satisfied with this, because that is not the case, let us say, with the evidence that families of a number of children, where someone has grown up, can actually face this reduction, which is, of course, compensated for by those social grants, which are also sufficiently politely foreseen from 1 September of this year. But, of course, people and society may not perceive it in the same way and do not bind these things, they see what enters into the bank account. This is also seen and appreciated by the public. Therefore, in general, I thank Anita Muižniece, who has tabled this proposal, namely, her own proposal. I think that we will come early or late to the point that this nuance will be corrected in a way that is understandable to the public, but in general, we cannot allow the taking of the first step, namely the change of patterns, to be delayed until it is possible that it is not possible at all to adopt it in time - this particular law. It is important that it is adopted quickly enough, given that the date of entry into force is 1 January, in order to have any transitional period of at least half a year. That is also an explanation why we are allowing it to move forward quickly enough. Thank you to all those people who have written letters to me, probably also to other Members for these details, which are still to be resolved in this model. I hope that other Members will also agree and support the new conservative model proposed by the New Group, which was logical and based on data. I would like to emphasise that it is the pressure of society on all these matters that is of great importance... and even as simple things as outdoor terraces. The whole Saeima would not have voted if there were no such great social pressure... and to remain a minority of those who submit, say, to you. So thank you to the public. This specific proposal from the opposition, of course, which is not coordinated, nor marked by fiscal sources, is, of course, to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U70	Name of Member (Sound Break) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U71	Hello! I think Feldman (A sound break.) ... ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U72	Dear Members, Honourable Members! I very much hope and trust that all technical problems have been resolved. We continue to work on the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits”. Debate on 2. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko. I ask Mrs Ločmele to apply again to the debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U73	Colleagues! When I listen to Mr Feldman's speech, which was passionate and, in my opinion, supporting Mrs Stepanenko's proposal, I will ask both Mr Feldman and all of the UK... all the Members voted in favour of the proposal by Julia Stepanenko, which, as we have heard, is almost identical to the one by Anita Muižniece, which she has withdrawn. According to Mr Feldman's rhetoric, the UK as a whole supports this proposal, but does not want to support it simply because it is once again a proposal from the opposition, which seems to be uncoordinated. Then there is the question, are you really sure that this proposal is not supported by the public or even by your constituents, and do you really suspect that your Voters, the Voters, will not support this proposal? I think that you now have an excellent opportunity to show that you are ready to correct this family social support system in a way that is consistent with both the withdrawn proposal from Anita Muižniece and the current proposal - almost identical to Mrs Muižniece's proposal - by Julia Stepanenko. Please show the people and your constituents that you are indeed ready to support the change of the social aid system mentioned in the proposal to your ideal neighbour. Thank you. Let's vote 'for'!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U74	The debate is closed. Mr. Teirumnieks, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U75	I would just like to remind you that the Commission was informed from the Centre for Demographic Affairs that these reforms were designed in close connection with the very wide presence and participation of experts, also involving organisations representing the interests of parents, and a compromise was found that was already voted at first reading. I would also like to quote from the Ombudsman of the Republic of Latvia that, in the Ombudsman's opinion, the amount of lost benefits for those families who will fall as a result of the reform will be compensated by scholarships for students of large-child children. So, in fact, the next step is social scholarships for university students... families that have grown up or are in the process of being raised must say so, raised children and who are also actively involved in the education of young people. On behalf of the Commission, with regard to Julia Stepanenko's application, I can only say that it was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U76	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! About - 28, against - 53, abstaining - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U77	3. - a proposal from Members Dūrīša, Golubeva, Chakša, Voika and Puce. Provision is made for the granting of national social benefits to be extended to cohabiting partners or family members. This was not supported by the Commission, but rather a rather broad debate. In essence, the Commission considered that consideration of this proposal might need to be continued in the future.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U78	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U79	Dear President, Dear colleagues, I would like to justify why we believe that it is worth supporting this proposal, by which we call for the benefit defined in Article 6... the right of the parent to apply for payment not only to the spouse but also, possibly, to the cohabiting spouse or other family member with whom the parent is bringing up. In the November judgment, the Constitutional Court established that it is not lawful and appropriate to discriminate against non-marital partners. We believe that this article, in the version that is currently being proposed in this draft law, unfortunately discriminates against unmarital partners who bring up children together. And we call for this amendment to prevent this particular case of discrimination. We heard arguments that it would be difficult to determine whether these two people really raised these children together. We believe that, given that the parent is expected to apply to the relevant national authorities, the parent is, in essence, obliged to provide information which is in line with the truth. If a person pretends to be raising children with someone, and this is not the case in reality, then there is also the legal responsibility to provide false information to public authorities. Hence, we do not think that this argument is well - founded and that it would be reasonable for us to apply this option to the older partner. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U80	Name to Member Ilmar Duritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U81	Hello, very honourable Mrs. Lībiņa-Egnere! High honourable Members! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to call on you to support this proposal because, in fact, we see this situation, and this really results from the judgment of my colleague mentioned earlier by the Constitutional Court that we are creating a new norm in this legislative process and in this law, which is completely analogous and very similar again to the unequal situation of different families. Taking into account the best interests of the child and the actual situation of the child, this proposal is essentially intended to extend the range of people or real parents... or, let us say, those who could qualify for this benefit. I would just like to say a few things that are shown to us by the results of previous censuses in 2011, also published in the National Encyclopædia: 32 percent of all families with children live in marriage and, in fact, in an unregistered marriage, outside marriage, families with children make up 7.8 percent of all families. So it's a big number. It is difficult to say what today's figures are, but the number of non-marital families has hardly decreased. Because it's still interesting... Data show that the number of children born out of marriage has trebled since the 1990 ’ s. It accounts for as much as 43 to 45 percent of the data collected in previous censuses. Therefore, colleagues, in general very much in favour of this draft law, in fact, when assessing the many initiatives that come there, the call is simply to think about the reality and the fact that we have different families and we have parents who may not be biological parents, but who have links with a child who is responsible for the child who cares for this child. And why not give them this opportunity - get this allowance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U82	We are continuing the debate. The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U83	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I'm very kind of... different feelings were caused by Mr. Duritis's words that they only care about their children. I would like to remind you that, last week, you rejected my draft law, which aimed at removing restrictions and deadlines for lump sums for children during the pandemic. Well, you're not double-ass? And now you take care of your children. Previous - Julia Stepanenko - the proposal was on child benefit - EUR 34. You all rejected. Isn't that a double? It's an interest in... are they children’s care? I'm sorry! And now you're talking about... and referred to the fiscal impact... When airBaltic gave you 250 million because the experts asked you to do so and in some way reasoned... There was no information available to the public on the basis of which many million were allocated at all. And now you take care of your children! I'm sorry, well, don't be double-cotch! I call on my colleagues to reject this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U84	I closed the debate. Mr. Teirumnieks, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U85	On behalf of the Commission, I would remind you that proposal 3 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U86	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the motion tabled by Members Dūris, Golubeva, Chaks, Voika and Puce! Please vote mode! For -16, for -53, for -10. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U87	4. - a proposal from Members Dūrīša, Golubeva, Chakša, Voika and Puce. Similar as the previous one and providing for the termination of the allowance... as well as including... The proposal was that it was interrupted by a cohabiting partner or family member. This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U88	Since proposal 3 has not been approved, proposal 4 cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U89	Go on. 5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U90	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U91	On behalf of the Commission, please support the second, final reading of the draft law amending the Law on State Social Benefits.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U92	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Shares and Corporate Governance”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy - Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U93	Hello! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has prepared for second reading an urgent draft previously recognised law “Amendments to the Law on the Management of Shares and Companies of Public Persons”. I would remind you that the draft law is intended to ensure the order of the Cabinet of Ministers on the increase of the share capital of the state joint stock company “Riga International Airport” and the requirements of paragraph 60 of the Communication from the European Commission on Temporary Framework for State aid measures in support of the economy in the current situation of the Covid-19 outbreak. The draft law at second reading contains nine proposals. 1. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is envisaged to supplement the draft law with a new point 20 of the first paragraph of Article 1, defining what the recapitalisation instrument is. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U94	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U95	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Relating to Proposals 3 and 8, which prohibit the Board or the Board from bringing persons to justice with or without conviction. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U96	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U97	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Related to previous and 8th proposals. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U98	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U99	4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Editable. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U100	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U101	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U102	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U103	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U104	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U105	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U106	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U107	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The time limit for entry into force of the rules supported by proposals 2 and 3. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U108	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U109	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. On the time of entry into force of the law. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U110	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U111	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call for support to be given to the draft law at second, final, reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U112	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Equity Shares and Corporate Governance”! Please vote mode! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on Arms Movement Act, third reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U113	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! In this particular draft law, no proposals have been received for the third reading, and I therefore call for support for this draft law to be adopted at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U114	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law "Amendment to the Law on the Movement of Arms" in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! For - 71, for - no, for - 2. The law is passed. Next - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Personal Data”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Aldis Gobzems. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U115	Hello, colleagues! Thus, before the third reading, the Legal Commission examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Personal Data” (No. 890/Lp13). No proposals have been tabled for the third reading. Please approve the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U116	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Personal Data” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the law on security activities, third reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Ivan Klementjev. Please! Mr. Clementyev, we don't see you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U117	Hello! Just a minute. So, now, for one second. Dear Members, We examine the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security Activities”, third reading. 17 proposals have been put forward and examined by the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U118	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U119	2. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Girgen. The Commission clarified and supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U120	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U121	3. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U122	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U123	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U124	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U125	5. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Girgen. The Commission was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U126	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U127	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U128	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U129	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U130	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U131	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Girgen. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U132	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U133	9. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Girgen. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U134	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U135	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Girgen. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U136	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U137	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U138	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U139	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Article 14.1 shall be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U140	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U141	13. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Girgen. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U142	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U143	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Girgen. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U144	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U145	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Girgen. Partially supported and included 16. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U146	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U147	16. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U148	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U149	17. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U150	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U151	The Commission has examined all 17 proposals. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U152	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security Activities” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U153	Dear President, Colleagues! In its meeting of 27 April this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption discussed draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Land Guard” (No. 784/Lp13) at third reading. The Commission received three proposals in the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Land Guards”. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U154	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U155	2. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. The second paragraph of Article 1 of the draft law is to be supplemented with the words ‘or the authorised commander (head) of the National Armed Forces Commander’. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U156	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U157	3. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. Editative nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U158	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U159	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I invite the Saeima to support the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Land Guards” at the third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U160	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Land Guards” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Administration of Prisons, third reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U161	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Seven proposals have been received in this draft law, all of which are editorial. 1. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. An editorial clarification of the use of the words “use” and “use” in this draft law. Partially supported, included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U162	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U163	2. - also the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Janis Bordens. In addition, editorial clarifications on the right of officials to survey persons to check whether they are under the influence of alcohol or drugs in their places of detention. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U164	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U165	3. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. As I said earlier, this is about those words “use” and “use”. This is about ‘use’ or ‘use’ weapons or special methods of fighting. This editorial clarification was established in the form of a Commission proposal and is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U166	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U167	4. - also the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Janis Bordens. It's about the same thing, just... For the same words, ‘use’ and ‘use’, but they apply a little further to other articles of the law. The Commission has partially supported and included 5. - the proposal drawn up by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U168	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U169	So five. - As I have just mentioned, the Commission's proposal. The use or use of special means of fighting, means and weapons. Editative clarification. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U170	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U171	6. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Transitional provisions on the procedure for the survey of persons arrested and convicted or not under the influence of alcohol. This is also a clarification. Partially supported, included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U172	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U173	Last, 7th. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. On transitional provisions, on these checks on the use of alcohol and drugs by prisoners and convicted persons. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U174	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U175	Consequently, all proposals in this draft law have been examined. I call for support to be given to this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U176	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law on “Amendments to the Law on the Administration of Prisons” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for the next break in the sitting. Only registration of participants. It's been a success. Adjournment at the sitting until 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U177	Colleagues! We will continue to work on the agenda for the first remote emergency session on 6 May this year. Please, electronically... On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Property”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ralph Nemiro.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U178	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! This draft law has been drawn up... Draft law of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. The draft law is closely related to the draft law... The Forest Law... which has already been approved by the Saeima at third reading. This draft law provides for the alienation of trees in the context of the construction of Rail Baltica. I would therefore ask for urgency to be established for this draft law, initially on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U179	Members have not applied to speak about urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Expropriation of Public Property” as urgent! Please, let's vote! For -63, against -no, refrain -2. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U180	Thank you, colleagues. As I said earlier, this draft law relates precisely to the timber resulting from the construction of the Rail Baltica road. In the Commission, this draft law was supported for the first reading. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U181	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Property” at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U182	Colleagues, the deadline for tabling proposals is 10 May and the deadline for second reading is 13 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U183	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 10 May this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 13 May this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juris Jurash.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U184	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! The Legal Commission examined and conceptually supported the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks” (No. 1033/Lp13). The draft law was designed to mitigate the harmful effects of gambling by providing that in future the retail sale of alcoholic beverages is prohibited at gambling venues. Prohibition of alcohol consumption in gaming halls would contribute to the ability of the gambling player to maintain control of the ongoing and reduced excessive passions, the risks of gambling. The number of offences in and around the gaming halls would also be reduced. It is under the influence of alcohol that various offences are committed in the places where gambling is organised and in their immediate vicinity. Alcohol and gambling - it is a socially dangerous combination, so it is in the public and public interest not to allow the gambling player right there in the gaming hall to increase the loss of control over the gambling by using the alcohol offered there. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U185	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks”! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U186	The deadline for submitting proposals is 3 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U187	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 3 June this year. Draft law “Amendments to law on the prevention of conflict of interest in the activities of public officials”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission – Member Karina Sprūde.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U188	President of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, On 28 April of this year, the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government reviewed in its meeting the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of State Officials” (No. 703/Lp13). The draft law is based on a conceptual report on changing the model of internal governance of universities. The report sets out the composition and minimum requirements of the council of state-established universities for its members. The Council will also be provided with external expertise. The composition of the Council will be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. According to the report, the board members will be state officials. They will have to submit a declaration of the state official in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Law “On Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of State Officials”, but the amount of information included in the public part of the declaration will be reduced. The draft law provides that a member of the council of a higher education institution must submit a declaration of a state official, but only part of it is publicly available - firstly, information about the remuneration received for the performance of the official's duties and, secondly, about other posts in public person institutions, capital companies, associations and foundations. After hearing experts from the Commission... I would like to say a little bit about the views and concerns expressed by the Commission, so... On the other hand, the Ministry of Education and Science and the Centre for the Coordination of Reconnaissances has supported this draft law. The Ministry of Education and Science, on behalf of Dmitri Stepanov... I want to tell you that he thinks the University Law... The discussions strengthen the fact that university councils will be implemented, so the members of the council will be officials and will have to submit income declarations. The tasks of the members of the Board of Directors of universities and state-owned companies are similar and therefore the approach should be similar. Mr Stepanov also said... and called for support to be given to the principle that the proportion to be published should be linked only to the income generated by the Council in order to attract high-skilled professionals, including from the private sector, from universities and state-owned companies. Private sector employment contracts are often a condition that the remuneration received cannot be published. In turn, Peteris Vilks, the head of the Transparency Coordination Centre, said that the goal was to attract as many individuals as possible from the private sector as possible. And in the process of selecting board members... is faced with the fact that the members of the board do not want to stand as a public limited company. And potentially... may provide that also for the post of higher education councils... There is an obligation to submit public declarations with a very wide range of information, including on private income in the commercial sector. Employment contracts may even indicate that information on income cannot be made public. It limits... to participate in competitions and to stand as members of the Council. I stress that law enforcement authorities would have access to all information but would not be made public. Information on remuneration in the public part of the official’s work, as well as information on various contracts of the company, has been found. This would be sufficient to attract professionals from the private sector. In turn, the Legal Bureau... Mr Danovsky objected that he believed that the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, when examining the draft law... attention was drawn to the fact that the draft law provides for an exception for a limited number of officials. There have been no arguments that make these two groups - the members of the university council and the members of the board of state capital companies - more specific than the other groups of public officials with the same problems. Mr Danovska also said that by supporting this draft law in such a wording, it would be a violation of Article 91 of the Satversme, a violation of the principle of equality. Why these two groups... such a favourable (not to be heard) ... is not clear. Danovskis also said that it was possible to agree on criteria that distinguish between different treatment groups. KNAB representatives... Anna Alošina took part from KNAB, who expressed her... and drew attention to the fact that the public will not have access to information on the real estate of public officials, vehicles, loans granted, debts, transactions in excess of 20 minimum monthly salaries and relatives. In fact, 90 per cent of the declarations made by officials will not be made available to the public. The amendments will also affect the most important state and municipal capital companies, such as “Latvian State Forests”, airBaltic, “Latvian Railway”. During the discussions with the non-governmental sector, it became clear that the main problem was concerns about political interference on the scale of remuneration. National language question as a criterion... Only one in 10 respondents replied that they did not want to stand as a board member because of the public part of the declaration. In this version, shareholders will lose the possibility of creating an internal control system, the possibility of supervision... the work of the members of the Board. An alternative version was considered by KNAB, because if the problem is that the income from the private sector is a business secret, then an alternative draft law could be drawn up, which would provide that in cases where an employer in the private sector would have recognised as a business secret... official would submit information to the State Revenue Service, but in public space this information would be available in the form of a range – for example, from zero to... 20 minimum wages. But from 20 to 50 minimum wages and so on, grouping together... KNAB said that there would be no concrete figures. This option would be proposed for absolutely all groups of officials and would exclude unequal treatment, which would strike a balance between the public's right to transparency and the rights of officials with regard to the business secrets of employers. Additional financial resources would be necessary for the State Revenue Service to implement IT solutions. The Rector Council - Jānis Bernatas - objected to this draft law, who believes that state universities have been mentioned unreasonably, because most of the discussion is about the members of the councils of state capital companies. The opportunity was used to guide this draft law now under the cover of the Law on Higher Education because otherwise there would be much greater public resistance and media involvement. The opposition is from the Board of Directors, from KNAB, from the Ministry of Finance, from the Society for Transparency - Delna. Negative bill has been handed over to the Saeima, brother - Jānis Bernatas' names. Disproportionate. In universities... many posts have a much smaller function... For example, a member of an arbitration panel... Exam Commission... receives little or no remuneration. However, the declaration must be made in full. ‘ The public - Delna (Agnija Birule) stressed that it is not in favour of this draft law, because it is about ensuring that the public and the media have the greatest opportunity to get to know and analyse what is happening to the state property, what are the interests of the members of such councils. After hearing experts from the Commission and the Legal Bureau, the Commission decided to reject the draft law. I therefore call on the Commission to vote against this draft law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U189	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U190	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, again! I would like to outline some of the main reasons why such a draft law was created. The rapporteur had already told the discussion very well, very precise and multifaceted. It has to be said that such discussions are not only now, it was more than a year ago, when the Ministry of Education and Science moved amendments to the Law of the University of Higher Education to the Cabinet of Ministers; then we met with both representatives of KNAB and representatives of “Delna” as well as others involved and talked about this regulation. And that's the most important thing that went out, that one of the crucial things in this package of amendments to the University Law... One of the main objectives is to involve in university management professionals from the private sector, professionals who are respected in society, who are able to look strategically at the performance and development of universities and universities. And unlike other Council works, this is not like that... It is not a full-time job, it is not something where private sector representatives, such as business leaders, would make money; they could probably even give up on it and would be prepared to do so if it relieves them of this bureaucratic burden that comes with the responsibilities of a public official. Consequently, long discussions with all partners and all of them have actually reached such a compromise, a compromise that these Council members are officials in universities. There was also a proposal that there might not be any officials... And so these people, including these members of the Council, will have to make a full declaration, as the rapporteur has already said. The only difference will be that not all of this will be visible. So part of this declaration will be visible to all law enforcement institutions - the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau, the State Revenue Service and all others - but will not be visible to the general public. And here... If we're talking really about company managers and people of such a level, then... The main thing they don't want... and has also been certified by various experts, the Transparency Coordination Centre has also indicated... and the Centre for Corporate Governance has also pointed out that this bureaucratic burden is much greater for experts at this level than perhaps even some of its financial obligations, and so on, so as to be involved in this type of work at all. Colleagues! Here you have to understand that such people will be involved in university councils with... Now, most probably, with such motivation to really help the higher education system with which they are linked in their professional activities, to grow and develop, to become more competitive and... strategic, maybe to invest their resources. And not just. So... After long, long negotiations, this is the compromise that has been proposed. I will call for this to be supported. It has to be said that in the initial offer of the Ministry of Education and Science, this conditional derogation only applied to the council of higher education... to these members, not to representatives of other councils, who are attached here from the Coordination Centre of the Peresors. But also this section of the Transparency Coordination Centre... Why they chose to add, say, this part of the regulation, they have publicly explained, they have told their motivation in turn. However, in order for us to achieve the common goal of amending the University Law, so to implement one of the major reforms adopted in this Saeima, namely to make the whole system more open, to make it more competitive, to attract outstanding, successful representatives of society in their industry who know how to work in their own sector and who could really help universities with their strategic vision as such... With, I must say, almost like, giving back to society, giving this kind of support to universities... it's worth it, I think, to come to them against this peninsula, even this peninsula, and tell them that at least they won't have to show them all their income... all they have gained and continue to gain in their private activities, but that they will see, of course, both the KNAB and other law enforcement bodies. That is why I think this is proportionate... that the public interest has been assessed in a proportionate manner in this draft law and can be supported. I ask you, colleagues, to support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U191	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U192	Hello, colleagues! I would like to point out some of the arguments raised during the examination of this draft law by the Commission, as well as to draw your attention to some inaccuracy that Mr Znotiņš has not pointed out. Firstly, he called this bill a compromise. It is not true, because representatives of the Anti-Corruption Bureau informed members of the Commission that KNAB had, for its part, offered a true compromise to the Coordination Centre for Peresors, as this norm could be expressed, but for unknown reasons - the Anti-Corruption Office for unknown reasons! - this proposal (really it was a compromise proposal!) not accepted. In particular, KNAB offered that members of the board who still work somewhere else (in other commercial companies) could indicate their salary... not accurate remuneration, but... Well, let's say, in some interval - from five to 10 minimum wages and so on... and provide that no remuneration shall be required if a remuneration is established as a business secret within the firm in question. Of course, I indicated in the debate that, if there is a reservation on business secrecy, it will not be difficult for any business to determine, by a specific decision of the board, precisely that the remuneration information is to be regarded as a business secret. But... Well, it's a nuance. There are much more important things that did not lead to this draft law being supported by the Commission. We are talking about people who will get a good salary for having them make a professional and honest decision about millions. This is about state universities - capital companies with a share of state capital. Don't forget that it's not just about university councils! Paragraph 2 here concerns public limited liability companies. Once again, these people will make decisions, deal with public wealth, with public finances, with budgetary money, in millions of years this will be all. And you, Mr Znotiņš, would like to say that these people, who will make such decisions and who will have a very good salary, will have a disproportionate bureaucratic burden once a year to fill in the declaration of officials?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You're serious... Is that so?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Those who do not know, I think, will be able to draw a small fraction from their remuneration to pay, for example, an accounting officer who will help them to fill in this declaration by the official of the country. The most important thing here is what the story is about. The story is that we want to improve the work of public universities, the capital company with public capital. A reservation that no one wants to... means just one thing: you want to say that in our country there is a lack of such professionals, people who are prepared to work for the country, for a good salary, honest and open, because they have nothing to hide from the rest of society. An absolutely correct representative of the Legal Bureau pointed out that this exception, which has been fixed in this draft law proposed to us, is absolutely illogical, is not logical from the point of view of national interests or even from the point of view of legal practice, because this exception is disproportionate for other people who have to carry out an annual declaration from the official of the State. Please vote against this bill. For state institutions - both ministries and the Transparency Coordination Centre... in cooperation with NGO sector and KNAB... there is an opportunity to correct your brother and prepare a bill that will be voted on by the majority of the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U193	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U194	President-in-Office of the Council. Colleagues! Thank you to the previous speakers who discussed in detail the discussions that have been in the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government. I am not working in this commission, but I understand very much all its concerns and their content... What has been said there. And I would like to talk about how it looks from the point of view of the sector, in this case from the point of view of the education sector (of course I will not be taking the right to speak on behalf of the whole sector). In essence, we're talking about two... even on three topics that interact with each other. One of these topics is the involvement of professionals in university management. Professionals from other fields... through these councils... The second topic is the partial transfer of power or decision-making to these councils in universities. And the third subject covered by this draft law is how to ensure, through this transfer of power, that the principles of good governance are not violated and that corruption is not demonstrated... indications of corrupt practices, because this law is, however, the law that is a means of preventing corruption. We must therefore assess all these topics in general. And, in my opinion, the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government has also tried to do this, but in my view, a few nuances remain behind the frame. And I'll try to tell you about them now. First. As you know, the amendments to the Law on Higher Education are now being directed towards the third reading. The Commission is working on this, over 220 proposals, the Commission has reached 126 if I do not beg you, but the main proposals that come up with these things... they are proposals on the responsibility of the university board... Proposals 153, 158... those proposals have not yet been the subject of discussion. And the version of the second reading... The responsibility of the Council as such was not integrated in the Law on Higher Education... in financial terms. And to a large extent what we're talking about here should be combined with what will then be education... which the Law on Higher Education will provide for in relation to these issues of responsibility. And until it's decided... In my opinion, we are currently riding wheels in front of the horse, because we are talking about general things, but usually the devil is hiding in detail. The second thing I want to talk about is that these proposals, if we are talking about the university sector, are now limited to national university councils. But also in Latvia's situation... There are also councils in private universities, and there are a number of private universities that have already received public funding for certain objectives in the past, i.e. public funding. And in this case, if we look at the conflict of interest law... It seems to me that the members of the university councils will also be those who will then be subject to these responsibilities of the official of the State, including the obligation to make a declaration. And this exception, which we only make... which is limited to officials of public universities by this draft law, these members of national university councils will be placed in an unequal situation vis-à-vis members of private university councils. In the current situation, when the rectors of private universities are also public officials... It is not only because they sign diplomas awarded on behalf of the state, but also because really through private universities you can go - if there is a delegation, you can go! - also public funding. We should not forget that! However, I do not think about this at all. One more thing. Here it has already been said whether these integrated rules are proportionate... proportionate to the other officials currently defined. Now more than ten... No, it is now for at least 15 years that the members of the Senate of the university, including students, are public officials. And that means that they have to make a full declaration from a public official, even though, in financial matters, it ultimately comes about perhaps only once a year - when they decide on the budget; maybe a few times a year. In turn, university councils will be management bodies, which will have to decide on large financial flows on a regular basis. Moreover, there will have to be decided both on the funds coming from the national budget from different funds and on the money that passes through the university... Even though that money has come through the private... from the private sector, from the university itself, it becomes public money. And there will also have to decide on inherited things, which are also in essence... if it has been inherited by a state university, it is essentially equivalent to a form of public funding... or public assets - it would be better to say that. So, from this point of view, the fact that those who will have the right to decide not only on strategy issues, but also on the direction of sufficient cash flows... the fact that those people will be much smaller... that public visibility of how their wealth has increased will be much less than, let us say, with regard to the technical secretaries of the student or university who are members of the Senate - this is disproportionate in my view, and I agree with what the representative of the Law Office, Mr Danovska, has said - that perhaps we can really see violations of Article 91 of the Satversme here, at least breach of the principles. These are the things that make me, too, doubtless to say that so perhaps if I want to, through the draft laws that have been drawn up in this way... There are many more questions left than answers. And that is why I am calling for no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U195	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U196	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I, too, will call on the Saeima not to support this draft law and I will explain why. The situations in which we have seen the law “On the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of Public Officials” have been different... and the issue of declarations by officials - in particular. And in this case, we are starting to address this issue from a completely wrong point of view. I'll be back... A little more... We've had situations before when... there are organisations which, for various reasons, even for international demands... there has been a limitation on the number of people who may apply and who may take up positions in some kind of... in one or other association, in a foundation where those persons also have the status of official. And there are also issues in the commission responsible that have been resolved, and there are issues that have not been resolved, such as, for example, the question of members of the Council of Sworn Advocates of Latvia; it is still hanging in the air. But, for example, the International Olympic Committee's request for independent medicine... the medical professionals who had to be in this commission created the conditions that there was a very limited number of people who could be contacted to take part in this independent commission - the anti-doping commission... The Saeima came to a decision that this was an exception. And it was clear to the public why such an exception is made. The same applies to sworn auditors. And I'm sure we still have to think about lawyers and some other areas that... Such improvements and this approach to the status of official should be reviewed as such. But now what is being offered... Colleagues are offered in two areas. So, higher education... Councils of universities and large capital companies, where... It is offered to build... that these members of the Councils will be relieved of the requirements for the part to be published. If the question is precisely about this section to be published - it is already one of the greatest declarations of officials... the sense that this section to be published, so that it can be made available to journalists, the public... Mr Znotiņš, defending this draft law, mentioned these services, institutions, - the State Revenue Service... that everyone will be available... These services are already all available; they do not in particular need a declaration from an official to assess a person's income; they can do so without declarations from officials. However, for the public, for all those who follow, this is an important aspect: for such an approach to exist. Now... a situation has arisen that at a time when we have more than ten thousand officials... that we have officials who have completely disproportionately high this burden... who are officials who are technicians of technical work and who... is very rich in addition to that... who are the technical operators who have to implement... who are required to complete a document once a year, maybe once a year... where they are members of a commission or support staff... And they make these declarations to the same extent... as the Members of the Saeima do, as the President of Latvia does. For them, these requirements are, in my opinion, absolutely disproportionate to the amount of work they do. But at the same time, big companies like the Latvian Railways, such as board members... Like airBaltic... then here we say that these capital companies... that these people who come to work in these capital companies have these relaxed conditions... In my opinion, this is absolutely an agile, the wrong approach in nature, because... There are politicians who like to talk about facts and fact-based decisions. Then there they are. Every tenth person who has admitted that a declaration by an official is a reason... one in ten has recognised that a declaration by an official is a reason why he does not start up to a board of limited liability companies or to any other position where this requirement is required. Under these circumstances, I think that the problem is not as big as it is currently trying to present, and these statistics have been presented by the Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Office, which I think works quite a lot on a daily basis on this issue. In my opinion, this approach is completely lost at the very root. If we start to support such a law... such draft laws... and I'm surprised that the government has prepared something like that and now the Saeima is offering... If we support this kind of draft laws, we are taking a huge step backwards - from the point of view of openness and public information - because it will be precisely the most important positions - large capital companies and national university councils on which... At the moment, there is a lot of talk about that it will be a panacea and that it is these councils that will lead us to move immediately towards the top of the university. But the people involved in university affairs, such as the Board of Directors, strongly object and point out exactly that these university councils will potentially be... make very important strategic decisions and list a number of them. And the same is true for the boards of the capital companies. This is a huge, huge step back to society... openness... in the opposite direction, which is now proposed by the government. I call, colleagues, on us to think carefully, to understand why the Saeima Commission rejected this draft law and, in principle, this draft law should be rejected. The government must also draw attention to the fact that the government sitting in support of... This is another draft law that the government has supported with the idea that it will have to be decided by the Saeima as well. And all these discussions about how right or wrong it is... also from non-governmental organizations, from the Anti-Corruption Bureau... these discussions were also in government sitting, but once again, given that it is a law... The government just gave this bill to the Saeima: please take and work with it, regardless of how wrong it is in essence, wrong in your root! I believe that a draft law can be drawn up if there is indeed an idea of dealing with the issues of declaration of officials. This can be done. And these questions... there are several blocks that are still disorderly - on officials who are very minor officials and on the amount of information to be given in the declaration. I think this is a very important chapter that should be dealt with. Also about the status of an official for persons who find it very difficult to combine them with their professional activities... but requires that the status of official be determined. This issue is still hanging in the air. That's... For example, the Latvian Council of Sworn Advocates... That is not right, and this should be dealt with. But this question... I think it is very hasty, and anyone who votes on this issue... if you have the idea of supporting this, then I call on you to think in the future when you talk about openness, transparency, public involvement. At this point it will all be discarded for... I would say, even for decades when... or we return to some ancient times that may not have been the best. Now new standards have been adopted, we are talking about OECD standards, we are talking about public involvement, information, openness, and these standards... At the highest political level, at senior management, they must be maintained in public administration, and this is a huge leap backwards: this proposed bill. I call for this draft law to be rejected. And if there is a desire to work on these issues, then also to work on the Saeima Commission, but from a completely different race to look at these issues. What is currently being offered is absolutely, absolutely wrong. We are going to allow people to operate in these councils and to hide their income. It will meet in the same way as with the vaccination office, for example. There was a desire to hide the income from society and, under pressure from society, everything was made public, and we see what it's all over. Here too, if such a step is taken, there will be a desire to hide something else from society. We must not allow such derogations. I call on you to vote against this bill, listen to it, look at it... Look at the documents attached to the draft law, which public organizations... the views expressed, in so far as they are also unfair to other persons who make a declaration of officials. Even on the same university issue... Also in universities... Councils... That is absolutely wrong. There will also be a full declaration by those who take on much less responsibility issues... which in everyday life works much more with university development issues, but makes less important decisions... they must be fulfilled, but those who are members of the council must not be held. Why do we want to take this step backwards if we know that one in ten respondents has pointed out that this is a problem?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It is also important to mention that for these... one in ten... There have been a number of other questions - including without the question of declarations by officials - why they are not going to these posts. So that, my fellow Members, I call for this bill to be rejected and for it to be held accountable for the issues of openness and standards that have been introduced in recent years and not to make a derogation back. In my opinion, this is also a derogation from the fundamental principles of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U197	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U198	Dear colleagues, Now, as a serial, you listen to colleagues from the National Administration and Municipal Commission that it happens that the government that sits in the Chamber, I remember very well, is written on the wall in large letters - “One Law - One Justice for All”, now sends to the Saeima such a draft law, which clearly does not respect this principle - “One Law - One Justice for All”. For some – only part of the declaration of the public official, for others – part of the declaration of the non-public official, because, otherwise, it will be difficult to see that there are too few people left in Latvia who would be ready to work if only part of the public official's declaration was made. But perhaps colleagues, this is the consequence of the fact that the government has been working away for some time and so it does not see the words “One Law - One Justice for All”. Maybe you need to put something on the screen to show them at the Zoom sessions. It is also quite interesting that it comes from a party that... Does anyone, my fellow Members, still remember which party spoke the most about uncompromising rule of law before this parliamentary term? And now, the public and the non-public... Colleagues! I call on you not to support this draft law, not only for these reasons, which my colleagues working in the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government have talked about for a long time. I call on you not to support this draft law also because what is happening in the field of higher education, what this government is doing in the field of higher education, is deeply wrong. What the government is doing at the moment in the field of higher education is not even in line with this government's declaration. You see, that doesn't even fit! Yes, we have serious problems in the field of higher education. Yes, its overall quality is poor. Yes, in terms of excellence, we have a huge gap with our neighbours, especially the Estonians. I'll remind you that none of our university's world ranking is top, Estonian University of Tartu is top 500. I think it is absolutely clear to everyone in the sector that first of all - and second and third rounds too! - it's a question of funding. The same University of Tartu receives funding for one study place, which is at least twice as large as for the University of Latvia... However, despite all this, the main solution proposed by these governments, and hence the Ministry of Education and Science, is the Councils. I'm sorry, what do the councils have to do with this? Colleagues! If we look at what this government declaration says about higher education, then... I can read to you a few points: we will continue to increase the basic funding for the place of study; we will ensure an increase in the funding of the state budget for internationally competitive, excellence-oriented higher education, with at least one university in the world's top 500 universities; and we will strengthen the capacity of universities... and so on. The government declaration does not contain any words about the councils. So what the government is doing right now (this bill is part of the government's approach... higher education policy... policies in the field of higher education) - it does not even match the declaration of this government, colleagues. So, what's the matter with the councils? You could understand... I think that it would be possible to understand why councils are needed if our universities needed funding at least on the same level as the University of Tartu, for example, and with such funding the University of Tartu would be in that top 500 rating of the world, but our universities would not be in those ratings. Then, of course, the question should be raised as to whether the management of these universities is doing everything properly. And given that universities are publicly derived persons with huge autonomy, attempts by the government would be understandable, so to say, to take over or recommend to take over control or influence its universities. But - our universities are occupying international ranking places that are completely, completely appropriate to the funding that our universities receive! So, colleagues, what the government is doing in the field of higher education at the moment is that... we're just losing time. While we're here with councils and all these draft laws... with this bill, with what will come... The University Law... a very large part of the amendments to the Law on Higher Education... on the same councils... While we are doing all this, the same University of Tartu, which was the top 500 world universities two years ago, is now the top 200 world's best universities. And we haven't actually made a move, not even a step... I think we have not even taken a step towards our own, by the way, government declaration! - purpose. And maybe it's worth mentioning that there's another... at least one other sector in which... It is a transport sector and a transit sector in which the New Conservative Party is doing something similar. Overall, the sector has an unprecedented fall in turnover, income, but what the government is doing is not specifically tackling this problem in substance (a question is, of course, whether it is possible to deal with it in substance), but actually deals with management issues, as if it were the fault of these ports that Russia is now transferring all its cargo flows to other ports. So, colleagues, it comes to the conclusion that what is currently being done by the government (or at least by specific ministries) in the field of higher education and... well, it's a long example, here maybe it's not so suitable... in the field of transport, it is... that it is all simply to be able to talk about control. In essence, it does not matter to the government what is happening in the field of higher education - how strong our universities are, how competitive, how high the quality of education is. And just like what happens with transit - what is the volume of cargo and what our revenues are. It's all just because... it is about control - to be more precise, about taking over control. And, of course, while we're here... not us, but the government... while this government or part of government is dealing with control... with the fight for control, our competitors, our neighbours, continue to develop, they go ahead, they don't work with, so to say, questions about such councils... and so on. Therefore, I call on you, my fellow Members, not to support this draft law - not just because it is all very dubious (in particular from the point of view of "uncompromising justice"!) , but also because this is part of an approach that is at the root of the wrong and is implemented in the field of higher education. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U199	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U200	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, If we are talking about the draft law on "Amendments to the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the activities of public officials", I will talk about the part of the draft law relating to the declarations of public officials with the desire to limit the part to be published. Colleagues, do we therefore promote public openness? Do we therefore want to see more transparent decision-making in a sector that receives remuneration from taxpayers, from taxpayers' finances? Tax is being paid to be a reward for this sector - taxpayers' money is keeping jobs for these people who are dealing with fiscal issues, financial issues, and how we spend more than one million. Colleagues! If we want to attract excellence in the field of education in this way, we need to realise that we are making serious mistakes, because once again we show that a group is more important to us than other groups. The education sector - yes, there we want to attract some excellence, and the other sectors - no, there we can have mediocre, greying or even totally, absolutely non-professionals. Why don't we talk that to the Saeima, we don't want the Saeima to gather for excellence? Colleagues, do we think that by limiting the share to be published of the declarations of officials, we will be attracting excellence? Perhaps we have just talked to someone who is prepared to start these councils under certain conditions, and we are now perhaps fulfilling these conditions? Colleagues, I call not to support this specific version, this draft law, precisely because of this form, because we are called upon to remove a certain part of the information to be published in the declarations made by the officials. This is very important for all the political forces that form the Union of Greens/Farmers. We stand for openness not only in words but also in works, and if there is one condition, this condition must be in all sectors. You don't have to make permanent exceptions, one exception after the other. If we want the brightest minds and excellence in all sectors and in all areas, then we need to look at the whole issue, not just from the point of view of one sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U201	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U202	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues! I think that Mr Wuzan is absolutely right. Here under one law, the main thing, if not the only aim, is to prevent... at best - prevent, at worst - reduce the risks of corruption, try to include everything - good governance, good supervision, good results, good people, good wages - and so on, and so on. We already had several experiments with this law, and the last of them was that insolvency administrators were comparable... were considered public officials, despite the fact that most insolvency proceedings affected private business rather than the public sector. But one problem has appeared there - because one part of insolvency administrators is those whose main activity is insolvency proceedings, and the other part, which is important enough, is lawyers whose publicity issues are regulated by Law of the Republic of Latvia. In particular, there was a certain degree of collise on what to do in this case. And we also argued a great deal about this: to show this declaration or not to show it in the declaration. But the main thing here was what? Why did this category - the officials - appear in this process? Do you want to see how many insolvency administrators deserve when implementing insolvency proceedings? Here are other methods, other ways to achieve this. Let's say one of them... There is an insolvency administration where the results of each process are reflected, including all expenditure relating to the prevention of the particular proceedings, as well as reimbursement cases on a case-by-case basis. For those who engage in insolvency proceedings, there is a need to be public officials and to fill in the same declarations, which, by the way, are not the result of the particular proceedings but the result of an integrated operation, where it is very difficult to see and remove from the outside, where one or the other revenue, one or the other property, has appeared. That is simply about what we want to achieve. The same is true here, too, when it comes to university councils. The task of the higher education councils is to manage all the activities connected with the university, which means that they must not only lead the learning process and ensure the results of the learning process (excellence, place on top lists and so on), but are also huge administrative and economic activities, because the state's higher education sector spends extremely large amounts of financial... amounts and manages large assets. Is this the only way to manage this process? No, I think not; you can think about others as well. There is, let us say, a form that helps universities to manage economic affairs - foundations, which in turn would have assumed some responsibility for how economic activities are carried out. There would also be a completely different discussion on the governance model, which, by the way, is regulated not by this law, but by the Law on the State Administration, which sets out all these problems with sufficient precision and which should be dealt with first and foremost. And the last thing I'd like to say. For transparency, transparency. Undoubtedly, the actions of public authorities involved in the use of public funds, the use of public goods must be absolutely perfectly transparent. And there can be no debate here about whether it is an administrative burden, a bureaucratic burden... If a person is entrusted with public work and public goods, he must also be aware of the responsibility of the public... the responsibility for the responsibilities he assumes vis-à-vis the public. Therefore, it seems to me that the debate here is unnecessary. Since this proposed law does not answer any of the questions raised in today's debate, I call for it not to be supported at first reading and, however, to start with the model of public administration and its optimisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U203	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so? Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U204	On behalf of the Commission, please reject this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U205	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of Public Officials”! Please, let's vote! - 45, against - 42, abstaining - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U206	The deadline for submitting proposals is one month, 6 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U207	Thank you. So the deadline for the submission of proposals is 6 June this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”, second reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission (Sound break.) ... Colleagues, I think technical problems in the system. Is there a sound to be heard? There's a sound. So on the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U208	Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” and prepared it for second reading. Five proposals have been received. 1. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Technical and precise by nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U209	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U210	2. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Clarifying. Clarifying the submission of a report to the Financial Intelligence Service. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U211	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U212	3. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. It is also technical and precise. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U213	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U214	4. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Clarifying. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U215	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U216	5. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U217	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U218	So all the proposals have been examined. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U219	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” at second reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U220	The deadline for submitting proposals is five days.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U221	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 11 May this year. Colleagues, it's time for a break. Please note that we will continue after the break at 5.15 p.m. There's also a record of Members. Thank you. Interruption until 5.15 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U222	Dear colleagues, We keep sitting after the break. See the draft law “Amendments to the Microbusiness Tax Act”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U223	Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined the draft law “Amendments to the Microbusiness Tax Act” and prepared it for second reading. 12 proposals have been received. 1. - The proposal from Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. The Member Dombrovskis - as a Member, not as a rapporteur - will be joining immediately.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U224	So let's start the debate. However, first of all, please state the Commission's assessment of the proposal 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U225	In the Commission, proposal 1 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U226	Yeah, thank you. And now we start the debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U227	Highly honourable colleagues, again, good afternoon! I will discuss a series of proposals at once - both on this and on the next proposals, which together form a single set of proposals, a new approach to applying the new favourable tax treatment to small businesses, micro-enterprises and start-ups. This is not the first time that this set of proposals has been tabled. It was first submitted in respect of the budget package, in November last year. And there are three reasons why these proposals have now been tabled again. The first reason is that in November this set of proposals included an offer... the proposal to create a single economic account exactly on the basis of the example of Estonia, which is what the Ministry of Finance now proposes to do, and which is the whole legislative package... of the four draft laws. Perhaps you remember that this proposal was rejected by the majority of the Saeima. The policy of the Ministry of Finance then was that it would take at least two years to make such a proposal... in order to set up such a system in general, but it has now been a miracle: in a few months, the Ministry of Finance, together with the Financial Sector Association, has nevertheless developed a real mechanism for how this simplified economic account could work. So, given that both the government and, obviously, the majority of the Saeima are, it has changed their attitude and views on part of my proposals tabled in November last year, I think that perhaps you would be prepared to change your views on the favourable tax treatment as well. The second reason. You remember, of course, that the government, when drawing up the draft budget for this year, decided to significantly increase the tax burden from 1 July to more than 200,000 taxpayers working in so-called alternative regimes. We had talked quite a lot about whether it was smart - in the middle of the recession, during the pandemic - to significantly increase the tax burden on those over 200,000 people who work in these tax regimes - but then it seemed that many of you were convinced that by 1 July all will be taken away or that otherwise this pandemic will come to an end. I think it is absolutely clear today that, on 1 July, too, it is unlikely that anything will come to an end. Therefore, the question of whether it is really smart - significantly increasing the tax burden on over 200,000 people - is increasingly topical... it is actually more relevant than it was last November. And the third one. Suppressing entrepreneurship - this, colleagues, is not right, it is not wise, especially with regard to small business and business start-ups. That, colleagues, will damage economic development. I had that opinion in November, a year ago, two, five, ten years ago, and that opinion will also remain, and I will argue for... on the tax regime, the favourable starting-up of these businesses, especially small businesses... in order to promote it as much as possible. Just like... Colleagues, if we think about it, we... For example, we do not impose on our children the same requirements as those we impose on adults. There is also a small business and a business start. The same requirements should not be the same as the adult, the big business. So... the favourable tax treatment for small businesses - colleagues, this is right; one proposal is also in favour of this. I therefore call for this to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U228	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, you have reported that the proposal has not been supported. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the motion by Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U229	2. - Dombrovskis's proposal. This proposal was also not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U230	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U231	So, honourable colleagues, I shall continue on this subject. It has recently appeared here that if the Saeima does not support the government... the proposal that comes from the government, then it means that the Saeima is taking place... there has been some ‘Parliamentary accident’. Well then, I think colleagues, maybe you'd be interesting... on what is then the government's opinion on these proposals, on how to create favourable tax treatment for small businesses and business start-ups. If we, colleagues, look at the declaration by the government, the Karini Government, then it is perhaps not a great surprise that the word "business"... Try to find it! It cannot be found. Also such a name as “business” is not particularly common there, unless it is about “Latvian Railways” or airBaltic’s business plan. So the promotion of entrepreneurship is not a priority for the government, at least from the point of view of the government declaration... at least... their position can be understood. If we are talking about the debate in the Commission, colleagues, then... participated in two ministries - the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economics. ( I took the floor to express my assessment of these specific proposals.) In fact, the Ministry of Finance had two main arguments why these proposals should not be supported. The first argument for the Ministry of Finance was that this system is complex and will also be difficult to calculate, especially in the context of this single economic account. Well here, colleagues, when we go... according to those proposals, you can judge for yourself whether all this can be calculated with either six or seven... I think that, to a maximum, eight classes of education. So... I think you will agree that the assessment of the Ministry of Finance for Latvian citizens, for Latvian business... Well, that rating is not respected, it is too low. The second argument of the Ministry of Finance was that what is being offered is State aid. Here I had to remind the Ministry of Finance that a very similar system has been working in France for years. I checked it for today, too... France is a Member State of the European Union, so the argument that the European Commission could reject this as State aid is clearly out of place. The second ministry, which then expressed its appreciation of these proposals, was the Ministry of Economics, whose responsibility is, in principle, to promote entrepreneurship, at least in accordance with the regulations of the Ministry of Economics. The position of the Ministry of Economics was that, conceptually, the Ministry of Economics was in favour of favourable tax treatment for small businesses and business start-ups, but the Ministry of Economics had no time to evaluate these proposals I submitted. Well here, colleagues, I have to inform you that these proposals were tabled on 1 April and the committee meeting was about a month later, and then... For the first time, these proposals were presented in November last year. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance had sufficient time to evaluate these proposals, irrespective of their rating. The Ministry of Economy had not had enough time to evaluate this for a few months. Now, in the light of recent events, this can be understood. We now know that the Minister for Economics was very busy looking for a new party. That is why, of course, there was not enough time to evaluate proposals for a favourable business regime. Colleagues, now the substance of the proposal. The essence of the proposal is to create three groups for small business, in which... The first group, so-called merchants, are those who sell goods... In particular, by means of a typical sale of goods. This is the nature of the proposal 2. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U232	I closed the debate. As the proposal has been rejected by the Commission, let us vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Vjačeslav Dombrovsky's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 27, for - 53, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U233	3. - The proposal from Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. This proposal was also not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U234	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U235	Colleagues, a little more... so that you understand this system, which the Ministry of Finance looked so terriblely incomprehensible. You see, tax haven for business is that the tax should be applied to the difference between turnover... between gross... total revenue and business costs. So if we want to create a simplified tax regime for small business, where then... to simplify small business in the sense that administrative small business should not... we would relieve them of their obligation to make a business expense... cost accounting, and so we would also release the tax authority... The State Revenue Service also has an obligation to carry out compliance checks on these costs. And so on. We need some assumptions as to how much this share of costs in the total turnover is. So, if we have a turnover like 100,000, then... how much - as a percentage - of this turnover is the cost. Consequently, this French system is essentially... that is precisely this proposal, which... One that you have already rejected, two. ... Now there are 3 and 4 too. ... It is a matter of substance that we can talk about three broad action groups. The first is the group that is in the rejected proposal 2, which refers to... A trader - that is who sells the goods - by nature - a trader. In such a business where he deals with the sale of goods... can be said, yes, completely simplified - buying and selling... Here, of course, the proportion of so-called business costs will be quite high, because it involves at least the same product or... Well, these goods... in some intermediate stage... the purchase and subsequent resale of the same or some improved product. Consequently, this includes the assumption that such a business, its cost share in total turnover is about two thirds. Consequently, when fixing the rate of duty for such a group, it is assumed that the tax is actually levied on one third of the total turnover. The second category (that is, the 3rd proposal) is the one that creates actually unique products, if you can say so. They are called craftsmen. Craftsmen are people who are in the creative professions. It's usually people who do... Well, actually, people in the cultural field who... here is even a definition - a craftsman is one who independently creates or manufactures authors' works. Here... and that, by the way, is also in line with the guidelines of the State Revenue Service, as far as I am aware... in these creative professions, this assumption is that the proportion of business costs... in circulation... It's about 50 percent. Consequently, the following proposals also include this assumption that the permissible proportion of business costs is exactly 50 per cent. Colleagues, since there is a minute left, I will also tell you about proposal 3 so that we can move forward more quickly. The third group, on the other hand, are providers of professional services... those providing professional services. These would be, for example, accountants and those working in the beauty industry, and so on. So there's... clear, especially when compared to the first group, but also to the other group... Since it does not require so many raw materials, here the proportion of business costs is the lowest, and that could be about a third. From this we will see below, different tax rates for the three different groups and, of course, a lot... lighten the administrative burden on these people so that they can focus on their business. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U236	I closed the debate. The proposal has not been supported by the Commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Member Vjačeslav Dombrovsky's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 29, for - 48, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U237	4. - The proposal from Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. This proposal was also not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U238	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U239	Here, colleagues, closing this classification... As I said earlier, proposal 4 concerns the group of entrepreneurs who are providers of professional services. So, again... I will sum up what I have said, the nature of this approach once again. So we can ease the administrative burden for people doing business, with small business, or with business start-ups, so that these people can initially focus exactly on what they are doing - to their own business, so that they do not have to spend time and resources on accountants, on accounts... to the preparation and submission of the reports and also to allow the State Revenue Service not to spend time and administrative resources on verifying whether such a small business... for that tax... the calculated tax is, for example, EUR 110 or EUR 115... Either, from the point of view of society, it is a waste of time. But now that is what the State Revenue Service is unfortunately doing quite a lot. So the nature of these proposals is that they address all its problems, with these assumptions, with the three broad groups... three categories of entrepreneurs, taxpayers, where... these people do not need, as I said, to deal with all of this, with all of those administrative matters - with their own cost accounting, with evidence, reporting, spending on accountants and so on. And also the State Revenue Service does not need to deal with it... With that, we either save taxpayers' money, or... The State Revenue Service could focus, spend more attention, so to say, on the big fish - to the really big, serious taxpayers. Don't you, my fellow Members, see: when it comes to matters of economic importance, acute importance, there's something totally coming out here in the Saeima... absolute silence! I call for support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U240	I closed the debate. The debate has already been closed, Mr Tatar. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the motion by Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis! Please, let's vote! For - 27, for - 54, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U241	On behalf of the Commission, I can tell all those concerned, as well as Mr Tatar, that Member Dombrovskis has several more proposals in this draft law. You can apply and talk about them as well. So five. - next... 5. - The proposal from Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. And perhaps colleagues, you will be surprised: the Commission did not support this proposal either.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U242	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U243	The purpose of this proposal, colleagues, is both specified and... however, the main focus is on the purpose of the law... to the fact that the aim of the law is mainly three... Two things: that is to promote entrepreneurship; that is to reduce the administrative and tax burden on economic operators (and in particular during the start-up period). This law... the purpose of the current law... If you read this carefully - it is said here too, for example, in sectors with low income potential, while respecting the common interest of society in the area of fair competition and social security... At present, unfortunately, the wording of the law, the purpose of the law, which is for these micro-entrepreneurs... they are already, in fact, presumptuous of prejudice, that they are some second or even worse third-class people, since they are working in some sectors with low income potential. So this whole law, actually - and also by its own, so to say, spirit - is about how to make these people... so, to put more in place so that they have less chance of doing business and become employees in a large company. So, colleagues, this law, so to say, spirit and mentality along with the purpose of such a law are absolutely missed. It's bad! This goes beyond a deep misunderstanding of the role of entrepreneurship in economic development. And that will cost our economy, colleagues, a high price. And the fact that you don't understand it doesn't mean it won't happen. You know, colleagues, people (and some Amazon forests still have such tribes!) For quite a long time, they could not understand, for example, their relationship between sexual activity and the birth of a child after nine months; this, of course, did not release any of the consequences. So, my fellow Members, I am calling for this proposal to be supported and, nevertheless, for business to be carried out in its pedestal, so to say where it belongs, because it is not a deplorable activity, but a very important activity for society and the economy. Colleagues, this is the foundation of the economic pyramid - entrepreneurship, business start-up. And the more people do it, even if only a few of them then can really develop their own businesses and create then medium-sized and then large companies... All those who try to do this... They're everyone! - to award medals, colleagues, not to talk about them in this language of the purpose of the law - that as if they were doing something... As with low income potential... I call for support, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U244	Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U245	Dear President, Dear colleagues, If we look at the specific proposal... Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax... like the previous one, which the coalition's voting machine without debate, is simply voting 'no' without study... I understand that further proposals made by Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis will also be voted against - as the Minister of Finance wishes; as the ruling coalition wishes, the State Revenue Service. But I think you understand very well what these people are doing with small businesses working under the micro-enterprises tax regime. These are our own locals who earn a small living to feed their family, with difficulties paying out public utility services, but they do not get a benefit for social services, they spend this money, their small money, Rimi, Maxima, Circle K and other companies that are big taxpayers. This money goes back to our budget. By supporting micro-enterprises, we support our own people who work, who are, in fact, the majority of our economy. And they're not big taxpayers, yes, but they're people... And we also need to understand that by letting them work as servants... not to be small owners of their micro-enterprises' tax regime, but servants to large companies... on the wage in full tax regime... not everyone is ready for it, not everyone agrees with it, many simply choose to leave this country. The question is, what do we want? For years we have been calling on people to do business, to be owners in their own country, in our own house, but now we are actually expelling them, we are placing them in another tax regime, and if they are holding back something, then it is the bailiff right now. Colleagues, I call for support for this specific proposal, not only from such a fiscal impact on this issue... perhaps also from the fiscal impact... if we look at it a little more, not just as the officials of the Ministry of Finance offer us it in their tables, but... If we look more broadly at all this social tension, which is also being removed... To a certain extent, also people working in the micro-enterprises tax regime, then we understand that it is actually the case in our country... Well, that's a question of existence, at least at this time of crisis... I mean, really... Definitely. I'm calling, colleagues, to really think... and to think not only how the coalition treaty says or how the Ministry of Finance says, but... Think with your heart and your mind too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U246	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U247	Thank you. I would also call for support for Mr Dombrovskis's proposal, but... I would only be asked to follow the order of proposals. I think we just... We voted on the third proposal for the second time, but now it is the fifth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U248	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Member Vjačeslav Dombrovsky's proposal! Please, let's vote! About - 28, against - 53, abstaining - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U249	6. - The proposal from Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. This proposal was also not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U250	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U251	Dear colleagues, First of all, I would like to thank my colleagues, Mr Tatar and Mr Dolgopolova, who have just spoken and have also called for their support. I know that very many people listen to the debate in the Saeima. I know that... Both from the Ministry of Finance and from the so-called business monitoring, which is carried out almost every year by the Riga School of Economics, it is known that the total number of people covered by these proposals is approximately 200,000. I think many of these people are listening to us today. I think that today many of these people live in regions. And in about a month's time, many of them will go to the polling stations to vote. I now say this without any interest, that is to say, direct interest, because neither I nor I (not to be heard.) ... The party does not stand for regional elections, so I have to say that there is nothing to gain from it, but you need to know that... If you listen now and watch this sitting, you see that about this offer... on this tax... more favourable tax treatment for small business... The Ministry of Economy has no offer. It was never prepared. The Ministry of Finance has no offer either. As far as I am aware, no coalition party has such an offer either. In the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission from colleagues... from representatives of coalition partners even no question... No, there was one proposal... I'll tell you... There was a question from Mr Kirštein, but not about this. In general, there was no debate either. That's why you... Colleagues, you have something to think about when you go to the polling stations. For those of you who work in small business... or who are business beginners... what is one of those 200 thousand people... or if you are one of their family members. I think you have something to think about today. But the 6th proposal, colleagues, is an anti-avoidance rule so that everything is fair. It says that if a micro-enterprises tax payer works in a particular sector, in what area... that corporation tax payer may not operate in the same field as an employee, as an official, shareholder or as a real beneficiary in a commercial company. And this anti-avoidance norm has been taken, so to speak, on behalf of colleagues - it has been taken from Estonia, from Estonian legislation, for which our officials and politicians are so often very excited. That, my fellow Members, I think, is telling you something about their level of depth both on the part of the government, on the part of the ministries responsible and on the part of the Saeima; it shows that they are not prepared to support or even discuss the anti-avoidance rule... in all, so to say, "an uncompromising rule of law". Colleagues, I call... Unlike the Commission and the Government... I call you to say so (not to be heard.) ... colleagues, to do another 'Parliamentary accident' and - unlike the government from which there are no proposals for more favourable tax treatment for small businesses - to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U252	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Member Vjačeslav Dombrovsky's proposal! Please, let's vote! About - 28, against - 55, abstaining - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U253	7. - The proposal from Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. And this proposal was not supported by the Commission either.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U254	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U255	So, colleagues, I'm continuing this monologue discussion on tax regimes for small businesses. Here I used to compare access to small business and business start-ups... I compared the fact that we apply different requirements to children and adults. Of course, we do this both because the child's abilities are different from those of an adult, and we do so for the purpose of bringing up children and... to grow into strong, competent adults. We wouldn't, of course, want children to remain children for life, wouldn't we? A similar approach is to tax small businesses and start-ups, where, of course, unlike children, this growth process is... It's not natural... Well, at least, so, physically... If you know... I've been comparing that business dynamics... You can look at it as such a pyramid: the basis of the pyramid - those who start up in business. And they're... At least in our country, they're tens of thousands... even more than 100,000 people who try to create their own business at any time. And even if this business isn't the one... as some colleagues here would like it to sell high-tech goods or services on global markets immediately, it is nevertheless a business; it is much better than leaving the country or going to the labour market. These people are trying to create business, some of them could succeed. So when we set up this tax regime, of course, we must set ceilings to avoid, so to say, such a greenhouse effect that business does not want to remain in this area of relatively low demands for too long, although, of course, some or even many will stay there, because it will simply not be physically able to grow and become medium-sized and then large companies for some reason, including objective reasons. Here the ceiling is set for each group separately, taking into account its business specificities. It is clear that the highest ceiling is for the turnover of economic operators, which, as envisaged in this proposal, is EUR 118 000 per year. And then there are ceilings for craftsmen and professional service providers, which is EUR 48 500. Why are these figures exactly for the ceiling? Because this approach, colleagues, has been taken from France, where it has been functioning for several years, and these figures have been calculated according to what our income is (after purchasing power parity). So - to build such a regime, with precisely such ceilings, so that, for example, a businessman with a turnover of up to 118 thousand euros a year... in order to have a tax rate applicable to that turnover of 15 per cent. He'd pay 15 percent, and that's it. Without any administrative burden! No more questions can focus on your business. And the State Revenue Service would also have much less work, it should not be certain that costs are reasonable, that evidence is there, and so on. For an official - 20 per cent of its turnover is less than 48 500 euros. For the professional service provider, the rate of 25 per cent of turnover does not exceed 48 500 euros per year. With the introduction of such a system, we would have the same ceiling as a favourable tax system in France, but, of course, by adjusting our income. If you do not support it now, colleagues, this means that for small businesses in France, the tax system is more favourable, much more favourable than in Latvia. Would you really like to let that happen? If not, please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2245-U256	I closed the debate. Because proposals 2, 3 and 4 have been rejected, we do not vote on proposal 7. Dear colleagues, The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Members Marija Golubeva, Mārtiņš Bondara, Vitas Anda Steel, Inese Voika and Krista Baumane to declare a break at the Saeima's first remote extraordinary meeting on May 6, until 18:00... by 9 a.m. 13 May this year. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the motion tabled by Members Golubeva, Bondara, Steel, Voika and Baumane on the interruption of the sitting by 9 a.m. on 13 May! Please, let's vote! For -69, for -5, for -2. The proposal is supported - the sitting is suspended until 9 a.m. on 13 May. Honourable Members! There are also statements on the issues put forward by Members. Members Ivars Zariņš, Arturs Rubiks, Ivans Klementjevs, Vladimirs Nikonovs and Jānis Krišāns have submitted a question to the Minister of Health Daniels Pavļutas “On advertising the vaccination environment”. Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Lubova Švecova, Edgars Tavars, Andris Kazinovskis and Karina Sprūde have submitted a question to the Minister of Health Daniels Pavitāts “On Oxygen Content Research”. And Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Edgars Tavars, Aldis Gobzems, Lubova Švecova and Karina Sprūde have submitted a question to the Minister of Justice Janis Bordans “On the procedure for conducting the professional qualification examination of a lawyer”. Questions will be referred to ministers. Registration of Members' presence. It's over. Adjournment of the sitting until 9 a.m. on 13 May Good evening! ( Interruption)
