ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U1	Dear Members, Honourable Members! This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The section "Budget reports". ‘ On draft laws submitted’. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy and that it be the committee responsible. Members are in favour. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes to refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Private Partnership” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy and to make it a commission responsible. The family supports. So the draft law has been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Customs Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Members are in favour. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item is the bill, tabled by Members, "Amendments to the parliamentary roll of order". Applicants – Members Kucens, Girgen, Nemiro, Krapan. However, I must inform you that the Saeima Bureau has received the withdrawal of the signature of the Member, Mr Možvillo, to this draft law, so that this draft law is not to be considered at this parliamentary meeting. It is also impossible to debate such a draft law either for or against it. The next one is the bill tabled by Members Raivja Dzintara, Arvila Asheraden, Marija Golubeva, Gata Eglišs and Māra Možvillo, ‘Amendment to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection’. The Bureau proposes that the budget and financial (tax) commission be transferred to the committee responsible. ‘ For” has applied to speak Member Raivis Dzintars. Please! Please also sign in electronically. We have received a written request to apply in the system, Mr Dzintara. Name of Member Raiv Dzintars, who will talk about it. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U2	Hello, honourable leader of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, I shall briefly inform you that the proposed amendments to the law lay down more favourable conditions for people who have had problems paying their debts due to a pandemic. The right to voluntarily discharge the obligations would be granted within a period of not more than 60 days from the date of receipt of the notification by the creditors. I would remind you that such incentives for debtors were in force until 1 September last year, but given that the situation as a result of the difficulties caused by the Covid-19 has unfortunately not changed significantly since last year, the proposal also provides for more favourable conditions to be laid down before 1 September this year. This proposal has no fiscal impact on the 2021 budget. I call for support to be given to the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U3	Thank you. Member Dzintars has spoken about. No Member has requested a vote, so that the draft law is passed on to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, provided that it is the committee responsible. The Bureau proposes to refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” to the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs and to establish that it is the committee responsible. ‘ On” applied to speak Member Raivis Dzintars. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U4	Dear colleagues, Please support the transfer to the Commission also the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits”. I very much hope that the Social and Labour Commission will work smoothly with this draft law and we will soon be able to approve these amendments in the future as well. If it does, it will really be very good news for many families in Latvia. More than 200,000 Latvian families will mean an increase in family state benefit. The monthly income of around 80,000 families will increase by 50 to 100 euros, with more than four and a half thousand families growing by more than 100 euros per month. It is very important that support will increase more specifically for families that are objectively most in need of assistance, namely families that have two or more children who cannot still deserve their own income. The new amount of family state benefit provides that one child will be paid 25 euros per month, two children - 100 euros per month, three children - 225 euros per month, four and more children - 100 euros per month. As can be seen from the record, this reform of the family state benefit must be implemented in conjunction with the introduction of so-called social grants. Children of large families would receive financial support for studies at higher education institutions in Latvia. This is not provided for by the text of these amendments to the law, but it is an important task for Parliament to work in the near future. Dear colleagues, The family state allowance is not intended to cover the cost of raising children, it is not possible for the state to do so, nor is it the purpose. The aim is to provide material assistance to families where the cost of raising children is proportionately high, primarily families with many children, or honorary families, and also families with two dependent children. The reform of the family state benefit provided for in these amendments to the law has been developed by the Centre for Demographic Affairs led by Imants Krādnieks. The National Association set this idea as an important priority already in the budget negotiations for 2021. Although this reform is to be implemented from next year alone, I would like to thank you very much for the support of the coalition partners, particularly the New Conservative Party, that the idea was supported. This support is only possible if all coalition partners have so agreed... and to express our support, and so today we can pass on these fundamental amendments to Parliament's evaluation. Let us remember that in last year's budget debate, when we mentioned this agreement, many were sceptical, they said that the promised purse did not fall. This time we proved that this is not always the case. Request to support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U5	Thank you. ‘ Regina Ločmele, Member of the Commission, has applied for the referral of the draft law to the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U6	Hello, colleagues! Overall, in support of the idea of increasing the national family allowance for each future child, there are protests in society that, at the same time as the new pension reform, the principle of a progressive increase in this benefit is being abolished, depending on who the woman in turn is a child receiving the benefit. What do I mean? Well, for example, if there is a model that a woman in general has three children and one or two of them has already reached adulthood, then now she receives a higher benefit for the third child than for the only child. The idea that will now be implemented by the authors of the project means that a large family of children will receive more, but only on condition that all these children have not reached adulthood. Thus, the introduction of the new system could discriminate against women who have already reached adulthood. That's the first. Second. A really very large group of parents is concerned that the amount of benefit per child in the family for survival in Latvia is still insufficient. In my opinion, when working on this draft law - I hope it will be supported today - these two circumstances must be taken into account and the draft law must be improved so that this group of parents is not discriminated against. Overall supporting the idea of increasing the amount of family benefits and bringing it really into line with consumption... real consumer basket price in Latvia, these shortcomings must be pointed out in the hope that they will be eliminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U7	One Member has spoken 'for', one Member has spoken 'no'. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes to refer the draft law on "The Plastic Products Act", submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, with a view to its being a responsible commission. Members agree. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Enterprise” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Members are in favour. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Hunting Law” presented by the Member Andra Kazinovska, Mārtiņš Bondara, Jānis Dūklavs, Erika Pucena, Edmunds Teirumnieks and Jānis Cielēns be referred to the National, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Mr. Kazinovsky, you're going to talk about it, because you're the applicant. Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U8	Dear President, Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The Group of Members has prepared these proposals. The proposals mainly concern organisational issues related to the Hunting Law. There was a wide-ranging discussion, a special working group (under the direction of the Ministry of Agriculture) in which both hunter organisations and representative offices and organisations of owners participated. The final result is the preparation of these proposals. The fact is, to better organise hunting, hunting... Then there are many issues that currently interfere, for example, with the complete absence of the external borders of hunting compartments. These amendments aim to address this issue. Next, for example, hunting in urban areas, if municipalities require or specifically determine. Well, this is about certain things, let's say, beaver hunts, and so on... which interferes and so on. There are other questions too. I would ask Members to support and refer these amendments to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U9	A vote has been requested on the referral of the draft law to the Commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Hunting Law” to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! For - 67, for - 2 and for - 3. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Agenda for next sitting: Forwarding and discussion of draft legislation to the commissions at 1st reading. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia” drawn up by the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission be referred to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission as the commission responsible. Members agree. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. We started the examination of the draft law on behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The committee has therefore asked it to be examined at the sitting of the Saeima without re-examination by the committee at first reading. Name to Member Rihard Kozlovski. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U10	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting, dear colleagues! On 23 March, the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia”” and supported it for its first reading. The draft law provides for a change in the management system of the Bank of Latvia, from two levels of management to one level of management. Thus, it is in fact planned to terminate the activities of the Board of the Bank of Latvia by removing from the law “On the Bank of Latvia” the norms governing the activities of the Board. In future, those issues that will not fall under the competence of the President of the Bank of Latvia will be decided on behalf of the Bank of Latvia in the Council of the Bank of Latvia. These amendments, in fact such changes were the vision of the existing President of the Bank of Latvia Martins Kazaks now more than a year ago for the future management of the bank if he were to be approved as the Head of the Bank. Accordingly, it aims to make the bank’s operation and management more efficient, i.e. to make it faster and to reduce management costs. Such changes, in my opinion, were supported by the Commission when examining and debating these issues, listening to the views of representatives of the Bank of Latvia, and unanimously supported this draft law. For this reason, on behalf of the Commission, I am asking for the urgency of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U11	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia” as urgent! Please vote mode! For - 75, for - 1, for - 1. Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U12	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U13	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia”! Please vote mode! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals for second reading and a time limit for consideration by the Saeima at the second, final and final sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U14	Given that the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia” is only a small part of the overall large package that has already reached the Saeima, and that we have already supported the urgency of this draft law, on behalf of the Commission, I ask you to consider this draft law at second reading in this sitting without re-examination by the Saeima responsible committee.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U15	Are Members opposed to the second reading of the draft law at this parliamentary sitting? Please provide for this section on the procedure and, if someone wishes to object, please apply electronically in the current system. So no one is against it. We can also examine the draft law at second, final, final reading. Your name is Mr. Kozlovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U16	Therefore, colleagues, on behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia” at second, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U17	Please call me! We will vote for the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia”! Please vote mode! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. The next draft law on the agenda is the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Gambling and Gaming’ drawn up by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. The Bureau proposed that it be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and that it be the Commission responsible. Do Members have objections? Members are in favour. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau has received a request from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, the responsible commission, to consider this draft law at the Saeima sitting without re-examination at the First Reading Commission. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Rihards Kozlovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U18	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, On 23 March, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Gambling and Gaming’ and supported it for its first reading. In fact, this draft law is necessary to allow administrative liability in the field of gambling and slot organisation and provision of services, since the Administrative Responsibility Act has already entered into force on 1 July 2020. Consequently, when examining this draft law in the Commission, also when hearing and debating it accordingly, the Commission supported this draft law for its first reading. On behalf of the Commission, I have initially asked for urgent action to be taken on the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U19	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Gambling and Gaming”! Please vote mode! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U20	On behalf of the commission responsible, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U21	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Gambling and Gaming! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading and the time when the draft law will be examined by the Saeima at its second, final, reading session.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U22	Colleagues, in view of the fact that the guidelines on gambling, the results are only at the discussion stage, while, as I mentioned earlier, the Law on Administrative Responsibility has been in force for almost a year, so the Commission supported... On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to look at this draft law today at this second reading without a re-examination by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U23	Thank you. The Bureau of the Saeima, on the other hand, has received a request that the Member Gatis Eglitis wishes to put forward a deadline for the submission of other proposals. Please apply by e-mail to Mr. Eglišs, because the e-mail has been written by an assistant. Please, Mr. Eglish! Name to Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U24	I would therefore ask for one day's time, so by 17.00 tomorrow in order to be able to submit proposals for this draft law. There is no hurry, because this situation that we have faced with an administrative irregularity... Let's say, punishment... gambling operators - this has been the case since July last year. Seven months have passed, nothing has happened, so please give one day's time so that we can also make qualitative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U25	Thank you. So today, at this parliamentary sitting, we cannot review the draft law at second, final, final, reading, another deadline for tabling proposals has been received. Mr. Kozlovsky, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U26	On behalf of the Commission, in the debate on a possible deadline for the submission of proposals, the Commission agreed that the deadline for the submission of proposals would be 15 minutes and that the second reading would take place on 15 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U27	Consequently, a decision must be taken by the Saeima by voting - first voting on the deadline for tabling proposals, namely before Mr Eglitis - at 5 p.m. on 9 April. And the date of the hearing in the Saeima, Mr. Eglitis?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U28	The next sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U29	The nearest... at the next Saeima sitting after 9 April, which would accordingly be 15 April. We must therefore vote in favour of the deadline for the submission of proposals at 17.00 on 9 April and the examination at the sitting of the Saeima on 15 April. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the deadline for tabling proposals at 17.00 on 9 April and the session of the Saeima on 15 April! Please vote mode! For - 45, for - 31, for - 3. The deadline for submitting proposals is set at 5 p.m. on 9 April this year, and consideration at the sitting of the Saeima on 15 April. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child” submitted by the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. The Saeima Bureau proposes that it be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. At the same time, a request has been received from the Commission to review this draft law at this sitting of the Saeima at first reading without re-examination by the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. So, first of all, do Members have objections to our passing on the draft law to the Commission? Members are in favour. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. And so we look at the draft laws at first reading, as the Commission has asked for. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Mr Andrejs Judine, Member. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U30	Hello, colleagues! I would like to remind you that negligence was mentioned in the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child as one of the forms of violence between 2013 and 2020. Last year, we amended the law and excluded the concept of negligence from the definition of violence. Why did we do that? Because it was found that, in view of the provisions of the Criminal Law, there is a situation where parents can be prosecuted after an accident with a child. And that could not be allowed, it was necessary to change the law quickly. But after the amendments were made, a number of consultations took place with the children's rights authorities, with the non-governmental sector, and we found that there is a problem that some understand and read that our amendments aim to look more gently at negligence, that it is a certain tolerance for negligence, but that is not the case. The Commission set up a working group and we started working, we started thinking about how to solve the problem more effectively, better. After several working group meetings, a draft law was drawn up, which was accepted by the Commission and is now being put forward for consideration. The draft law provides that, above all, the law will define negligence, the concept of negligence. It is also envisaged that the most serious form of negligence - abandonment - will be recognised as a form of violence. We will continue to work in a working group to find better solutions that will protect the interests of children's rights more effectively. But at the moment, I am asking on behalf of the Commission to support the draft law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U31	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child”! Please vote mode! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U32	Proposals are expected until 29 April.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U33	Consequently, no other proposals were received at the Bureau regarding the deadline for the submission of proposals. The deadline for submitting proposals is April 29. Thank you. The next item is the Bureau's reports on own-initiative proposals tabled. Draft decision “On the way forward of the 10,040 collective application of Latvian citizens “Authorize driving training and exams in motor schools””. Does any Member object to this own-initiative examination of the Commission's proposal for terms of office, ethics and applications at this sitting? Mr Nemir, do you want to debate the draft decision or oppose the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this parliamentary sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U34	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! I would have proposed that this draft decision be referred to the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs rather than to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. I also hope that the chairman of the Commission would be happy to accept this, because this issue is more connected with traffic than with the organisation of work. And I allow the idea that a draft decision of a commission dealing with work matters would be much more appropriate. I would therefore call for this draft decision to be referred to the Social and Labour Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U35	Mr Nemir, but you do not mind that we are looking at this own-initiative proposal at this sitting of the Saeima, you just want to point out, in a later order, that you want to hand over this to another commission? Did we get it right?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U36	Yes, absolutely accurate! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U37	Thank you. Members have no objection to being heard at this sitting of the Saeima. We will therefore begin to examine the proposed draft decision of the Saeima. Member of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications Arthur Rubik. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U38	Hello, colleagues! On March 2, 2021, the Saeima received a collective application of 10,040 Latvian citizens “Authorisation of driving training and examinations in motor schools”. On 24 March this year, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications examined the collective application and heard a representative of the initiative, who pointed to the positive impact of a larger number of drivers on reducing public transport users, as well as the possibility to organise training and examinations in line with the requirements of epidemiological safety measures. The Commission decided unanimously, after hearing the representative of the initiative, to submit this draft decision initiative to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy for further consideration and, on the basis of the fourth and fifth paragraphs of Section 131.5 of the Parliamentary Rules of Procedure, prepared a draft decision “On the way forward of the 10,040 Latvian citizens’ collective application “Authorisation of driving training and examinations in motor schools”. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U39	Let's start a debate. The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U40	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! So when I listen to the rapporteur for the draft decision, I really believe that this issue is not so much related to traffic organisation... whose draft laws and draft decisions are examined more by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. This is where the authors of the initiative want to organise driving training in a different way. I have great suspicion that it is the Social and Labour Commission that it would be possible to examine this draft decision more qualitatively, because it deals with projects of a similar nature, and this is more the issue of work and social matters. I would therefore call for this draft decision to be passed on to the Commission, but to change the Commission - from the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy to the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Hopefully, colleagues, you will support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U41	Before I give the floor to Mr Feldman, while continuing the debate, I would like to inform you that we cannot change the content of the draft decision here in the Saeima. We are voting in favour of a draft decision such as the panel has drawn up by voting in favour, against or by abstentions. If the draft decision is supported, it shall be supported in such a way that, if it is rejected, the commission responsible may, having received it back, draw up a new draft decision on a possible new decision... the future of this initiative, but so we are now looking at a draft decision that... what the rapporteur, Mr Rubik, has also reported at the parliamentary sitting on the drafter - the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications. Mr Feldman has referred to the debate. Mr. Rubika? So Mr. Neiminina wants to take part in the debate. Please! Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U42	If we were present at the Saeima sitting right now, then we would all see our eyes and understand what needs to be done and how to vote now. Since we're not here, I'm going to try to see the camera in that lens and say: please, my colleagues, I support... as it has been written! We cannot change the Commission and do not support the signatures of 10,040 citizens - this is also, in my opinion, unreasonable. So I support it! The good news is that when this comes to our agenda, everything will be solved. To say so (not to be heard) ... Let's go! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U43	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U44	First of all, I thought that the commission should also be changed, but given that the Speaker of the Saeima indicated... Commission... draft decision... the particular draft decision must be voted on, probably it is more correct to support this draft decision, but in general I would like to point out to the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application that these initiatives should be assessed in the future, let us say, from different points of view and where the root of the problem lies. In this particular case, I think the root of the problem is questions about health, about the pandemic, about it, whether or not to work. That is the question. It is logical that this would be only understandable in this regard: to move forward with such a draft decision and with the collective proposal of citizens for consideration by the Social and Labour Commission. Given that at the moment there is a draft decision as it is, we do not have a particularly large room for manoeuvre here. Well then we support it, we support it as it is! And the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy will examine this initiative twice more and twice as much as possible on how work in this sector is hindered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U45	Thank you. I closed the debate. Mr. Rubika, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U46	On behalf of the Commission, I can say that the Commission has nevertheless decided to support... refer the matter to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Commission. There was no talk about the Social and Labour Commissions. On behalf of the Commission, I am asking for support for this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U47	Thank you. I would like to inform you once again that this is a draft decision of the Saeima, which we therefore decided to consider as an own-initiative proposal at this sitting of the Saeima, and here during the sitting we cannot change the content of the draft decision. So now there will be a vote... the manner in which it was developed by the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the progress of the 10,040 collective application of Latvian citizens “Let driving training and exams in bus schools””! Please vote mode! For - 87, for - no, for - 1. Decision adopted. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Maria Golubeva. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U48	Dear colleagues, The Commission for Education, Culture and Science asks to review draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” at second reading.... I'm sorry at third reading, it's written here. But it's the second reading... will be, right? ( Subtotal: ‘ Second! ’) ) Second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U49	This is the second, final, reading. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U50	Yeah, it's a mistake for the commission consultant. The purpose of the Law is to comply with the inconsistency established by the Constitutional Court in the Law on Higher Education of 11 June 2020. And specifically - to recognise the third paragraph of Article 56 of the Law on Higher Education and transitional provisions 49. ... part... the second... Prim... paragraph insofar as these norms apply to private universities, their teaching staff and students, as being incompatible with Articles 112 and 113 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia and invalid as from 1 May 2021. 23 proposals have been submitted for second reading. 1. - a proposal from Members Janson, Kursīte-Pakules and Teirumnieks. It provides for the wording of the third paragraph of Article 56 of the draft law referred to in paragraph 1, which states: ‘The study programmes shall be implemented in the state language in schools and colleges. No more than one fifth of the amount of credits from the study programme, which is implemented in the state language, may be implemented in other official languages of the European Union, provided that this part cannot include final and national tests, as well as the development of qualification, bachelor’s and master’s work.” This proposal is supported by the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U51	Members have requested a vote in favour of 1. - a proposal from Members Janson, Kursīte-Pakules and Teirumnieks. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal tabled by Members Jansons, Kursīte-Pakules and Teirumnieks! Please vote mode! For - 56, for - 20, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U52	2. - Member Edgars Kucin's proposal for a... in the third paragraph of Section 56 of the Law... that only schools and colleges established by the state shall implement study programmes in the state language. The proposal is not supported by the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U53	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Kucin. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U54	Hello, colleagues! In fact, the substance of the proposal is to return to the original version of the law, where restrictions... It's about the language of instruction... only public universities and colleges. May I remind you that Section 56(3) of the Law on Higher Education and Paragraph 49 of the Transitional Provisions of the Republic of Latvia were found to be incompatible with Articles 112 and 113 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia, indicating in its decision that in the present case compliance of norms with the Satversme should be assessed insofar as it concerns the rights of private universities, teaching staff and students as well as private universities included in the Constitution. The Ministry has not taken this instruction into account, and the wording of the draft law still does not distinguish between public and private universities. I don't think anyone needs to explain that public and private universities are in significantly different circumstances. Most of the funding of state universities comes from the state, so the state can give them additional tasks. In turn, the funding of private universities is based on the ability to attract students who will pay for their studies, so it is also absolutely justified that private universities should have more freedom to choose the means to carry out their tasks. The difference between public and private universities also results from the dual nature of private universities. They are both educational institutions and businesses. In addition to academic freedom, they also enjoy the right to property and freedom of establishment enshrined in the Constitution. Within the European Union, private universities also work on the basis of freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services. This means that a university in any European Union Member State must have the right to offer its own courses for fees in Latvia, including those in Catalan, mandarin or Arabic. Once again, I would like to stress that the restriction on the choice of languages is not appropriate for private universities. Please support my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U55	We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U56	Hello, dear colleagues! I would just like to remind you that private universities in the Republic of Latvia also issue state-certified diplomas, which are approved by the state of Latvia, so Latvia has the opportunity to define the direction in which these private universities should look - in this case, teaching in Latvian, teaching in the languages of the European Union and teaching in the languages that have been established in connection with the international agreements concluded by the state of Latvia. Therefore, this argument, which Mr Kucina mentioned, is irrelevant and the State of Latvia has the right to indicate in which direction higher education institutions should work. Therefore, I will invite you not to support this proposal and remind you once again that the Ministry of Education and Science, with these amendments to the law, has complied with the decision of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U57	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U58	Thank you, President-in-Office. It is really hard for me to imagine, as with the logic that Mr Znotiņš has just shown, to believe in it at all, because it is absolutely obvious that this new regulation is as new as it was in the previous law on substance. And actually, in a minute's time, Mr. Znotiņš was able to make contradictory statements. And by no means... there was no word that could in any way overturn the arguments put forward by Mr Kucin. Mr Znotiņš spoke with the slogans and absolutely nothing about it. I would like to remind you that the diplomas awarded in the European Union are also recognised in the Republic of Latvia, regardless of the language in which the education takes place. The current situation simply puts Latvian youth in an unequal situation. If a person wants to get an education in another language, not only 20 percent English or Chinese or Russian, he or she will have to travel to another Member State of the European Union where this is permitted. This is absolutely possible, and we will recognise their diploma, because it is our commitment to European Union law. So we simply take away additional opportunities for both Latvian students, Latvian entrepreneurs and Latvian commercial school... institutions... entrepreneurs working in the field of higher education. So there is no logic here, the regulation proposed is not in line with the decision of the Constitutional Court, and I call for support for Mr Kucina's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U59	I closed the debate. Mrs Golubeva, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U60	In the Commission, proposal 2 is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U61	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Mr Kucin! Please vote mode! For - 24, for - 59, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U62	3. - the proposal of Member Edgars Kucins, which provides for the third paragraph of Article 56 of the law... that no more than one fifth of the amount of credits from the study programme, which is implemented in the state language, may be implemented in the official languages of the European Higher Education Area (Bologna Process), provided that this part cannot include final and national tests, as well as the development of qualifications, bachelor and master’s works. This framework extends the existing language coverage of study programmes. The commission responsible is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U63	Mr. Kucin, we have a time to break. Will you have enough three minutes in the debate, or will we start the debate after a break?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U64	I offer to continue after a break.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U65	So let us start the debate on this proposal after a break. Only registration of the presence of Members. It's been a success. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U66	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! We keep sitting after the break. See amendments to the Law on Higher Education. We are left with proposal 3. The floor will be discussed with Member Edgar Kucin. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U67	Thank you. Colleagues! The proposal provides for the replacement of the words ‘the European Union’ in the third paragraph of Article 56 with the words ‘the European Higher Education Area’. The Bologna process consists of cooperation between governments of 48 European countries, including Latvia, in the field of higher education with the aim of better harmonisation of higher education systems in Europe. As part of the process to facilitate the mobility of students and university staff, to make higher education more inclusive and accessible and to enhance the attractiveness and competitiveness of European higher education worldwide, a European Higher Education Area was established. Colleagues, I would remind you that all the countries that are part of the European Higher Education Area have agreed to introduce a system of higher education consisting of three cycles: a bachelor, master and doctor, mutual recognition of qualifications obtained at other foreign universities and periods of studies, a quality management system in order to increase the quality and efficiency of teaching and learning, so I believe that in order to ensure full cooperation within the European Higher Education Area, a common framework should be ensured first and foremost. And if we are already in the European Higher Education Area, it would be logical that the Law on Higher Education states the official languages of the European Higher Education Area instead of the official languages of the European Union. Thank you. Please support my proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U68	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U69	Thank you. Hello, colleagues! I have applied for a debate on this point, on this point of the amendments, but in fact I would like to speak in a much broader way. As the rapporteur said, therefore, we are looking at this issue because in its judgment the Constitutional Court pointed out that when adopting the regulations currently in force in Section 56(3) of the Law on Higher Education, the legislator has not assessed whether the legitimate aim of this article, the part of this article, cannot be achieved by alternative means. And so, what is this legitimate aim? As I understand this legitimate objective, it is necessary to ensure that the state language and the development of the state language in higher education and science are compatible with modern science. So if the terms develop, so that these terms develop in the national language and at the same time that the national language is protected from disproportionate foreign word invasion. And it is really a question of whether this can be achieved in a different way than with this regulation, which was the third paragraph of Article 56. As we saw in the committee meeting during the debate on these issues, the Ministry of Education and Science has not, by its very nature, carried out such an alternative search, nor have there been any discussions with private universities, which are currently most subject to this norm and whose activities are restricted. And what has been done a priori is the assumption that the provision in the third paragraph of Article 56 is correct, the only correct one, and that it is only necessary to strengthen the argument that such a provision should be in force. Well, in my view, just so... so that there are no alternative routes, that is not the case. And if we're talking about that legitimate goal, then... if we are talking about science, where Latvia wants to integrate and where we have also given a mandate as legislator, we must remember that we have voted both on the CERN, which is on the French-Switzerland border (and Switzerland is not in any case in the European Union), we have voted for Latvia's participation in the European Space Agency, and it is also an institution, a scientific institution based on principles quite different from the European Union. Why am I talking about this? Because these legislative provisions that we are looking at today, Latvia's membership of the European Union and deeper integration (I stress) in the European Union's area of integration, in my opinion, are not the right words for the key. Of course, Mr Kucin has just spoken about this Bologna process and the much wider participation of these countries. That is the question whether we should really speak in this article... with regard to this amendment on participation in the whole Bologna Process, namely on allowing the use of all the languages of the Member States of the Bologna Process, but I just ask you to think about it. Now, let's say... and also in the meeting of the Commission it said that the legitimate opportunity to use English in study programs now... that it is possible in Latvia because, here, Malta is a country where English is an official language, because since Britain's departure from the European Union, we no longer have such arguments. And if something happens to Malta with regard to membership of the European Union, then we will think of the next way, the next country through which we somehow use this English, which is still considered to be a language of science, let us try to get to the law? In my opinion, it is humiliating that we decide and do so. Second example: We all - those who work in science - look at Norwegian money once in a while, at Norwegian gravels, but Norway is not a member of the European Union, and of course it can be said that there is a Scandinavian language that is being used to some extent by all Scandinavian countries, but it is once again attracting hair. Consequently, I am not very excited about this proposal 3, but I think this is, however, a better regulation than what has now been voted on... which has been previously in force and which is also provided for in other legislation... in other articles, so I will call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U70	The name of Member Rainis Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U71	Hello! Member Reinis Znotiņš. ( The President says something.) I would like to begin with, however, this legitimate goal. The achievement of this legitimate objective has been assessed and the Ministry of Education and Science has assessed that this is the best way to achieve this objective. When talking about different countries and cooperation programmes, I spoke earlier, I told you that this opportunity to teach higher education in Latvia is in the languages of the European Union and with countries with which international agreements have been concluded. So if, for example, there were the need to teach higher education in Norwegian mentioned by this Mr. Wuzan - what Mr. Wuzan is offering - then the state of Latvia... The Latvian government has every opportunity to conclude a cooperation agreement with this country, providing that this is an important direction for Latvia's higher education to develop, and if the sector requests it, the Ministry of Education and Science will, of course, examine it and can drive it forward. What's going on? An example was also mentioned for CERN and so on. I would like to remind you that there are four official languages in the Swiss state, of which German, French and Italian, all of which are the languages of the European Union. So I think CERN, how much I've ever been there myself... negotiations and activities are held there in either French or English. That should certainly not be a problem. As far as Mr Kucin's comment is concerned - yes, I have to say that... Exactly, these... Above all, these European Union languages are also relevant to most of the world's top universities, with which we might want to cooperate, but also several Latvian universities already have these international cooperation agreements - these exist for both the Riga School of Economics, the Riga School of Law and the Riga School of Business, for example, in the last case with the United States University of America. And also in this way it is possible to implement joint programmes and develop both higher education and science in these languages, which also, let us say, are quoted in the context of world education. Consequently, in the light of these arguments, I would like to call for this proposal 3 not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U72	Thank you to Member Znotiņš. I closed the debate. Please, Mrs Golubeva, do you want something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U73	In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U74	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Member Cucin's proposal! Please, let's vote! On - 28, against - 56, abstaining - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U75	4. - the proposal of Members Jansons, Kursītes-Pakules and Teirumnieks, which provides for expressing the fourth paragraph of Article 56 of the law referred to in Article 1 of the draft, providing that in other official languages of the European Union study programmes may be implemented only in the following cases: the first - if it is established within the framework of cooperation provided for in the European Union programmes and international agreements; the second - if all study programmes corresponding to the specific field of study have received a high level of recognition in accreditation of the course of study "good" or "excellent" and the study programmes implemented in another language of the European Union are provided for in the state language; and the third - joint study programmes with foreign universities. This proposal is not supported by the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U76	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ritvar Janson. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U77	Hello, colleagues! Our proposal balances the learning of study programmes in other languages of the European Union and in Latvian. Article 14 of the State Language Law provides: “The right to education in the state language shall be guaranteed in the Republic of Latvia. The use of the state language in education is governed by the laws governing education.’ The amendments to the Law on Higher Education and Science proposed by the Ministry of Education establish the procedure that study programmes in other official languages of the European Union may be implemented if, in the course of the accreditation process of the course of studies, all those programmes which belong to the same thematic field of education with the study programme to be implemented in the language of the European Union have received a high evaluation – “good” or “excellent”. Such a norm is welcome because it focuses on excellence. However, this norm allows a theoretical possibility that all study programmes in other languages of the European Union can be implemented gradually in the accreditation process, because, as representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Saeima pointed out in the Saeima Commission, accreditation will not take into account whether study programmes with an assessment “good” or “excellent” will be in the state language or other languages of the European Union. In practice, for example, if all study programmes will be held in English in the requested thematic field “Health Care”, then graduates will be able to communicate with clients – Latvian citizens – in which language, most of whom are pensioners? Mixed in English and Latvian or Russian? For example, if students are not asked for the study direction “ History and Archaeology” will develop in English, attracting students from Asian countries who have an important European diploma regardless of their profession, with what terminology the teacher, Latvian citizen, has studied in this field, will teach Latvian history in schools? The reform of universities is aimed at bringing university departments and scientific institutes together, as is normal practice in the countries of the European Union. But what language will the terminology of science develop if all the programmes in the thematic field are in English? But not in the language of the country. State universities can also conclude - why should limited funds be invested in study programmes in the state language, if the programmes in English can still be earned. State budget funds are invested in universities, first of all, to develop national science, so that the graduate stays in Latvia and can have excellent contacts with the residents of his country. It is not possible to allow a theoretical study programme of all subjects in foreign languages, because, as I have already mentioned, the State Language Law guarantees the right to receive education in the state language, and as a result, there may be a new judgment of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, our proposal, in proposal 4, provides that a study programme can be studied in another language of the European Union if such a programme is also provided in the national language. The argument against our proposal in the Commission was that private Riga School of Economics and Riga School of Law already have accredited study programmes with supranational content in English and the law would also require identical programmes in the state language. It should be recalled that the Saeima has adopted separate laws for these universities and exceptions for the future of such programmes can be included in separate laws. In the Commission, our proposal to paragraph 3 of Section 56(4) of the Law was assessed as more appropriate for the spirit and letter of the law, that study programmes in other languages of the European Union are permitted in joint study programmes with foreign universities rather than, for example, joint study programmes of two Latvian universities, as can be interpreted in the first reading proposed version. I therefore call for support for our proposal 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U78	Name of Member Anita Muižniece. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U79	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Colleagues! I would like to explain my motivation as to why I will not support this proposal from the members of the National Alliance and will also call on the other colleagues to stick to what has been decided by the Commission and not to support this proposal. In addition, it will only be correct to point out that the proposal contained in the proposal would indeed be acceptable to paragraph 3, but in general I will call for this proposal to be rejected in the light of the changes proposed in paragraph 2. This proposal proposes that any study programmes offered in a foreign language be mechanically duplicated in paragraph 2 of the fourth paragraph of this article. Of course, while protecting the national identity, taking care of the development of the scientific language in Latvian, it might also seem reasonable, but I will explain why this initiative should not be supported. In my opinion, the primary thing to look at in terms of study programmes is precisely the objectives, content and quality of the study programme. It is logical that when a university submits a study program for licensing, it develops a content offer of the program, at the same time it indicates the language in which the program will be implemented. Basically, it will be a state language, but it does not rule out that in parallel, if the university has a good, convincing offer and the ability to deliver in a foreign language, it can already be indicated at licensing. In reality, universities will decide, when they see that they have a good program, which is required among students in Latvian, that it is worth offering it in parallel with Latvian in foreign language as well, not the other way round. Thus, the principle of parallel offers, already proposed in reality, will work. However, there may be certain specific cases where universities see the creation of study programmes based on international practice, foreign experience where there will be strong foreign teachers, only in a foreign language. It will still not prevent local students from participating in the programme, so in my opinion this opportunity should be maintained and it should not be burdened with additional requirements. Where I see risks, if this proposal were to be supported, it is that we will not allow universities to assess themselves what to do, which is beneficial and whether there is a sufficient resource for teaching staff to meet requirements. And it will be possible to create a programme that few students apply for, with low-skilled teachers who will not be burdened enough, which in turn will lead to other problems. I do not think that making it difficult for universities to offer an exportable service by creating artificial barriers is the right step. The state language of study programmes is and will always be the largest, and in my opinion, with the wording of the bill supported by the Commission, we have also ensured enough to protect the existence of the Latvian language in the higher education space, but the pressure of artificial universities to create duplicate programmes will not, in my opinion, be the right step to take. I call for this proposal not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U80	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the commission, what's the matter with the bee?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U81	In the Commission, proposal 4 has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U82	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - a proposal from Members Jansons, Kursīte-Pakules and Teirumnieks! Please, let's vote! On - 14, against - 66, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U83	5. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which provides that study programmes may be implemented in the official languages of the European Union if this is provided for in international agreements or in European Union programmes within the framework of cooperation. The proposal is supported by the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U84	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U85	6. - Member Kucin's proposal. It is envisaged to replace the words ‘European Union’ in the fourth paragraph of Article 56 of the Law on Higher Education with the words ‘European Higher Education Area (Bologna Process)’, thus extending the current language in which study programmes are to be implemented. The proposal is not supported by the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U86	Members have not applied for a debate, but have asked for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Member Cucin's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U87	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is envisaged to clarify in editorial terms paragraph 2 of Section 56(4) of the Law. The proposal is supported by the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U88	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Saeima's Legal Bureau's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 54, for - 2 and for - 17. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U89	8 / 8 - Member Kucin's proposal. Provision shall be made for an additional case in Master’s and Doctor’s level studies where study programmes can be implemented in the official languages of the European Union. The proposal is not supported by the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U90	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Kucin. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U91	Thank you. Colleagues! The proposal is to add paragraph 4 to the fourth paragraph of Article 56 of the law in the following wording: ‘in master’s and doctoral level studies’. And here, colleagues, I would like to remind you once again of what was said in the Constitutional Court judgment. I would add: ‘... that the legitimate aim could also be achieved by differentiation of language requirements in the study process at different levels. The aims of bachelor's, master's and doctor's studies are very different. Implementation of bachelor’s study programmes should still be allowed to determine the state language as the compulsory study language, but much of the Master’s and Doctor’s courses should be allowed to study in English - the restriction created by the contested norms at these study levels is not necessary.” This means that my proposal offers the alternative solution referred to in the judgment in Master's and Doctor's studies. This is the next level of higher education, which has other objectives that involve inclusion at least in the European scientific process, and the possibility of attracting world-class teachers can only benefit the growth of our country. Thank you. And please support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U92	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - Member Cucin's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 30, for - 50, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U93	9. - Member Kucin's proposal. It is provided that Section 56(5) of the Law shall be expressed in such a way that study programmes in certain scientific fields, including joint study programmes, may be implemented in foreign languages if necessary for the achievement of the objectives of the study programme. The proposal is not supported by the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U94	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Kucin. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U95	The proposal is to state the fifth paragraph of Article 56 of the law in the following wording: “Studies in certain fields of science, including joint study programmes, may be implemented in foreign languages if this is necessary to achieve the objectives of the study programme.” The proposal provides that a university can itself define certain directions in which it is useful to use any foreign languages, such as mathematics, white philology, theatre art, engineering, political science. And I would like to quote again from the ruling of the Constitutional Court: “... in different fields of study, for example, in white philology and mathematics, there may be a different need to determine the proportions of the use of foreign languages in the study process.” In fact, this proposal will not restrict the academic freedom of private university teaching staff to develop and teach study courses in foreign languages in Latvian private universities. Please support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U96	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U97	Colleagues! I would like to remind you that study programmes relating to culture, language studies, such as foreign languages, may also be available in third countries. So if these specific studies are, yes, that's right... either studying another country's culture or language, this is acceptable, and I therefore call for this proposal not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U98	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U99	Colleagues! In turn, I will call for this proposal to be supported, thinking that there have been precedents in the history of Latvian higher education, where such a norm would have been necessary, in due course. If we remember, let us say, how the science sector and study programme such as optometry appeared in Latvia, so the science of how we can get to the glasses that are best suited to each of us, or to those vision correction tools, then I would remind you that, at the time, at the University of Latvia, this study direction was, by nature, imported from Italy. And it was done through... not through the Latvian language. Of course, translation was provided, but in every case those leading teachers - they were imported. And as science evolves, I admit that there may be a situation in the future, that in one of the scientific sectors that are developing and come into our lives, there may be a situation once again, that in order for us to be competitive, we need not only to export our knowledge, but also to import a study programme. And then that would be the norm that would allow it to be done. Of course, Mr Znotiņš said that, in that case, there is this reserve, that intergovernmental agreements can be concluded, but that will be a certain contradiction to what we want to establish even now in higher education - the autonomy of these higher-level universities. However, universities themselves should be given the right to decide on such matters. For this reason, I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U100	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the commission, what will you say?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U101	This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U102	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - Member Cucin's proposal! Please, let's vote! -30, against -54, refrains - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U103	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of Members Jansons, Kursītes-Pakules and Teirumnieks, which provides for the statement of the fifth part of Section 56 of the Law in such a way that study programmes, including joint international study programmes, may be implemented in foreign languages, if it is necessary to achieve the objectives of the study programme in the following groups of educational programmes: language and cultural studies and language programmes. And in this case, all study programmes in the course of accreditation of studies should have received a rating “good” or “excellent”. The Commission took note of the views of a number of higher education sector organisations on this aspect of the evaluation and recognised that several of these organisations also objected to the inclusion of such an assessment. In the committee responsible, this proposal has been supported and included 12. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U104	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - a proposal from Members Jansons, Kursītes and Teirumnieks! Please, let's vote! On - 38, against - 42, refraining - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U105	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is envisaged to clarify the introductory part of the fifth paragraph of Article 56 of the law in editorial terms. In the committee responsible, the proposal has been supported and included 12. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U106	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - Saeima's Legal Bureau's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 52, for - 24, for - 3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U107	12. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Provision is made for the fifth part of Section 56 of the Law to be expressed in such a way that the study programme, including the joint study programme, may be implemented in the official language or other foreign language of the European Union, if it is necessary to achieve the objectives of the study programme, according to the classification of Latvian education in the following groups of educational programmes: language and cultural studies, language programmes. In this case, all study programmes in the course of accreditation of studies should have received a ‘good’ or ‘excellent’ rating. The Quality Commission for Studies shall decide on the relevance of the study programme to the groups of educational programmes. It is true that, as with proposal 12, a number of sectoral organisations have criticised the assessment aspect. The proposal is supported by the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U108	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - The proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please, let's vote! For - 51, for - 29, for - 3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U109	13. - Education, science and culture... I apologise, the proposal from Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, Znotiņš. It is planned to clarify the sixth paragraph of Section 56 of the Law by providing that a university or college is entitled to implement preparatory courses in order to prepare reflectors for studies in university or college study programmes. At present, such regulation applies only to foreigners. The proposal is supported by the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U110	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U111	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is planned to clarify the sixth paragraph of Section 56 of the Law by providing that a university or college is entitled to implement preparatory courses in order to prepare reflectors for studies in university or college study programmes. At present, such regulation applies only to foreigners. The proposal is supported by the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U112	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U113	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is envisaged to clarify the sixth paragraph of Section 56 of the Law in editorial terms. The proposal is supported by the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U114	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 15. - Saeima's Legal Bureau's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 65, for - no, for - 17. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U115	16. - Member Kucin's proposal. It is planned to supplement Article 56 of the Law with a new sixth paragraph and to provide that private universities and colleges may implement study programmes in foreign languages, including compulsory state language learning or partial study of the content of the educational programme in the state language. The proposal is not supported by the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U116	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Kucin. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U117	Thank you. The proposal is to supplement Article 56 of the Law on Higher Education with a sixth paragraph in the following terms: “private universities and colleges may implement study programmes in foreign languages, including compulsory state language learning or partial study of the content of the educational programme in the state language.” The proposal provides for a specific framework for private universities, giving freedom of choice of language, but also imposing an obligation to participate in the development of Latvian language. The proposal could be an alternative to limit the academic freedom of private university teaching staff and at the same time strengthen the protection, culture and development of Latvian language among minority students. Please support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U118	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U119	The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U120	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - Member Cucin's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 23, for - 59, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U121	17. - Member Kucin's proposal. Editable and related to the previous - 16. - the proposal and provide for the existing sixth paragraph of Article 56 of the Law to be considered as the seventh paragraph. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U122	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U123	18. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, Znotiņš. Article 58 shall be supplemented by the ninth and tenth paragraphs providing that the examination of professional qualifications shall be carried out in the official language. The examination of professional qualifications may be carried out in the official language of the European Union in which the study programme is implemented. The works and diplomas necessary for obtaining a Bachelor’s, Master’s and Doctor’s degree shall be developed and defended in the state language. The works and diplomas necessary for obtaining a Bachelor’s, Master’s and Doctor’s degree may be developed and defended in the official language of the European Union in which the relevant study programme is implemented. In the committee responsible, the proposal has been partly supported and included 19. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U124	Members have requested a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, Znotiņš! Please, let's vote! For - 19, for - 40, for - 24. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U125	19. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It is envisaged to supplement Article 58 with a new eighth paragraph by providing that the examination of professional qualifications is to be carried out in the national language. The examination of professional qualifications may be carried out in the official language of the European Union in which the study programme is implemented. It is also stipulated that the eighth paragraph of Article 58 of the law can be expressed as a ninth part, not as a can, I am sorry... express the ninth paragraph and add the tenth paragraph to Article 58 as follows: ‘The works and diploma work necessary for obtaining a Bachelor's, Master's and Doctor's degree shall be developed and defended in the national language. The works and diplomas necessary for obtaining a Bachelor’s, Master’s and Doctor’s degree may be developed and defended in the official language of the European Union in which the relevant study programme is implemented. In order to obtain a doctor’s degree, a detailed summary of the promotion work shall be added in the state language.’ The proposal is supported by the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U126	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - The proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please, let's vote! For - 65, for - no, for - 18. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U127	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Point 49 of the Transitional Provisions of the Law provides that universities and colleges whose language of implementation of study programmes does not comply with the conditions of the third paragraph of Article 56 which was in force before 30 April of this year shall be entitled to continue the implementation of the study programmes initiated in that language until 31 December 2025, but after 1 May 2021 the admission of students to these programmes shall not be permitted if the language of implementation does not meet the conditions of the third and fourth paragraphs of Article 56. The proposal is supported by the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U128	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 20. - The proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please, let's vote! For -62, against -no, abstain - 18. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U129	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, Znotiņš. It is envisaged to complement the transitional provisions with a framework which provides for the entry into force of the new regulation on the use of the national language and other languages of the European Union for study programmes. Partially supported, included 22. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U130	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 21. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, Znotiņš! Please, let's vote! For -13, for -38, for -27. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U131	22. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. provide for the addition of points 56, 57, 58 and 59 of the transitional provisions to the following wording:... I will probably not read the wording, but the committee has supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U132	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U133	Thank you, Madam President. Well, we know that there's such a saying "For an exiter either good or nothing." And in fact, looking at the content of the draft law, both in the debate and in the general Commission, why not? First of all, because the proposed amendments provide a very narrow understanding of how the decision of the Constitutional Court is implemented, including about what content the decision of the Constitutional Court also recommends to do not only to the legislator, but also to the legislator. Secondly. Not assessed, at least not currently available... and what we have been talking about today cannot be seen as an alternative solution, especially if we are talking about private higher education institutions. None of those present, as well as in discussions, deny the importance of the Latvian language in the process of learning, learning content, science and so on. But it is likely that the third case actually shows that the Ministry of Education and Science ignores one segment of higher education, which is private universities, including what these universities do in the field of education export. Fourthly, these norms will significantly limit education exports. Fifthly, there are significant limitations on the use of foreign languages in the general course of higher education studies, because the Ministry has imposed additional ingenious obstacles to the evaluation of programmes, which was also said in discussions by the people of the ministry themselves, that if, for example, there are 13 programmes and one of them does not get the highest ‘excellent’ or ‘good’ rating, then in fact all the programmes in the direction cannot be implemented in any language, including the European Union. And, sixthly, as I said, also education (A sound break.) ... It is, in fact, impossible to say good things, so I am not voting for the dead either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U134	I closed the debate. What do you say on behalf of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U135	The proposal is supported by the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U136	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 22. - The proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please, let's vote! For - 58, for - 3, for - 18. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U137	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. The law shall be supplemented by an indication that the law enters into force on 1 May 2021. The proposal is supported by the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U138	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Kucin. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U139	Thank you. Colleagues, I draw your attention to the fact that the process of preparing and adopting draft laws does not seem to be in line with a good legislative principle. This was not discussed with experts in the field. The amendments were not properly justified by relevant expert studies in the sector, and this is not at all in line with the internationalisation of the education process. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Education and Science has failed to perform its homework once again. And this time neither the Legal Bureau nor the Members managed to correct the mistakes of the Ministry with their proposals. With the approval of the draft law in this version, we are expected to receive the ordinary court proceedings. And who will be the winner in this process? Time will be lost, university development opportunities and quality education for our young people. I call for no support to be given to proposal 23 or to the draft law as a whole in the second, final, reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U140	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, what will you say, Mrs Golubeva?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U141	The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U142	Please call me! We will vote in favour 23. - Saeima's Legal Bureau's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 66, for - 17, for - 2. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U143	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U144	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Higher Education" at second, final, final reading! Please, let's vote! For -63, for -21, for -1. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law on Amendments to the Saeima Election Law, third reading. Name On behalf of the Commission of State Administration and Local Government Viktoras Valainis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U145	Colleagues! We work with amendments to the Saeima Election Law (No. 904/Lp13) at third reading. No proposals have been received for the third reading. I call for support to be given to the third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U146	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Saeima Election Law, third, final, final, reading! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Status of Member of City Council and District Council of the Republic”, third reading. Name On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government Ēriks Pucens. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U147	Hello! In the Commission of State Administration and Municipality we worked with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Status of a Member of the City Council and District Council of the Republic”. Two proposals were put forward and examined by the Commission. 1. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is editorial and supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U148	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U149	2. - the proposal of the Saeima Member, Kaspars Girgens, which provides for the exclusion of Article 15.1 of the draft law and was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U150	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U151	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that, without supporting my proposal, you are committed to 78 municipalities with a total amount of around EUR 11 million (calculated in 2019). At present, following the increase in the minimum wage, these millions are certainly even greater. In my view, we should support the people of municipalities more than Members by granting them benefits. I believe that it is wrong that, at the end of the employment relationship, additional benefits are provided for the chairmen and vice-chairmen, since local government managers also have every chance of then going into the unemployed or re-training, and this would only be equivalent to the local population. And this word for money... be able to be used for entirely different purposes where this is necessary. Consequently, I am calling very much for my proposal to be supported and for this injustice to be avoided, which has been the case for many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U152	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Ģürgen's proposal! Please, let's vote! For -11, for -45, for -2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U153	We have therefore examined all the proposals. I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U154	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Status of Member of City Council and District Council” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! For - 74, for - 1, for - 1. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U155	Hello, colleagues! The Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement” (No. 903/Lp13) and decided to support this draft law and to direct it for consideration by the Saeima at first reading. The draft law has been drafted by the Ministry of Finance to transpose into national law the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the promotion of clean and energy efficient road transport vehicles. The draft law provides for requirements that the contracting entity must ensure a certain percentage of the so-called clean road vehicles in each purchase of road vehicles and certain service contracts, thus ensuring that the minimum procurement targets for Latvia set by the Directive are met. The Commission has supported the draft law. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U156	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U157	The deadline for submitting proposals is April 22.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U158	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 22 April this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Service Procurement”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U159	The Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined draft law “Amendments to Public Service Providers’ Procurement Law” (No. 902/Lp13) and decided to support this draft law, to direct it to the Parliamentary sitting at first reading. This draft law is directly related to the previous one, which I have already reported, and has also been developed by the Ministry of Finance to transpose into national law the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the promotion of clean and energy-efficient road transport vehicles. The draft law provides for requirements that the contracting entity must ensure a certain percentage of the so-called clean road vehicles in each purchase of road vehicles and certain service contracts, thus ensuring that the minimum procurement targets for Latvia set by the Directive are met. The Commission has supported the draft law. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U160	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Service Procurement”! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U161	The deadline for submitting proposals is April 22.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U162	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is April 22. Draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Restoration and Resolution of the Activities of Credit Institutions and Investment firms, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U163	Hello, colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Restoration and Resolution of the Activities of Credit Institutions and Investment firms. It has to be said that this draft law and the next two are closely linked and are the result of the transposition into national legislation of two directives, which Latvia had to adopt by the end of 2020 by the end of December. So that's a little delay, but... Yes, and all these three draft laws provide for relatively complex requirements related to banking activities, covering both eligible liabilities and internal recapitalisation liabilities, capital buffer requirements, loss absorption calculations and so on. Very technical drafts. I call for support to be given to this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U164	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Restoration and Resolution of the Activities of Credit Institutions and Investment firms! Please, let's vote! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U165	The deadline for proposals is 6 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U166	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 6 May this year. Draft law: Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U167	Thank you. Yeah, as I said... The draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments’ is related to the previous draft law and the draft law has been examined by the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission. I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U168	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U169	The deadline for proposals is 6 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U170	So the deadline for proposals is 6 May this year. Draft law “Amendments to law on settlement finality in payment and financial instrument settlement systems”, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U171	Thank you. Draft law “Amendments to the law on settlement finality in payment and financial instrument settlement systems” is related to the previous two. Very technical nature. Applies to the assets and liabilities of commercial institutions... Let's say, calculation methods. In the Commission, this draft law is supported for the first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U172	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Settlement Finality in Payment and Financial Instruments Settlement Systems”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. And the deadline for the proposals, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U173	The deadline for proposals is 6 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U174	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 6 May this year. Next on the agenda - draft law “Law on the application of exclusion clauses to qualifying financial transactions”, first reading on behalf of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) – Member Jānis Cielēns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U175	Hello, honourable leader of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, At its meeting on 24 March, the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission examined and prepared for the first reading a draft law on the application of exclusioning deductions to qualifying financial transactions (No. 956/Lp13). This draft law is the main draft law in the four draft laws package. And this framework introduces one article from the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. The main objective of the draft law is to establish a legal framework that would provide for an appropriate exclusion netting regime... for derivative transactions and spot or spot transactions. I'll call out-of-the-counter netting regulation... the most important benefits. First, most importantly, the benefits of regulation are for the financial system as a whole, as the exclusion netting provides financial stability by significantly reducing systemic risk and domino effect when one adverse event, such as a default event, can lead to a series of subsequent default events. The regulation will protect the party to the exclusion netting agreement if the other counterpart is subject to legal protection, insolvency or winding-up proceedings. The regulation will facilitate the ability of Latvian financial market participants and large companies to attract cheaper financing in cases where the other equivalent is from the jurisdiction in which there is an exclusion netting regulation, because the absence of an exclusion netting regulation in Latvia as a risk is included in any product... the price of the derivative. Latvia is currently one of the last jurisdictions in the European Union, which has not received this positive opinion from ISDA, the International Association for Foreign Exchange and Derivatives. The introduction of regulations will contribute to financial market development and wider use of financial derivatives in Latvia. The Commission unanimously supported this draft law, and on behalf of the Commission I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U176	Please call me! We will vote on the draft law on the application of exclusion clauses to qualifying financial transactions at first reading! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. First-reading law supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U177	The deadline for submitting proposals is three weeks - 29 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U178	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 29 April this year. Draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Restoration and Resolution of the Activities of Credit Institutions and Investment firms, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Cielēns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U179	Good afternoon, colleagues! This is a related draft law - from a package of draft laws, the main one being the previous draft law on exclusionary netting, and this draft law sets out terminology and definitions according to the new regulation on exclusional netting. This draft law was also unanimously supported by the Commission and calls on the Saeima to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U180	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Restoration and Resolution of the Activities of Credit Institutions and Investment firms! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. And the deadline for proposals?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U181	The deadline for submitting proposals is three weeks, April 29, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U182	So the deadline for proposals is 29 April this year. Draft Act Amending the Law on Credit Institutions, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Mr Jānis Cielen once again. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U183	Draft Act Amending the Law on Credit Institutions (No. 958/Lp13). This one, too... This is the second related draft law in the legislative package, where the main draft is on the application of exclusion netting to qualifying financial transactions. This draft law also organises terminology and definitions according to regulation. The Commission has also unanimously supported this draft law. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U184	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. And please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U185	The deadline for submitting proposals for this draft law is also three weeks - 29 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U186	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is April 29. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Insurance and Reinsurance (No. 959/Lp13), first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Cielēns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U187	This is the third related draft law under the responsibility of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission... from the legislative package. And this draft law, too... There is not much to say, I can only say that there is also a set of terminology, definitions according to the new regulation. The draft laws were also unanimously supported by the Commission. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the first reading of the draft law amending the law on insurance and reinsurance.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U188	Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law Amending the Law on Insurance and Reinsurance (No. 959/Lp13) at first reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U189	The deadline for submitting proposals is three weeks - 29 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U190	So the deadline for proposals is 29 April this year. Draft Act Amending the Law on Insurance and Reinsurance (No. 952/Lp13), first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Financial Taxation, Member Lubova Švecova. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U191	Thank you. We work with Law No. 952/Lp13 - Amendments to the Insurance and Reinsurance Act. The draft law was examined before the first reading by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission and supported. The aim of the draft law is to take over Directive 2019/2177 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2019 amending Directive 2009/138/EC on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of Insurance and Reinsurance (Solvency II), Directive 2014/65/EU on markets in financial instruments and Directive 2015/849 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing... take over these requirements. The draft law was supported by the Commission. I ask Members of the Saeima to support this at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U192	Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law Amending the Law on Insurance and Reinsurance (No. 952/Lp13) at first reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U193	23 April
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U194	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 23 April. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Personal Data”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Aldis Gobzems. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U195	Colleagues! Before the second reading, the Legal Commission examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Personal Data” (No. 890/Lp13). Two proposals have been made. 1. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Andris Vītols, which intends to supplement Chapter VII of the Law with Article 22.1 of the following wording: “The inspection shall examine the application regarding compliance of the processing of personal data with the requirements of regulatory enactments and shall, not later than within three months from the date of receipt of the application, be responsible to the applicant for the progress or results of examination of the application.” The Commission has partly supported... Proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U196	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U197	2. - a proposal from the Legal Commission to supplement the law by Article 23.1 in the relevant version. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U198	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U199	On behalf of the Commission, please approve the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U200	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Personal Data” at second reading! Please, let's vote! For - 83, for - no, for - 1. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U201	Deadline for submission of proposals - 14 April.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U202	Thank you. The deadline for the proposals is 14 April this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Apartment Property Law”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Regina Ločmele. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U203	Hello, colleagues! The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has examined the draft law “Amendment to the Property Law of the Apartment” before the second reading (No. 545/Lp13). The aim of the draft law is to solve the problem of ensuring access to the environment in multi-apartment residential homes, because due to existing regulatory regulations persons with disabilities are denied free movement, but due to prejudices and ignorance of the surrounding persons it is in fact impossible to receive the number of votes specified in the Property Law of the Apartment for installation in a stairway space, so that persons with reduced mobility can move independently and live an independent, dignified life. The Ombudsman's Office also pointed out legislative shortcomings that prevent Latvia from fully fulfilling not only Articles 91 and 97 of the Satversme, but also the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, to which Latvia has long acceded. And for 10 years these requirements have not been met. Overall, six proposals have been submitted for the second reading of the draft law. 1. - a proposal by the Legal Bureau which removes the section of Article 9 of the Law on the right of persons to install accessibility of the environment (Not clear.) ... and transfer this part to Article 11 (i.e. under the section on the right of the owner of the apartment to renovate, renovate or restore the property of the apartment). Within the Commission 1. - The legal bureau's proposal is supported. I ask Members of the Saeima to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U204	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U205	2. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics Jurģis Miezaiņš. It was supported and included in the Commission 3. - the Commission's proposal. It also provides for all the methodology for solving the problems that I have mentioned, but, as I said, it is supported in the next proposal - 3. So if a vote is required, then perhaps one of the Members may request it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U206	Members have not requested a vote, they agree with the Commission's decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U207	Thank you. Proposal No 3. It was supported by the Commission. It has been developed by joint forces - as a result of the work of members of the commission, experts and the Legal Bureau - and provides that in future the owner of the apartment will have the right, without coordination with other owners of apartments, but subject to compliance with the requirements of regulatory enactments of the field of construction, to carry out reconstruction of the parts of the common property in order to ensure the availability of the environment, in the following cases: installation of the lift in the premises of the ladders; improvement of a landscape (or parts thereof) or of the access road (or parts thereof) located on a plot of land under the common ownership; construction of a ramp, if the property of the apartment has a separate entrance; in other cases, if it is necessary to ensure compliance with the requirements of environmental accessibility. This proposal is supported by the Commission. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U208	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U209	4. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics Jurģis Miezaiņš. It provides for the addition of the second paragraph of Article 13 with paragraph 3 in the following wording: ‘measures to promote the provision of environmental accessibility requirements’;... the words ‘with the exception of measures promoting environmental accessibility requirements’. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U210	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U211	Proposal No 5 is very important. It has also been developed by the Ministry of Economics and submitted by the Parliamentary Secretary Jurģis Miezaiņš. It provides for the addition of Article 16, second paragraph, point 9.1, as follows: ‘only the community of owners of apartments shall be entitled to decide on changes in the area of residential sharing rooms’. It is, in particular, a question of not including environmental accessibility devices in an existing building site, but, for example, building a lift or a lift that increases the area of the house. Such a decision could, however, be made only by the community of all the owners of the apartments. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U212	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U213	Proposal No 6 relates to proposal No 5 as it adds the ninth paragraph of Article 17 after the number 9 with the number 9.1, which was the subject of proposal No 5. Supported by the Commission. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U214	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U215	Please support the draft law “Amendment to the Apartment Property Law” at second reading. This was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U216	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Apartment Property Law” at second reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U217	The deadline for submitting proposals is three weeks, namely until 29 April.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U218	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 29 April this year. Dear colleagues, It's time for a break. Only registration of the presence of Members. Quorum has been established. Thanks, break by 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U219	Dear colleagues, We will continue to examine the agenda for the first remote emergency session on 8 April this year. On the agenda - consideration of Members' requests. Opinion of the Appeals Board Member Viktors Valaiņa, Evija Papules, Edgars Tatars, Ulda Augulis, Jānis Dūklavs, Janina Jalinska, Jānis Vacans, Julia Stepanenko, Karina Sprūdes, Gundars Dauges' request to the Minister of Health Daniels Pavļutas "On the list of “officials who vaccination is necessary to ensure national security and continuity of state activities” and on the adoption of a decision on their vaccination". On behalf of the Commission, Ivars Puga, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U220	Hello, colleagues, again! The Panel examined the list of Members Viktoras Valaiņa, Evija Papules, Edgars Tatars, Ulda Augulis, Jānis Dūklavs, Janina Jalinska, Jānis Vacans, Jūlia Stepanenko, Karina Sprūdes, Gundars Dauges, Minister of Health Daniels Pavļutas, and the decision on their vaccination (No. 52/P13) and, by voting five in favour and nine against, admits that the request made by Members must be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U221	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U222	Colleagues, this request is a strong illustration of the attitude of the government and the attitude of the ministry - whether it is ministries or it is a political attitude - towards the opposition of the Saeima. It seems like a simple request, where we asked in essence to show the chain in which the government came to such a decision at all, because in society it... You remember, one day in the company said, the next day there were people who went, stood around and who, of course, raised questions about why these officials were selected at that point, why there was such a hurry and who officials should then receive this pot. Of course, this creates such a general impression that it was, in fact, not a simple need but a desire to bypass personally, let us say so, the vaccination line. Of course, in such circumstances, we also wanted to find out how the government had come to this end. But, surprisingly, the answer that we received was the answer, and the answer was all possible: all kinds of generalised phrases: "the coalition group", "the operational management group", where such decisions were made - but there was no individual, no particular wasted way to be clear, understandable to all, that there was a situation such as that reached and what should be done exactly at this point. This, of course, was all the more reinforced, at least personally, by the suspicion that, in this case, there was simply a poor disregard for members of society and a queue of circumvention using the resources of power, hiding behind the continuity of the state... Such a setup. Of course, if we look... I have a clear interest in the desire to see what is then happening in other European powers. For example, Mrs Merkel, the Chancellor of Germany, did not choose to go on such a path, and under her leadership, such lines - let us say that there is no circumvention - there is solidarity with the public and with the medical profession, with seniors who are in need of this vaccine as a priority. I understand that I fully understand why there would be a need to do something like that, but there is a question about when it is happening and was it really so critical, was it really the actions of these officials... these habits... if we look at the government, has something really changed in the government, has the government really started to work on the ground after these subsites? They also continue to work remotely, separating from one another. Nothing in substance changed. The only change was that they got this pot out of line. In my opinion, this was a very bad signal, as has been done, to other members of society. It was also a demonstration of attitude towards the rest of Latvian society about how the government treats this process in general. As long as they are good, that's all that happens to the others. That's not right. The interpretation of this request, too, simply demonstrated, in substance, the Government’s desire to avoid giving certain answers, and in such general phrases as ‘operational management group’, ‘government as a whole’ and so on, it came to this end. No one exactly who's here... the Minister has tabled this initiative so that the government can vote on it - until we have received such answers. I believe that this request is still to be supported, and in essence... I think that many Members of the Saeima also understand that it is right that we, the applicants, have already done so, that it was very wrong, especially as regards the time when the first vaccines were received - which are those who run to get this pot as soon as possible. In my opinion, the moment was taken completely wrong when so much more important people, important people needed pots. And its desperate search for how to justify it was also, in my opinion, very critical. Critically, how it all happened. Thank you. I call for this request to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U223	The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U224	Dear colleagues, The request to the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavļutas, on the list of "officials who are required to be vaccinated to ensure continuity of national security and state activities" and the adoption of a decision on their vaccinations is very well-founded and up-to-date. I think that this demand will be up to date for a long time. That is what the people of Latvia should absolutely know about the government's work during the difficult pandemic year. The condition is, of course, that such activities can generally be referred to as ‘work’. This request is for the fact that the rate of vaccination in Latvia is extremely low, the organization of the vaccination process is characterised by chaos, inconsistency and irresponsibility, but Kariņš government ministers and individual members of the Saeima have received a vaccine against Covid-19 according to special lists, bypassing many risk groups - doctors, educators, residents of the elderly. In my opinion, it is disrespectful for tens of thousands of Latvians who have already applied for a pot but cannot receive it, and are not known when they will receive it. Vaccination of VIPs, pots for ministers and individual privileged Members, bypassing the line - in my opinion this is not worthy of the highest public officials. I call for support for the request and for the role of these officials in drawing up special lists and in deciding on their vaccinations to be clarified. Society has the right to know. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U225	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U226	On behalf of the Commission, as I said, the request was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U227	Please call me! We will vote for Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Evija Papules, Edgars Tatars, Ulda Augulis, Jānis Dūklavs, Janina Jalinska, Jānis Vacans, Jūlia Stepanenko, Karina Sprūdes, Gundars Many's requests to the Minister of Health Daniels Pavļutas "On the list of "officials who need vaccination to ensure national security and continuity of state activities" and decision on their vaccination"! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The request is rejected. Ivars Zariņa, Boriss Cilevičs, Ivans Clementyeva, Jānis Tutina, Arthur Rubika, Valeria Agešina, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Janis Krišāna, Igora Pimenova, Edgars Kucins apply to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On non-compliance of your government activities with your government declaration and violation of electricity market rules regarding OIC regulation”. On behalf of the Commission, Ivars Puga, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U228	Colleagues! And now the request that was examined... The Panel examined the request made by Members Ivars Zariņa, Boriss Cilevičs, Ivans Klementyeva, Jānis Tutina, Arthur Rubika, Valeria Agešina, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Jānis Krišāna, Igora Pimenova, Edgars Kucins to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On non-compliance of your government activities with the declaration of your government and violation of the rules of the electricity market law regarding the regulation of the OIC” (No. 53/P13) and, by voting five in favour, nine in favour and one in the absence of a vote, admits that the request made by Members must be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U229	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U230	Yeah, it's not... I don't want to talk at all about this. Because these OIC requests are one of the most visible examples until which profile in Latvia is... converted into democratic parliamentary supervision, that is, we have had entie - as you all know, entie! - the OIC's requests for factual evidence of non-compliance are disclosed and supported by facts which often show not only non-compliance but also irregularities, show gross irregularities, indicate possible fraud in a particularly high level of fraud. We are talking about millions here. And all this with the facts, with the documents being proven. However, in spite of this, the Request Commission and, later on, the Parliament decide that these requests are not justified and that they should not be considered that they do not need to be clarified. This is the current story, where in the same way we are talking about the current discrepancies. Now we are not just talking about irregularities, we are talking about the obvious crimes committed by this government, this coalition that came to power with promises that they will fight against the OIC and declared it at all... went to the auction, had gone to the extent that they had declared that they would eliminate the OIC at all - not simply eliminate the OIC sphere, but also the OIC. These are two different things - I would like to emphasise to those who do not understand this. It seems that those who took part in this auction did not understand it, in other words, they declared it. Well, then we asked what you have done to fulfil this promise to break down the OIC. We got... That was one of the questions. We received an answer to this question (and it was a question for Krišjānis Kariņš, who specifically recorded it in the government declaration) not about how they are trying to eliminate this OIC, but how they are trying to keep it. But it's such a more lyrical section. The specific chapter that we asked for - we asked Krišjānis Kariņš to explain how it has now happened that you, those who promised to fight the OIC, not just don't do it now, do not do what you promised, but even violate the law, namely, in 2020, that is, at the beginning of January last year, amendments to the electricity market law were adopted. You have all adopted them, you have all voted in favour of them. They provided for specific cases, specific obligations imposed on the Ministry of Economics in order to reduce the impact of OIC, the components of the aphere in this whole story. One of the tasks assigned to the Ministry of Economic Affairs was to change the arrangements for the prevention of overcompensation, namely that the prevention of overcompensation... When calculating how much further support the economic operator would have to receive, account should be taken of all the aid they had granted, not as the Ministry of Economics had so far anticipated, that only part of the aid had been put in order to increase the amount of aid... the aid could be granted by an OIK operator and should take into account all its revenues. In parallel, there was also a principle that has long been said... What has been said by the European Commission... having determined: in order to avoid this overcompensation, this excessively generous aid, expenditure should be... they may not exceed certain benchmarks. It's a very important fact how... a very important aspect of how so far many OIC operators have manipulated and provided themselves with unduly high revenues, namely, this profit margin that we set - nine per cent, which cannot be exceeded - is calculated on the basis of what has been not only the income of the trader but also the expenditure, that is to say, the greater the costs of the trader, because he is entitled to more support, and then to a profit margin of nine per cent. If regulations do not provide for any maximum level for specific spending levels, let us accept, for investments in installed capacity, then the businessman has a great opportunity to simply earn, link to himself a profit deposit, that is, sleep in as far as he wants, he will still get an additional profit margin from it, with which the profit margin - nine percent will be calculated. Many traders did so. This was demonstrated by the Ministry of Economy. We had a debate on this in previous requests. The Ministry of Economics said, yes, they have understood it, they even ordered a special study to really correct this defect, because otherwise - what happens? The operator who has the equipment can operate it in different ways. He can really... It has been set up in good faith and has been appropriately maintained in good faith and will be one level of expenditure. But he can do different things. He can constantly design something to repair, negotiate with himself, say a friendly company, to conclude an agreement that he will just make the major repairs or change the turbines for this machine, that they need to be changed. And in this way, perhaps very often also at a higher price, then these increased extra profits are shared among themselves, repairs are carried out. After that, all repair costs, in accordance with the rules established by the Ministry of Economics, go into it for the calculation of the overcompensation, which still accounts for nine per cent on top. It is obvious that it is being used because it is also demonstrated by the calculations made when it seemed to be recognised that there is overcompensation... These overcompensation risks exist. We see, the European Commission... This new methodology led to this overcompensation... These aid amounts did not decrease at all. The Ministry of Economics has therefore been shown with great rigour that, however, these benchmarks are necessary... set maximum... Let us say how much maximum investment can be made in a particular technology per installed megawatt, like for other expenditure items, let us assume fuel costs that must not be exceeded and similar things. That would give the businessman a chance to... This would make it possible to keep an eye on the economic operator's failure to carry out these manipulations. The Ministry of Economics ordered a study - for it has paid tens of thousands - to determine these benchmarks which now... And all this was done last year. Despite the fact that the law stipulated that these provisions on benchmarks should have been adopted already in August last year, this provision does not still exist. So the law is being violated. This new mechanism to prevent over-compensation so that we stop paying unduly generously large amounts of aid, which is to be measured in millions - we pay millions for all this, the whole of society more - the Ministry of Economics is currently taking this game as a argument to say that they now have a difficult conciliation process, there are many objections and so on. Well, of course, all those who are now at risk of reducing this aid will be opposed. They will object, they will write the letters and, of course, they will look for lobbying in other ministries, so that only such rules do not become or if these rules become so that they are made again so that they can be circumvented. That is what is happening at the moment. What the Ministry of Economics has demonstrated in its letter will no longer have these benchmarks in these regulations that have not already been in place for more than half a year. It is now also foreseen that these rules will be such as to legalise this possibility of circumvention and to receive unduly generous aid. This is also the case with the introduction of the single technology cycle principle, which was used to fraud and to receive undue support, to sell an unreasonably large amount of electricity when the process, which is the most energy-intensive, is separated from the process leading to... the production of electricity, that is to say, for these biogas plants, in particular the so-called corn blowers, which made the whole of this pressure process, the entire production process of this biomass divided into a separate society to biogas and then showed that the only one where they have electricity consumption is this cogeneration plant, where this gas is simply burned, thus making it possible for them to sell almost all their electricity produced at the increased rate, not using this electricity, a large part of it, to prepare the biogas for that other company. And the Ministry of Economics says it's all right, we'll let things like that. If the businessman has prevented them - this fraud - from doing so within six months, then we will believe that this has not happened at all. Here we are once again talking about the fraud of millions, which is thus covered by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Just like the Ministry of Economics, it has come up with this specific regulation. If you remember, colleagues, those who worked on this draft law - we have, however, anticipated that illegal and unjustified aid from the trader must be recovered, fully recovered and that the trader is responsible for proving that he has complied with these conditions. If he fails to fulfil those conditions and thus has received the aid unduly, the aid must be repaid. What is being done by the Ministry of Economics is once again trying to circumvent these amendments to the law, this foreseen regulation, by its regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, by stating that, in these cases, when the businessman has not complied with the conditions for support, he will not have to repay all aid, it will be enough if he returns for the last period, for the rest of this support he will be able to retain. And that's again... here we are once again talking about fraud, the damage that has been done to Latvian society by many millions. All these facts I am talking about - I am responsible for my words! - You all know, because the Ministry of Economics... Thanks to those amendments that we... what I was able to defend in the law at the time, it was planned that the Ministry of Economics had to provide data on the operation of the stations for the last three years. More specifically on self-consumption. It is obvious from these data that many stations have been operating and selling electricity in unwarrantedly large volumes for years: their own consumption was tens, hundreds of times less than it is technically feasible after these technologies, which in turn means that the stations had the opportunity to sell their own electricity much more than they would have been entitled to, because only the excess electricity remaining after consumption could be sold at the increased tariff. If, on the other hand, self-consumption is significantly reduced by tens, hundreds of times, for certain technologies this amount of self-consumption can reach up to 30 percent, then a much larger amount can be sold at this increased tariff. And these data show that these stations have been cheating for years. Here we are talking again about those figures. By putting them together, it's millions. Millions that have been defrauded, and what the Ministry of Economics is now trying to do with its own regulations in the Cabinet of Ministers is to make it against these demands... Amounts of fraud should not be directed... Colleagues, I am telling you all this so that, well, you can assess whether it really would not be worth us here in Parliament, especially those parties that have promised their constituents to deal with OIC fraud, to be clear and to recall here the Minister of Economics to tell us here and to account for why he allows the order of things. Why he's going to do, here's all these things that I'm explaining to you right now. To justify these facts, he will show the validity of his actions. If you vote against this request today, it means that you will first lie to your voters, you will not follow your government declaration and you legalise the fact that the Ministry of Economics may violate the law, because the law long-standing stipulated the time limits within which these Cabinet Regulations should have been drafted, and also laid down the principles for how these Cabinet Regulations should have been drawn up. None of this has been done! If you say today that all this is permissible, and you vote against this request and recognise it as unfounded, you simply make Latvia an unlawful state. The principles of justice are not working at all. And here I am addressing my colleagues from the New Conservative Party first of all - you who came here in the Saeima, with this slogan of the rule of law coming here in the Saeima, with everyone having to be... work honestly, courageously, wisely, and that you will be those who fight corruption. Then I have a question: with which corruption are you ready to fight? Only the one you're not involved in? If you do not support this request, that is what happens, unfortunately. If that is not the case, please apply for a debate and tell us why you are prepared not to support this request, because the facts are simply shocking. I call on my fellow Members to support this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U231	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U232	This request was rejected by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-08-PT13-2231-U233	Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivars Zariņa, Boriss Cilevičs, Ivans Klementyeva, Jānis Tutina, Arthur Rubika, Valeria Agešina, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Jānis Krišāna, Igora Pimenova, Edgars Kucins, the Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On the inconsistency of your government activities with your government declaration and violation of the rules of the electricity market law regarding the regulation of the OIC”! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The request is rejected. Dear colleagues, the nature of the first remote emergency sitting on 8 April has been examined. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. I'm closing the sitting.
