ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U1	Good evening, honourable Members and honourable Members! We shall continue to examine the agenda for the first remote emergency session on 28 January this year. On the agenda is the report by the Saeima Bureau on its own-initiative proposal. The Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications has submitted its own proposal – the draft decision “On the way forward of the 11 158 collective application of citizens of Latvia “Barger penalties for cruel treatment of animals”. If a Member objects to the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this sitting, please apply! Please activate section on procedure! Nobody's signed up. Thus, there is no objection to Members. ( Internouncing call.) Now... Yes, please. Yeah. There is no objection by Members. We will therefore begin to examine the proposed draft decision of the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications - Member Ilmārs Dūritis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U2	Good evening, Mrs Lībiņa-Egnere, who is very respectful! High honourable Members! On December 21, 2020, the Saeima received a collective application from 11 158 Latvian citizens entitled “Watcher penalties for cruel treatment of animals”. On 20 January this year, the Parliament’s Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application examined a collective application calling for: first, to increase to EUR 1000 the administrative penalty to be imposed on infringements in the field of animal protection; second, to prohibit the persons punished from keeping animals; and to establish a register of persons punished, available to the general public; thirdly, to grant control rights in the field of animal welfare to animal welfare organisations. The Commission heard representatives of the applicants who drew the Commission's attention to the relevance of the initiative presented, pointing out that penalties for infringements of animal protection were applied quite rarely. According to the applicants' representatives, the most effective method of achieving improvements is not public education but punishment. They also informed the Commission of the public survey conducted... about a public survey of its own, involving almost a hundred... apologies, thousands of respondents, as well as contacts with animal shelters, which have also expressed concerns about frequent infringements in the area of animal protection. The Commission heard representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture as well as of the Food and Veterinary Service who indicated that there is already an opportunity for every individual to engage in animal welfare monitoring, but no one has extended this public contract in 2021. According to the Food and Veterinary Service, the capacity of the Service should be strengthened to improve compliance with animal welfare requirements. On the other hand, the Ministry of Justice stressed that the perpetrators of the sentence should be able to individualize the sentence to be imposed, therefore the minimum threshold of the penalty should not be increased. The Ministry of Justice also informed that the functions of punishment, which is the exclusive competence of the state, cannot be transferred to public organisations. After hearing the representatives of the initiative, as well as invited experts, the committee unanimously decided to refer this initiative to the Saeima Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, as well as the Saeima Legal Commission for further evaluation. On the basis of the fourth and fifth paragraphs of Section 131.5 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission prepared a draft decision “On the way forward for a collective application of 11 158 Latvian citizens entitled “L more severe penalties for cruel treatment of animals”. Please support the transfer for further viewing to the Legal Commission of the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U3	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the 11 158 collective application “Barger penalties for cruel treatment of animals””! Please vote mode! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Decision adopted. Agenda for next sitting: Taking stock of Members' request. The request made by Members. Request to the Minister of Justice Janis Bordans “On insufficient action with the introduction of Covid-19 mitigation measures in prisons in Latvia”. Colleagues, I would like to inform you that the Presidium of the Saeima has received an application from Member Viktoras Valaiņš, by which he withdraws his signature on the request "On insufficient action on the introduction of Covid-19 mitigation measures in prisons in Latvia", which means that the number of Members who have signed this request is less than necessary. Consequently, the request cannot be submitted to the Requesting Commission. And there can be no debate on this. Mr. Valains, have you applied for motivation?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U4	Motivation. Yeah, motivation, that's it!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U5	The procedure? So, a section on the procedure... Please, Mr. Valaiņš, you have a name.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U6	Good evening, colleagues! Given that this week, in the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, this issue has been addressed and a large part of the questions on the situation in prisons have been answered, I have responded to this request. There is currently quite a lot of work in the Commission on demand. I think that there will also be other opportunities in the near future for Mr Bordan to come to the Commission on Petitions, so I am signing my reference from this request. And, as I said, we have received answers in some ways. It is a pleasure that the Head of the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission follows the requests submitted and reviews them in due time within the committee responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U7	Thank you. Consequently, the request cannot be submitted to the Requesting Commission. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Road Transport, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U8	Hello, colleagues, again! In the second final reading, we will consider the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Road Transport (No. 873/Lp13). The draft law provides for the replacement of the words “republikas miestas savivaldybės savivaldybės”, “republikas miestas” and “republikas miestas” in the Law on Road Transport, ensuring compliance of the law with the territorial division established by the Law on Administrative Territories and settlements. According to the draft law, with the entry into force of the law, special permits and licence cards of Jēkabpils and Valmiera municipality will no longer be issued. In the second reading, we have received seven proposals. 1. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau to replace the words "republikas city municipality" and "republikas city council" with the words "republikas city municipality". The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U9	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U10	2. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau to replace the words "administrative territory of the Republican city" with "administrative territory of the state city". The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U11	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U12	3. - a proposal from the responsible commission to list the national cities issuing special licences and licences for the purpose of carrying out the commercial transport of taxi cards. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U13	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U14	4. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau providing for editorial corrections. The proposal was partly supported and included in the Commission 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U15	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U16	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible which provides for editorial corrections to the second paragraph of Article 35. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U17	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U18	6. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau providing for editorial corrections. The proposal has been partially supported and included in the Commission7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U19	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U20	And seven. - a proposal from the committee responsible which provides for editorial corrections to the fourth paragraph of Article 35.1. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U21	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U22	I call for support to be given to the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U23	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law on Road Transport! Please vote mode! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. The next item is the second reading of the draft law on the social security agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of Guernsey. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U24	Madam President, I have a very respectful sitting. In its meeting, the Foreign Commission examined draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of Guernsey in the Field of Social Security”. No proposals were received from the Commission for the second reading. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U25	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second, final reading of the draft law on social security agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of Guernsey! Please vote mode! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Administration Structure”, third reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission – Member Inga Goldberga. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U26	Dear President, Dear colleagues, The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Structure of the State Administration”. The draft law prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture provides for technical clarification of the second paragraph of Article 98 of the Law, as in 2018, the Law on Data Processing of Natural Persons came into force, which provides that the regulations of the European Parliament and the Council are complied with in the processing of data. On the other hand, paragraph 24 of the transitional provisions is excluded because it has lost its relevance because it is possible for municipalities to promote business development and co-operation based on existing other laws. No proposals have been received for the third reading. On behalf of the Commission, please support the third, final reading of the draft law amending the law on public administration equipment.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U27	Please call me! We will vote for support for the third, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Administration Equipment”! Please vote mode! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Protected Services, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U28	Good evening, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Protected Service Law”. One proposal has been received at the third reading, and it comes from the Legal Office. It is a editorial proposal and has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U29	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U30	Colleagues! These are also all proposals for the third reading. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U31	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protected Services” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Next bill - Amendments to the Audit Services Act, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhena‐Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U32	Good evening, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Today we will work on the draft law on “Amendments to the Law on Audit Services” (No. 344/Lp13) at third reading. Three proposals were received at the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission for the third reading. Before we start examining the proposals, I would like to remind you of the most important of the draft law. Work on the preparation and development of the draft law took place in the financial... Justice... and joint working meetings of the Association of Sworn Auditors of Latvia... for about three years already - with long and extensive discussions on the need to change the process. The current regulatory framework was developed and implemented at the beginning of the independent state of Latvia. The planned renditions for the changes result from the year 2015... from the recommendations of the OECD Working Group on Auditor Information... For the purpose of limiting the bribery of foreign officials. This draft law provides for the regulation of the terms of cooperation and obligations for the sworn auditors, the companies of the sworn auditors... cooperation with law enforcement authorities. They state that when initiating criminal proceedings, law enforcement... responsible officials shall be entitled to request information and audit working documents obtained during the provision of audit services in order to be able to ascertain and obtain confirmation as to whether material value has occurred... providing the official of the State with property or other benefits in the form of bribery. Currently, sworn auditors have an obligation to follow international codes of ethics and guidelines, but they do not have the force of law. Proposals submitted to the third reading of the draft law by the Legal Bureau provide for improvement of legal technique and alignment of terminology with the Criminal Procedure Law. For the sake of clarity, it should also be mentioned that the Criminal Procedure Law was amended to specifically rule that in the future information of an sworn auditor in criminal proceedings will only be obtained with the permission of the supervising prosecutor. Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law, which provide for the above mentioned procedure, are already valid from January of this year. In order not to give a different interpretation of the legal provisions that are interrelated, the wording of the relevant legal provision was aligned with the Criminal Procedure Law. Now, on the proposals received by the Commission. 1. - The proposal by the Legal Bureau to align the wording of the law with terminology... with the use of the Criminal Procedure Law. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U33	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U34	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, Proposal No 1 (Article 25) and Proposal No 2 (Article 27)... Although they are editorial nature proposals, they still have a high content burden because they actually serve (not hearable). ... At first reading, the amendment supported by the Saeima on the permission to request information and explanations from the sworn auditor (quot), “if criminal proceedings have been initiated”. ( End quoted) This amendment has already caused great frustration by Members. The revised proposal allows the process promoter to request information on facts that have become known to the sworn auditor when providing professional services in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Criminal Procedure Law. In turn, I would remind you that such a procedure, which was included in the Criminal Procedure Law on 19 November 2020, by providing for the request of information from the sworn auditors, has already questioned the regulation, which established the independence of the sworn auditors or procedural immunity. However, the amendments adopted at second reading in Article 25 and Article 27 of the draft law under consideration will reduce the procedural immunity of statutory auditors and make it even easier for auditors to obtain information than for credit and financial institutions. Although, in legal terms, proposal 1 and proposal 2 improve the wording adopted at second reading, i.e. align the draft law with the current Criminal Procedure Law, it reinforces the critical norm, therefore I call for a distinction or no support from this proposal 1 and from proposal 2 (Article 27). Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U35	We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member, Ilze Indrickson.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U36	Good evening, colleagues! This proposal is only a continuation of this whole draft law, which is substantially extended, could be said to be the powers of the process promoter and the ability to obtain information from sworn auditors, thus fundamentally altering their procedural independence and, indeed, their professional secrecy. This proposal significantly extends the right in the direct direction that for anything he has obtained as a sworn auditor in the provision of his professional service, the process promoter will now be able to request and obtain from him this information in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Criminal Procedure Law... and facts... In the previously supported version it was clarified that only the client involved in this criminal proceedings... the facts on which this criminal procedure is conducted. Now, at this point - about anything that is also near or accidental, or simply in the vicinity of criminal proceedings. And it substantially expands this first version, as we say. I call for neither proposal 1 nor proposal 2. Generally speaking, this draft law also reduces the independence of sworn auditors. In my opinion, in the version already in force, that the court ruling could have obtained, as we say, additional information from a sworn auditor, that was absolutely sufficient. I call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U37	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U38	Good evening, colleagues! I would like to add my voice to the concerns that have already been expressed and to clarify a little more, in a broader context, what is happening. Although this proposal, the particular one, is indeed simply a editorial proposal, it is about Article 25, which contains the whole salt of this draft law. And basically, if we adopt such a draft law today, fellow Members, and legitimise what this draft law has intended, we do just a threatening, devastating effect on Latvia's important investment environment and economic sector, that is, audit... These auditors’ services. That is, with such an amendment, in substance, we are destroying the most important thing, which has led to the need for this sector at all, which is to be independent, competent (A sound breakdown.) ... who is able to entrust his or her sensitive commercial information to him or her and, in turn, that those who need to make sure that everything is all right may be able to receive such a service. Now we are destroying - fundamentally! - the institution of these sworn auditors. There will no longer be any sworn auditors. Now (Unhearable) ... It will not be possible to trust your information safely if we accept such a version. What is really embarrassing and worrying me is the competence with which this bill is reported at all. It is a feeling that those who have worked with this bill in this commission do not even understand what they accept, because what was talked about - these bribery, the bribery of these officials... This law has long been laid down. The auditors already have to account for this. Go on. If we are talking about these OECD and FATF recommendations, what they asked... It really was about this international... corruption cases, for this money laundering. And now these demands... the fact that they are currently in place... This draft law is simply disproportionate, disproportionate. The Association of Sworn Auditors of Latvia also pointed out this. However, its debate in the Commission was simple... There was no debate, it was like speaking in an empty eye. Arguments were submitted and no replies were received from the Commission at all. And the auditors show, with arguments, how inadequate this draft law is... amendments to the law, in so far as they are inconsistent with the objective being discussed. More than that. The auditors proposed concrete, constructive solutions to do so if the aim was to incorporate these OECD and FATF recommendations. This bill violates... just incomparably... everything that should be done. And given the country and the rule of law we are currently living in, this poses really serious risks, no matter what serious investor comes in here. Because now... by this regulation, if we accept it, and if we also accept what has already been supported by the Criminal Procedure Law, then we achieve a situation where, in principle, any investor becomes vulnerable if he comes here - he can... prepare criminal proceedings for him and extract all commercial information from him. And that's why nobody... An investor who will come in here will carefully consider whether he wants to invest in funds here, to disclose his business secrets, his know-how to be vulnerable, because when preparing criminal proceedings, he will simply be able to pull this information out. The fact that there really is such an opportunity and that they can really be manipulated with these criminal proceedings - this has been demonstrated by... I would like to remind you here of all those who were passionate about not giving up the Member's neighbourhood today, talking about arguments, manipulatable, politically ordered criminal proceedings - this is exactly the case that concerns the whole sector, not one person. Applies to the entire Latvian economy, to Latvia as an investment environment. Colleagues! Such amendments may under no circumstances be adopted. I'm calling... Against this draft law (not to be heard.) ... this proposal, too... It is not even relevant, as you will vote on this proposal, but above all we are voting against this bill. It must be redrafted and made meaningful and competent. And there must be a debate with an industry that will provide you with a constructive solution that is competent and sound... a solution which was not heard at all. Because the feeling that those who work on the Commission are either not meaningful, or they were not connected to this question at all. I don't know what they're doing. Colleagues! I call for neither this proposal nor this bill to be supported. Those who are going to support it and who have spoken so hot and defended the neighbourhood... in that case... on these criminal manipulations... Please come and tell me why in this case your opinion is completely opposite and you are ready to defend such a huge manipulation that can give a devastating impression... Harmful influence... give a devastating blow to Latvia as an attractive place for investment! If it's not just a political order (A sound break.) ... you are otherwise simply unable to execute your political orders, how to get through specific projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U39	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U40	Good evening, dear colleagues! Well, after this speech to my colleague, Mr Zarins, it would be a simple honour to come and work on the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, something that is otherwise impossible. One can agree in many ways with what the colleague said, except that there was no debate in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. The draft law was quite hotly debated both at first reading, second reading and in relation to third reading. Here, fellow Members, there is perhaps not much to add to what colleagues say. Unfortunately, it has already become a regularity for us, so that our attempts to do anything else to satisfy, make happy experts from FATF and... from OECD, FATF and Moneyval, and so on... Unfortunately, the officials are already offering things, not thinking carefully about the consequences of these proposals for the economy as a whole. And about this particular gift they hope to satisfy FATF experts - about this has already been talked about quite a lot. I, too, am talking about this when we worked on this draft law at both first and second readings. Once again - yes, it can really significantly reduce the quality of our business environment, our attractiveness to foreign investors, if we clash this institution of auditors in this way. Colleagues! The discussions that have been in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission... the law enforcement authorities are suspected of having this proposal - behind the Moneyval cover - to a large extent only in order to simplify their lives, so that they do not have to request permission from the investigating judge in the course of the investigation. And also for... As expressed during the debate, it is possible to obtain free advice from the auditors in this way if the investigators do not focus themselves on those financial matters. Perhaps in one recent loud trial in which the law enforcement authorities have seriously failed... it is possible that this was due to very serious procedural violations, such as a lack of authorisation from a judge. So we have recently seen... In particular, in the Commission on Budgets and Finance (Tax) we quite often see cases where the law enforcement authorities come with one requirement in fact: to allow them to do proceedings without the permission of a judge. Do it without the permission of the judge. I remember that today, when there was a discussion, a small discussion, one colleague's speech in connection with the Act on Accounting... I think it was Mr. Feldman who called... including auditors... Latvian Association of Sworn Auditors come with proposals specifically to members of the New Conservative Party... I don't know if the auditors were at the New Conservative Party on this law, but when the auditors appealed... When representatives of the Latvian Association of Sworn Auditors at the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission sittings appealed to Members, including Members of the New Conservative Party, I unfortunately did not see any response. Therefore, Mr Feldman and Mr Feldman's colleagues, if you are serious about this call to sworn auditors to come to you and to be heard, then it is a chance to hear them. Colleagues! I call on us not to support this proposal, nor the next one, nor the draft law as such, and to send the officials of the Ministry of Finance back to the table, so to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U41	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U42	Yes, in response to what my colleague Vjačeslav Dombrovskis said... I understand that I need to clarify my statements on this debate in relation to this draft law. Indeed, there were Members who were competent and focused on these issues and who expressed their views. Talking about it wasn't... When I mentioned the fact that the debate was as empty as it was, it was specifically about this debate between the representatives of the auditors who expressed their views and made their proposals, and the promoters of this bill, who were not at all able to explain and justify anything for them... and with regard to the proposals made by them. And that's what... I would call now on the leaders and rapporteurs of this draft law to come and explain why you ignored the proposals and the objections raised by sworn auditors, their representatives, and you were unable to answer at all. I hope that you will now be able to explain this. I call for this to be recorded in the protocol. So please come and say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U43	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U44	Good evening, colleagues! Well, the day has been interesting. Many events have taken place everywhere. There has been a debate. Bondar's signed up. Very nice. Mr Bondara, as Head of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, I will ask you... Human rights too... You know, because it's a violation... big because... Not in the name of the commission, but in his own name... never delegate Iveta Benhen-Beeken to report anything from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, because absolutely nothing is understandable. That's the point one. And this isn't the first time I reprove this. It's systematic... either a complete misunderstanding of the "area", or we are all perceived as complete idiots. And you, as chairman of the commission, just let this person here, who is also a Member... You delegate this very important question. Mr. Zarins, I forgot to tell you an important thing. I forgot to thank you for having been an axle Member who gave me the lawyer's number on 20 June 2018, when I did not really understand... Not left or right... Which side is, when KNAB's staff came to me. Thank you, Mr Zarins, for helping me that way and coming against me because you understood the absurdity of the situation. The same draft law and all three proposals. I believe that all three proposals must be rejected. If there is any reason, the rapporteur must say that there has not been a debate, why there has not been a debate when there will be a debate. And if, Mr. Zarins, you can also say that foreign investors can "click" to make criminals and then, through this criminal case, you can get any materials, including from the sworn auditors, then you only stress and still confirm what was said earlier, which was specifically about me, that... I'll have a Member for you. Let's make a case. Well, that's what you just said, Mr. Zarin. Here, there's an investor, let's do the thing! That means, for the whole situation... Who are those casemakers? That's, well, some executives, but what's the order? And forget about me, it's now the past, it's already gone, and the vote has happened, and everyone has voted by their own consciousness, so I understand. In the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Audit Services, colleagues, if I voted against proposals 1, 2, 3, I will vote against the whole of the draft law. I hope... And thank you also for pointing out to me that it must be done immediately... and must not, in any way, let such undebated, some officials not do their homework with the votes of Members of the Saeima. Come on! Let's forget all this! So please reject this... 2. - reject, 3. ... and reject the draft law as a whole. And, Mr Bondara, once again, I'm humane to you... Well, everywhere... I have also tried to ask, also during the budget when we examined these proposals... Iveta Benhen-Beeken... without infringing any ethics... Order Roll Point... Now I see that it is not possible to report on the subject. And that is very important, because the rapporteur has to tell everyone about and against - where we have placed this emphasis or, on the contrary, where other people have highlighted. We can't hear all this anywhere, never when Iveta Benhen-Beeken spoke as rapporteur. So... Mr Bondara, now save the face of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! You are the next speaker. And I call again... Colleagues, please do not support anything from this draft law, which is here for the third reading. Thank you. Have a nice evening!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U45	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U46	Colleagues, I would like to inform you that the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has supported all three proposals, supported the bill. Indeed, as my colleague Vjačeslav Dombrovskis said, there was a lot of debate on both these issues and others, so I can only reject... reject those who are trying to say that there has been no debate in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The budget and financial (tax) commission had a sufficiently serious debate and, despite all the arguments, Members have supported the proposals. Those Members who say that I should have a different management of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, I would like to say so: you do not teach me how to manage the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, and I will not teach you how to be good accountants... No, good Members, I am sorry. Something like that. Well, all three proposals have been supported, and the bill has also been supported, and I call on you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U47	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U48	Highly honored Head of the sitting! Colleagues! In my opinion, the problem in the rapporteur's report on this proposal, on the whole of the bill, is that this report was very unilateral on the part of the rapporteur, and only in my opinion Mr Dombrovskis and Mr Zarins, and also the National Alliance... our colleagues also told this... Mrs. Indricksones... this other side, too, is more detailed: which risk parties to include such provisions in draft laws. The Group of the Greens/Family Union will not vote today on proposals 1, 2, 3 and will vote against the draft law as a whole - as Mr Neighbours called for. We can only join this call. But, colleagues, the trend we have with regard to the introduction of different regulations into our draft laws... I remember... I used to work in the Ministry of Economics, I was a parliamentary secretary - not for too long, but yet. There were also initiatives with such an amendment, a similar nature, which, by its very nature, gives us the right, say, to use a method for force bodies - to turn to a person after a single violation and on that basis to seek other offences, the existence of which they are just suspected - is only such a desire to find something, but there is no basis for carrying out any checks. And the introduction of such norms provides opportunities, i.e. to start something one thing, but to end with something else. However, such an approach is indeed not allowed in the European Union at all. It is a peculiar mechanism for protecting entrepreneurs - that you cannot go to the entrepreneur for some minor violation and look for some major violations, watch his business secrets and get this sensitive information. Therefore, the adoption of such amendments will, of course, have some effect - just as we have all these consequences of the 'capital repairs' of the market. We're a lot... we have excessively incorporated into our laws various norms, where... quite simply the business tells its opinion by changing the country... right here in the European Union... our neighbours, perhaps closer or more distant neighbours, but here in the European Union alone, move to other countries where they are not subject to such requirements, where there are no such risk elements that one of the institutions can address them at some point. I am not in favour of such amendments, nor have I previously supported such approaches, and I believe that such an approach is wrong at this point in time. And, as I said, we, together with colleagues from the Group of the Greens/Family Union, call for these proposals not to be supported, 1, 2 and 3, and to vote against the draft law as a whole. Colleagues, I call for support for this approach - these are all Moneyval issues... we have a relevant subcommittee in the Saeima, we have a Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. And you can... Well, let's say... Let us use the exact words - to spread through various draft laws, but we should think about how we can achieve such an economic assessment of these issues in the Saeima - the impact these decisions will have on our economy because, of course, this issue is also annotated by annotations. There's definitely nothing... I haven't looked at it, but let me say there's zeros... And that's what I would ask everyone to think about, because a number of these decisions that seem to say "improves" our security and the fight against various evil forces... instead... We see that here in Lithuania, Estonia, Poland people continue to work according to other regulations, and they have no problems with it, but we are losing our competitiveness. And it's not a few million, it's tens and even hundreds of millions that our economy is losing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U49	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U50	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues! Yes, there was a very large debate on this draft law and on these amendments, and I, too, was in this debate in the first... second reading - especially... I was very sceptical about the offer of these officials, let us say, because now it is clear that this is from the same story, which is the financial sector's "capital repairs". And, I have to say, this composition of words is already beginning to become a llamas or a bad tone, because we see that in many places we are really exaggerating. And so this is an overcrowding of ordinary officials, let us say so, because there are no such demands in the OECD and Moneyval. And that is what I say to you as the Head of the Subcommittee on Financial Sector Supervision, who is responsible for monitoring and complying with these Moneyval requirements. That is why we really need to be very careful here, because audit service providers - this is universal, let us say that, the job, the profession that is - exactly that! - protected by the fact that these service providers... Sensitive commercial information is passed on to them, and it's all over the world... The universal principle, like lawyers, that they should not freely share, let us say, with this information, it is sensitive. And what we already have is that auditors have a duty to cooperate, for example in court proceedings, if there is demand, and there has never been a problem, as far as I know. So all the information is provided and so on. But here really the gate is too wide - to give only supervision, let's say... Well, at the level of the prosecutor's office... Because the problem is that often those prosecutors, supervising prosecutors, are there, or not, they... Let's say, her permissions. This is also seen in the case of the freezing of money. We have a lot of cases now where FID, let's say... If you send the prosecutor’s office an order, a request, there nobody really even reads it and does not go into the essence, and says, “Okay, it’s okay!” So that we will not be able to support these amendments or this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U51	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U52	Good evening, everybody! First of all, I would like to say that I hope that it will ever really happen that all those who carried out this "capital" repair and actually expelled finance from Latvia and destroyed the financial system of Latvia will be held accountable - everyone in a strip! Yeah, so where's that finance? They went to other European countries. We simply emptyed our country from money, gave to other European countries most of it. And this is the responsibility of politicians who are in power at the moment and who are proud that they are also running some commissions that monitor these "capital repairs". Secondly. In a normal democratic country, police or some... No auditors, no lawyers, no notaries, no banks, no... I don't care for him. This is subject to police inspection. And if a company is registered, it is checked by a public institution, a register of companies, for example, when a company is registered, and so on. In our country, the country itself is not able to do anything and then impose on the private, then punish them and drive them all out of Latvia. Get out of here all the time. All business is driven out of Latvia. That's what all business people understand and see, and they know. Tens, perhaps even hundreds of companies from Latvia are moving away. Let us not talk about finances at all, we can simply forget about finances. We took it and destroyed it. No other country has such “capital repairs”, such are only in Latvia. And I think you have to judge it. And I think the day will come when those responsible will be judged for it, because if all this money as if it were illegal would be so much, it would not be in Europe, it would not be in America - perhaps it would be in some mystical offshore areas perhaps or somewhere, but not where I called it. Prime Minister Kariņš is responsible for this, and all Members who have voted in favour of such norms are responsible for this. Therefore, I cannot support any of these proposals, but I must vote against them. And start at last defending the people of our country. And start talking out loud about all the “capital repairs”, structural reforms, success stories, champion titles and what else... Now there are also traffic lights... This government is like a traffic lights. Like a traffic lights! Talking one... No, think one, talk the other and do the third, and at the end - zero! In the end, everything is worse! Let's take any topic - transit, ports, finance... any, any, any theme. Now we also want to damage audit services to the end. Please reject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U53	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U54	Dear colleagues, In this late hour, however, I asked for your attention. First. Think about it - could it be that, in fact, behind those very general recommendations of Moneyval, there is simply a desire of officials (the law enforcement authorities - in this particular case) to make life easier? They know, after all, that many Members are ready simply to move forward, to support everything that is connected with the name Moneyval. The essence of these proposals is to do things, carry out proceedings without the permission of a judge. It is not that it was impossible; it was possible, but with the permission of a judge. However, the law enforcement authorities want to do so without the permission of the judge. Second. I would really like to welcome my fellow Member, Mr Eglitis, I think the only coalition Member who... Either, at least in the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) you see, understand and do something, you are addressing all these meanings associated with financial “capital repairs”, and this is the current point of reference. Third. Colleagues, many have spoken here today about what is happening in Russia and so on. You know what the latest news from Russia is? That there the law enforcement authorities want to change Russian legislation now in order to obtain the geolocation of people without the permission of a judge. Does that remind you of anything, colleagues? Here's the same thing: the law enforcement authorities want to get... to engage in proceedings without the permission of a judge. I call for no support, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-04-PT13-2189-U55	Dear Members and honourable Members, The Saeima Bureau has received a request from Members Latkovska, Adamovich, Kalniņa, Asheraden and Čakša to declare a break for the continuation of the first remote meeting of 28 January this year, on 4 February this year - a break from 19.00 to 9 a.m. on 4 February 2021. Please activate the section on the procedure. Colleagues, we therefore have to vote on this: the adjournment of the sitting. The rest would be up to 9 a.m. on February 11. Please vote mode! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So Members have supported the announcement of a break. We will therefore continue the debate on the legislative proposal 1 on 11 February. Registration of participants. It's been a success. The suspension shall expire at 9 a.m. on 11 February 2021. Goodbye. ( Interruption)
