ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Let's start the Saeima sitting. Dear colleagues, On March 25, 1949, the Soviet occupation power deported more than 42 thousand people from Latvia, and in total more than 90 thousand people from the Baltic States. Let us pay tribute to the memory that has been deported with a minute's silence. ( A moment of silence.) Thank you. Dear colleagues, We will begin to examine the agenda for the second remote emergency session of the Saeima on 18 March this year. First of all, reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Bureau proposes to refer the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Security” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On own-initiative proposals submitted. Honourable Members! The commission of mandates, ethics and applications has submitted the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application “For good death - legalization of euthanasia” of 10 505 Latvian citizens”. Please enable a section on the procedure. Thank you. In order to clarify whether Members have objections to the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this meeting, please apply to the system. Members have not applied and do not object. We will therefore begin to examine the draft decision submitted by the Saeima Commission. On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications - Member Ilmārs Dūritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U2	Good morning, very honourable Chairman of the Saeima. High honourable Members! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. On 12 February 2021 the Saeima received a collective application from 10 505 Latvian citizens “For good death - legalization of euthanasia”. On 3 and 10 March of this year, the Commission of Mandates, ethics and applications listened to the representatives of the applicants of the initiative, the representatives of the specialists of palliative care, representatives of various religious denominations, as well as the representatives of anesthesiologists and reanimatologists. A representative of the applicants for the initiative indicated that active volunteers... euthanasia, which would mainly apply to patients with oncological disease, should be voluntary and diagnostically justified in cases where an incurable sick person suffers insurmountable pain without hope of recovery. According to the representatives of the initiative, these could be 650 cases per year. A representative of anesthesiologists and reanimatologists allowed euthanasia to be legalized, but only in the case of several preconditions. On the other hand, a representative of supportive care professionals, as well as representatives of religious religions, did not support the initiative. After hearing the views expressed, the Members of the Commission decided not to support the progress of the collective application and to reject the application. Thus, on the basis of the fourth and fifth paragraphs of Article 131.5 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the committee has prepared a draft decision on the way forward of the collective application “The Lawization of Eitanasia in favour of Death. The Commission is asking... The Commission therefore requests that the vote be taken on the rejection of the collective application and that the draft decision drawn up be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U3	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U4	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I call for the vote to be taken against the draft decision of the Saeima proposed by the parliamentary committee, mainly for one reason: the committee did not ensure a full discussion of ethical arguments, why there should be a legal opportunity for a seriously ill person to decide on his life when suffering becomes irresistible and there is no hope of cure. The discussion was not attended by bioethic experts from Latvian scientists, we have one. However, several representatives of religious denominations were present. I would remind you that in Latvia the state is separated from the dogma of the church and religious denominations is not binding on society as a whole. Churches do not have a monopoly on ethics either. In a speculative society, ethics is a field of science and ethical nature judgments are better also to be adopted with the presence of ethical experts, regardless of each of us attitude towards this issue. The commission of mandates, ethics and application should not have prevented a full discussion of controversial issues in the Saeima. This is not the first time that the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application takes a decision instead of the Saeima... that on any controversial issue, especially those concerning the church's opinion, we should not discuss the Saeima at all. That is unacceptable to me. Therefore, I call on us not to support and respect those who are either suffering themselves or who have suffered from the suffering of an ill relative, to continue discussions in parliamentary commissions, including bioethic experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U5	Name of Member Janina Kursīte-Pakulė.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U6	Dear colleagues, Both the statement of the initiative “For good death - legalization of euthanasia” and the presentation by the representative of the initiative Pēteris Bukas at the meeting of the committee clearly talk about the legalization of active euthanasia, namely, targeted actions of a medical person to kill a person who, because of his suffering, expressed his desire to die. The introduction of such regulation in Latvian regulatory enactments would be a turning point from the previous 180 degrees. The argument ‘for’. The benefit of allowing active euthanasia to occur would be the possibility for ill people to voluntarily end their suffering. Arguments against. The first is the ethical aspect. Without an analysis of whether a person is entitled to take his own life, however, the question arises as to what the patient's desire to die is from the medical staff. If some of the society’s Hippocrates’ Creed “I’m not going to give anyone deadly medicine” now seems to be out of date and out of date, it is important to understand, however, to what extent the medical practitioner’s reality is psychologically ready to kill the patient and what psychological consequences such action would have for doctors and society in the future. Second. What kind of voluntaryity can exist for those severely ill patients who - in most cases - feel that there is an intolerant burden on all those around them - relatives, doctors and the state? Third. Misused euthanasia (I emphasize - opportunity!) . There is also the view that it would be possible to deal with abuse in some cases when dealing with a patient’s family, encouraging a seriously ill person to accept euthanasia at a critical time. Four. Ethanasia border. When euthanasia is legitimised, its limits may be extended by an undetectable distance. Shouldn't nine times be measured before cutting? Next. Vilnis Sosārs, Riga Eastern Clinical University Hospital Center of Oncology Center of Puncology Care (I emphasize - Punctuating care!) the long-term manager of the department, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application expressed the opinion that modern pain relief tools are available in Latvia. The general requirement for euthanasia is that patients who have not received pain relief or are severely depressed. Vilnis Sosars believes that more needs to be done to improve the condition of these people, not to deprive them of their lives. His proposal to the Commission was to reject the initiative, because first medical treatment at all levels, depending on... It also depends to a large extent on the conclusion of a person’s life. Next. More... and this is very important, also in response to Mrs Golubeva's extremely respectful opposition to the Commission for Mandate, Ethics and Application. A more extensive discussion about the euthanasia specialist (invitation - specialist!) Unfortunately, so far Latvia has not happened in the environment. It is experts in bioethics, in the practical and theoretical issues of euthanasia that discussions should lead to a much less unified view of both terminology and other specific issues. That's not the case. It would also be necessary to inform the general public in an understandable way about the different forms of euthanasia, about all "for" and "for" because this case is not limited to doctors. It is possible that a referendum on this sensitive issue would be necessary, because it is now a question that affects everyone. In addition, I would like to emphasise that rejecting the initiative does not mean that the issue cannot return to the Saeima agenda sooner or later, but it should be a specialist (I stressed - a specialist!) , not the commission of Mandates, ethics and applications, not all members of the Saeima in the environment... So - have to be carefully discussed and well-founded in the specialist environment. Of course, at last we have the opportunity to get to the first five European countries, but is this, specifically this, the thing where we should be at the first five? And finally, in response to the accusation of the call of representatives of religious denominations, I would remind you, first of all, that the treatment of euthanasia - an attitude that is at least present and has been in Europe for centuries - was formulated... It was formulated by Saint Augustine and Aquine Tom. Secondly. There are 1.3 million representatives of religious denominations in our country, at least according to official data. Although the Church is separated from the State, this does not mean that the Church and believers would not be able to participate in the decision on the authorisation or refusal of euthanasia, legalization or illegalization. Why were four denominations invited? We tried to be politically correct by inviting representatives of four main Latvian religious denominations. Their words took a third of the rest, in this case medical representatives, the space they said. The representatives, that is to say, those whom we invite to a commission meeting are not chosen by either the chairman of the commission or one or two of its members, but all of them submit their proposals, and they are also invited by agreement to be invited. None of the members of the commission objected to the invitation of representatives of religious religions and the hearing of their views. In view of all this, I ask the Saeima to vote in favour, in support of the committee's collective majority opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U7	The name to Anda Chakša.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U8	Hello, colleagues! I think the question... The application “For good death - legalization of euthanasia” is, in fact, a call for help from the people of Latvia. Call for help in two important things. One is the question of how much pain and palliative care is really available now in Latvia, because while palliative care is not available to all people who are in pain, we cannot put the question of euthanasia on the agenda. The second very important question is how much a person has the right to give up excessive medical assistance when we know that health is no longer to be fully recovered. Isn't it a question of the fact that... before we talk about euthanasia, we need to be clear about which person has the right to opt out of further treatment, from invasive, aggressive resuscitation if we know that quality of life can no longer be restored, while ensuring full relief in very different cases of illness. This is a call for help to ensure that the palliative care is provided to the necessary extent and indeed to all people in Latvia. I think this is a very individual issue, and now, before we have done these homeworks on the legislative process, which is partly, but not completely... with regard to refusing aggressive treatment, and before we have fully secured pain relief, we cannot yet talk about euthanasia. I call on those who say that this is a human choice to look for where your application for birth remains. Thank you. It is a free vote in our group today.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U9	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U10	Good morning, society as a whole! Good morning, 10 505 Latvian citizens who have signed an application “For good death - legalization of euthanasia”! I want to turn to you. I would like to turn to you to reflect on and withdraw your signatures. I will have just a few arguments, but I think enough to say that it is not a country that is not ready for it, not a healthcare system that is not ready for it, but... to say that euthanasia is not acceptable ever - neither today, nor tomorrow and never in the future. My arguments are as follows. A person should not take away what he has not given himself. Man’s life is invisibility, meaning, and path. No doctor gives life to a person, it's mystic. Just as mystic as a man goes. We as people do not have the right to intervene in this process, which is our way. Eitanasia is by its very nature a suicide. And suicide is sin. Eitanasia is the opposite of the doctor's oath. I'm going to say to you at Riga Stradins University... A fairly similar text is also in the oath of graduates of the University of Latvia - the graduates who graduate from the Faculty of Medicine. One of the points of the oath reads: “In the highest respect I will see human life.” And again: “I will not use my medical knowledge to violate human rights and civil liberties, even if I am threatened. I will not allow the patient's age, illness or disability, religion, ethnic origin, gender, nationality, political affiliation, race, sexual orientation, social status or any other consideration to be affected by the performance of my professional duties. And I will perform my professional duties in accordance with the best conscience, in good faith and in accordance with good medical practice.” Good medical practice is to fight for human life, not to extinguish human life. This is in line with the oath of Hypocrates. Any doctor who allows or wishes to allow euthanasia, violates this oath, violates God’s laws, violates the law on which we have entered this world and on which we have to go. And by the end. Any person who wishes to die, claiming that he is intolerant of pain, is unable to prove the extent of this pain. No one is able to evaluate what these pains are and how large or small they are. After all, if a person is able to express anything, apparently this pain is not so great. Yes, even if he may have an incurable disease... But, you see, life also happens to wonders outside pharmaceuticals and outside medicine - people tend to recover from incurable diseases as well. People can fight cancer. And it happens sometimes with the help of a miracle. Eitanasia should never be allowed in a country where every citizen rises up, singing “God bless Latvia!” Because euthanasia is against God's law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U11	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U12	Good morning, colleagues! I'll start with... I will tell you how I will vote and what I am thinking of euthanasia. My attitude towards euthanasia is quite reserved. I do not support this idea, I also think that a person needs to live, but I will vote against what the Commission for Mandate, Ethics and Application has decided, and I will try to explain why. Of course, each of us can moralise and tell everything he wants to refer to the authorities, but, as our colleague Anda Čakša rightly said, this application is a call for help. There are people who are hard. I do not think we should tell them that, yes, we will legalise euthanasia in the near future, but we have been elected to work to solve the problems. There are 100 Members here, not strikes, who can simply do nothing, can hide in the sand and ignore the problem. The problem is, and it would be only logical if we were to talk about the issue at the Saeima. Instead, I hear the opinion that we do not have to speak, because everything is clear to everyone. Well, that's not it! I have no doubt that 13. No solution could be adopted in the Saeima, but I think the right solution would be to set up a working group and discuss, talk about the issue, call experts. Of course, it's beautiful to live with your confidence and, once again, here just from the pub to say - no, it's bad, no, it's good. But perhaps you should also listen to what others say. No matter how paradoxical it is, we have such a perverse attitude... I think of those people who speak out in a strong way that euthanasia is not acceptable... actually does not protect human life, but, on the contrary, exactly then... Several people will die because we do not want to talk and think. Why do I think so? Very simple. There are people who are desperate, who don't want to live, and they're looking for ways... In countries where there is euthanasia, where there is such an opportunity, they come, they tell, and some people can convince, help, and save their lives. And in countries where it's just said: it's a sin, there's nothing to say... So what? Well, people find an opportunity to solve the problem. We can then tell you what we want, but if a suicide bomber does what he has planned, he's gone. He died. And died not because maybe he couldn't be saved, but because society was indifferent... Because we thought there was nothing to talk about. It is our duty to discuss all the problems, all the issues. Today's question is not whether or not to open the euthanasia office tomorrow; no one is talking about it. It is about whether we need to continue our work. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications decided: no, we can put a stop - there is nothing to talk about. But it's not! Colleagues, there should be a working group. Of course, someone can say, then form and speak. What's the point of a team if there's a peer... between you... will try to tell each other how to live? That doesn't make sense. The notion is when each group delegates its representatives. For example, from the Group's YOUTH Unity, I have no doubt there will be one person who will tell and defend the idea that there should be euthanasia, but there will also be one who will say no, do not. And I think these are all groups - there are different opinions. I do not know what the result will be, but we must not ignore the problem. Colleagues, please do not support this proposal... exactly the proposal that we... the draft decision proposed to us by the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications. I call for a working group to be set up and I call for further discussion in the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U13	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U14	Good morning, everybody! To a large extent, Mr Judin said what I wanted to say. I wanted to talk about two things - procedure and substance. On the procedure. If we have already created and accepted an instrument such as ManaBalss.lv, where it gives the public the opportunity to express their opinion, which we will evaluate, then I think it would be right to evaluate all - all! - initiatives entering the Saeima for which the public has collected the necessary signatures, unless these initiatives are manifestly illegal; it is clear that we, as legislators, have no reason to consider them. Otherwise, such initiatives would be considered, and that would be right to do so. All the more so if what we hear from those who have taken part in this decision is that there has not been such a discussion. So a normal, comprehensive discussion about this has not been in society, and it cannot happen objectively, because then someone has to keep it up to date. I think it would really be our duty to ensure that such a debate and to implement this comprehensive exchange of views so that we reach a conclusion, because everything is not so clear. What we have heard here today is that we have heard rather one-sided opinions. Those who did not have to face such a situation themselves were wise to say. I have had to face the fact that this way, in a tortured way, is passing by a loved one. Look how he can't... can't walk from the beginning, then can only sleep... Then, after a while, you cannot even lift a cup to your mouth, eat, and then you cannot do many other things. I would very much like to see those who are now wise to say that this is our way... that you can't even have enough when... continue exactly this path... I know clearly that, if I were in this situation, I would very much like to have this opportunity to stop such a path, stop the suffering of myself and my family. And it's just a normal, human opportunity. Speaking of suicide as a sin - yes, it is sin at the moment you have to live, but you choose to die. But if you are destined to die and you see that the end is coming and it is inevitable and right next to it, then it would, in my opinion, be the right and normal way to let it happen. And again what I hear here... I hear very primitive interpretations of how this could happen, that there should be someone who kills... And so on... and that someone else will take this decision instead of you and use it to kill people. It can also be done much different... in a completely different way, that man himself... help the same person accept... take this action. For example, as one of the solutions that is being used - a man himself... He's attached to his fingers, let's say one... on one finger to him... he gives himself, to whom he has added... The bedroom is given to him and the other finger, who relaxes after he is given, is accompanied by the appropriate medication to help him go away. That's how he chooses... If he is truly willing to do so and wants to end his suffering in this way, he himself makes such a decision, and then he is implementing it himself. No one has taken part in it. Well, as one example. Consequently, I will not personally support such a commission decision, because it really does not correspond to what we have set ourselves - that such citizens' initiatives can be put forward by the Saeima and that we will consider them in substance. And the other is that... Well, johohaid, we... I understand that our Saeima has been made a place where we do not decide anything at all, and that is why we avoid deciding on such serious issues. In my opinion, it should be for the Saeima to be the place where such a debate is being initiated and where this issue is being discussed in a comprehensive way, because this issue really is not so clear. And I would also ask you to listen to those who have faced this situation, and that will be a very different story that you will hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U15	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U16	Good morning, colleagues! Indeed, this is one of the issues that concerns people, concerns society. There are three issues: the use of the death penalty, abortion and euthanasia. All this is related to the question of living or dying. And all this is due to the fact that every person has his or her own attitude to this problem... these problems. When these cases are discussed in the public domain, the public usually divides into two parts - depending on the public development index, which would also depend on the vote if that question had been taken to the referendum. But it's not a story. Okay or bad, one, the other or the third - it's not a question of this subject... We are talking about the 10 505 citizens' application, which formulated the problem. It is not only a problem for Latvia, it is a problem for the whole world. But here, as Mrs Čakša said, this is a question of aid. And here comes the following. When examining this application, we decided that there was a problem that was described there, but we do not support the proposed solution. What, though, do we offer in return? Is there any problem like this? The previous debate shows that people do exist and are really concerned, but very individually, not in the form of collective thinking. So there's something to do. You can tell me... as proposed by Mr Judine, to set up working groups. The number of such groups seems to me to be approaching the population. You can try it. I don't have a recipe for what I should do, but one truth exists that I need to do it. Whether it is palliative medical care, whether they are other ways, or whether there is a sufficient medical base and availability of medicines, including drugs, is all a complex matter and what needs to be addressed. It is not a matter of adopting the law in this case, but of taking action to first of all find out what affects the appearance and development of this problem. The second is the question of what to do to explain and help. Help and explain. Therefore, I think that in this case the decision of the Commission is not particularly well thought out, especially if you take into account that there is no other possibility for Latvian citizens to set, formulate, propose and consider problems. And so... If we think about action, then this type of decision would not be particularly correct. It seems to me that we should not think about how to reject it, but about what to do and how to do for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U17	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U18	Madam President, colleagues. Colleagues have spoken a lot, and it turns out that those who speak later actually reflect what they speak. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this demand is one of those where there is really a call for help: Members, look, there are not systems in Latvia, but there are people! People say, make us help! Medicine has now evolved so that the issue of less pain, decent departures, and several countries, too, can be addressed. I would like to call now on the coalition Members who, always and everywhere, voting in the majority, are basically rejecting good initiatives. This application calls for a solution to the problem, as colleagues have said today - to solve the problem, not simply to wipe out and say: let us put the system in order, and then... Let us remember that this system is not just... in the system and laws, and in many proposals and votes... and not the fight against those who think differently, but the people who live in Latvia! Dear coalition, maybe this time change your opinion and admit: yes, there is a problem in Latvia, and the problem is called “medicine, medical system, health care”. We use different foreign words and say that, yes, we have palliative care, many more things, but where is the solution? I agree that working groups can be formed, but Mr Judine, you open your eyes and see - Saeima, Republic of Latvia 13. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Be realistic, too, in this political order, not just speak... Only in the past. In my opinion, this application should be supported and worked by a number of commissions, including the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs and the Legal Commission... and perhaps another commission to look at how to support health, how to allocate the necessary financial resources to address... to also provide such assistance to people who really need more careful and much more help because of health problems - and not when I put the system in order, but now. Now! People are asking to turn to people in Latvia now, especially in health care. Second. A little bit of comparison... Colleagues of the coalition, how do you - do you support or do not support what people are asking for through this system of collection of signatures and submission to the Saeima? Consider whether this type of request for assistance is ethical in nature or otherwise comparable to the ban on fireworks that you support, such as that on which two commissions worked. But here you are simply saying: no, no, let's not talk about this because we have to arrange something else. Decide and do! Give funding to health care, to the health system! Open your eyes - there's a Covid-19 situation! We see that such action is needed now and not at some point when you... Dear colleagues, who are medical... You'll arrange the system. I invite you not to wash this matter under the carpet and work with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U19	The name of Member Janina Kursīte-Pakulė for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U20	Dear colleagues, No one has ever... I can at least judge myself... Nobody says we don't have to talk to the Saeima. I didn't say that. But first we have to talk and... the question must be prepared and justified before the Saeima, and not by the Saeima to do everything from "A" to "Z". In four years - in four years! - the collected 10 thousand signatures on the ManaBalss.lv euthanasia legalization portal represent approximately 0.5 percent of Latvia's population. We do not know what others think. I have no doubt about the wisdom of Mr. Zarins at any time, but I just want to point out to him that I have not said for any moment that I am wise on this matter. First of all, I think it is necessary to discuss the specialists - I have already said this - and only then - in the Saeima, if it can... Mr Dolgopolov has already mentioned - is a working group at the end of the working group... The question of the specialist, namely of the specialist, should be prepared and discussed first and then only in the Saeima. I already stressed what was also at the commission meeting... what Mr Sossara said is that the state should give more support to palliative aid - there is no doubt about it, but the palliative aid is one, and the legalisation of euthanasia is something quite different. It is, of course, our own freedom to vote as we see. But are about 0.5 percent of the people going to want to be more or more of them? This question, I repeat and emphasise once again, is a question that affects all Latvian citizens. This is not a question of fireworks, which may or may not be. This is a question of life or death, of taking away life or not taking away life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U21	Name to Member Andris Flyre.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U22	Good morning, Madam President. Colleagues! Yes, the question is really complicated. And I want to... Let me start by saying that, although I abstained in the committee at the time, I have devoted time in this interval... and I have talked a lot to my colleagues about this problem with the public. It has to be said that most people are really saying that we must not simply wipe this problem somewhere under the guise and not debate it. I would also like to say that we cannot quite put in one basket palliative care and euthanasia. Yes, it is quite clear that palliative care in Latvia is currently at a rather low level. Although new beds are being created and additional funding is already being allocated gradually, it is still far from the palliative care of Western European countries. But if we are talking about euthanasia, I think that is as much a question as colleagues have already said. This issue concerns not only medicine, but also human rights, legal matters... rights. This should certainly continue to be the subject of at least three discussions, as I see, in the commissions - the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs, the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs and the Commission on Legal Affairs. There was also much talk about oncolology, about pain. I would like to say that the issue of euthanasia and the desire of patients is not just an oncological patient. There are a lot of diagnostics that are neurological. For example, the patient has actually been under pressure for several years or, to say, for months... He's not hurting anything, but he's forced to spend time with an artificial ventilation unit at his disposal. I think there are a lot of medical cases, yes, that we must allow a person to choose how he lives... Let us tell you if it is worthy of human life. All of us, I think, well remember the story of Viesturs Bundza. Several years ago, Viesturi, who had already left, wanted to make euthanasia in Switzerland, but then, because of all those procedures, it failed, as he says, because its procedures are long to do it in other countries. But it's happening in other countries, it's happening... I would also like to say that we do not always have a lot of painkilling resources at the moment... The classics are, of course, morphine... The morphine is not always able to relieve all the pain and all the conditions that patients with oncology also experience. And if we read a lot of literature, then even Aksela Munte’s novel “Story of Sanmiquel”, which is a book of doctors... And there's a lot of... In fact, it is precisely this issue that the Swedish writer and doctor, Axel Munte, have touched on, and I call on colleagues to read this book. I also agree with Mr Zarins on these primitive interpretations, which have often been expressed. I think we are probably afraid as a society, and then we want some wonder or opinion from above or from religious organisations, but I would like to remind you that we are still a secular state. And here more I would like to put the issue of human rights at the forefront. Also... Well, often... I have heard many times - in the Commission and here too - about those miracles, but, my fellow Members, I really... Whatever you want... No matter how I want to see miracles every day in my work, there are people who have a serious disease - a severe neurological disease or some motoneurone disease, or a tumor with metastasis in all possible places... Unfortunately, there are no such medicines at present and there will not be any such medicines. Wonders in this respect, if we want to call them... We can call a miracle a lot, but wonders are unfortunately not happening. Of course, there are diseases that can be treated, and oncology is one of those areas where more and more new drugs enter, but in any... Also in oncology... It's its final stage ever. But then... My call to colleagues is as follows. I call for this collective application not to be rejected. It is nothing that these are just today 10 505, there have been public surveys on this, and many more people are already participating in the public surveys, and we can get to know anyone about such public surveys, and the public is really discussing this. What else I can say is that, yes, this is the first way in which the patient's will is arranged. What Mrs. Chachsh said is that the patient should not be reanimated, revitalised or used drastic methods when it's over... terminal disease status. Yes, it must start with it. Together with my assistants and colleagues, I have prepared proposals and have already tabled proposals in the political group. We are now discussing this very issue of patient will in the political group, let us certainly also suggest that other political groups support it, but that is the first step. And the second step, which is neither tomorrow nor another one, is to be resolved, where it is already about either the committed suicide or active euthanasia - this is something that we certainly need to continue to discuss. And I'm calling you not to wipe it under the guise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U23	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U24	Hello, Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that in this institution we do not give life to anyone or take it away. The only duty is to vote in favour of the democratic procedure for dealing with the problem. In this case, we will not vote either for life or for death, but I think everyone agrees that a number of sittings are rather technical, not many of us are interesting and not even late in our memory. Now, of course, the question is different. The situation is very painful. In my opinion, we should consider this proposal from the notifier only because oncology diseases are one of the most common causes of death of Latvian citizens. Of course, as a majority of you, I would very much like us to discuss now not euthanasia, but the possibility of early diagnosis and treatment of cancer for all patient categories. Unfortunately, the subject of the collective communication concerns the possibility of voluntary departure. I would like to remind you about one well-known person from Latvia in this regard... who was also my friend. He was a politician, a very professional lawyer, a wealthy man, loved by beautiful women. But he got cancer. After that he fought for several years, he even wrote some interesting books, two of which I translated from Latvian to Russian. And then this man shot himself in the heart, shot himself with a gun. Before he developed his own gravestone, he chose an epitaph. But, you know, not everyone is brave. And not everyone has such opportunities. As a result, cancer patients sometimes commit suicide attempts. Indeed terrible things are happening in these attempts, and people suffer from it. And I think we all need to think and push this into discussion with the Saeima Profile Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U25	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U26	Dear colleagues, The question is not an easy one, but I will call on you today to vote in favour of the Commission's decision, which is to reject this initiative. So if the Commission has decided to reject the initiative in this case, I support the Commission's decision, and I will explain why. A lot of colleagues have mentioned this... Yes, difficult emotional arguments. I would like to touch on a matter such as the legal aspect. And we can read this initiative again and see that it is not just supporting active euthanasia, but it is... This includes cases where a person cannot make a decision and instead take a decision by his or her relatives. This is one of the most difficult aspects of the case law, in my opinion, because I wouldn't want this kind of litigation to start in Latvia, and I'll explain... For example, a short time ago, in 2018, in Liverpool, the court ruled on the removal of a baby, a under-year-old infant, Alfi Evans from the system. In the court there were parents on one side of that baby and on the other side there were representatives of that baby from the country, so-called guardians, who represented the best interests of the child and who considered that the child should not live further because of a very serious illness that does not give any prospects. The parents believed in a miracle, and the parents had every right to believe in a miracle and to fight for their child’s life in court. Just like in France shortly ago Vincent Lamber, an adult man, was cut off from the system because he had been on the system for a long time since 2008 and has not managed his life, like some colleagues... As Mr Skride said, the quality of driving forward, and there was also a court. And the wife of this man was present against the fathers of this man. The wife was told that the man did not want to live further, but the parents had received information from the same man that the man wanted to live, or the parents believed that the man wanted to live and that he should not be disfellowshipped. And everything ended with the fact that the court ruled that this man should be disfellowshipped from the system, but after a few hours this decision was annulled. It was too late, and the man had gone. Do you think we... In Latvia, there should be further degradation of the law and the judicial system with this kind of decision, with this kind of debate in the court and with a situation in which parents have to fight for their child's life, not because they lack funds, as is often unfortunately the case in our country, but because the court or someone else believes that their child does not have to live. Think about it, too. I call for support for the Commission's decision to reject this initiative. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U27	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U28	Thank you, Madam President. Well, fellow Members, you are teachers, medical doctors, lawyers and... many other professions. Remember, we're human first! And I would just like to say briefly: in my opinion, this vote is not 'yes' or 'no' to euthanasia; it is 'yes' to whether we, medical professionals, lawyers, teachers and other professions can actually do something about it when we are working as Members. This is a vote in favour or against. People have asked for concrete help. The length of the discussions or the content of the discussions will, of course, be different, personal or non-personal experience for each of us, but this, I repeat, is not a vote in favour or against euthanasia. This is a vote on what can or cannot be done in the area of health, human rights and many other areas. I call on us not to think about these legal examples before the vote, but on whether we, teachers, medical professionals, lawyers and other professions, when working as Members, can help our fellow people without relying on personal experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U29	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U30	Dear colleagues, The question is perhaps not about the subject to be discussed, about euthanasia, about procedural matters. It seems to me that it would perhaps be right if the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications discussed the question of how we will continue to work on these initiatives presented by Latvian citizens. And here are two solutions. Dismissable application... Whereas, at this time, a decision of the Commission is proposed. In this case, there is always a debate about it - right or wrong, good or bad. If the Commission supports the application, the debate does not appear, just voting is taking place, and amen, everything goes ahead. The Commission does not, by its very nature, support the initiative itself. It determines the path that is possible to deal with the problem that has been raised in the application. So here we need to think about how to deal with these submissions in the future. And maybe even in the case that the Commission considers that this issue has been formulated in a wrong way, is not in accordance with the Constitution, human rights norms or something else, I think it should be thought that an additional decision might appear here, as it is in the court, where appropriate steps should be recommended, so that this problem is not left to the heat of the air. That's why... I think, therefore, that this question... much more serious than even each other, which is even being raised in submissions... because there depends on trust, citizens' trust, parliaments, parliamentarians, and trust in the system as such. That is why I think I will be voting against the Commission's decision in this case. It is from this recital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U31	Name of Member Maria Golubeva. ( Pause) Let's give the next word. Name to Member Ilmar Duritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U32	Good morning, honourable colleagues! Yes, I listen carefully to the debate and what colleagues have said... As a member of the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Applications, I too would like to say a few things that may have been said by colleagues, but perhaps not very bright enough. First of all, I would like to thank all the citizens who signed this initiative because of the doubt... I think that no one can deny that such an initiative encourages us and, in fact, in society, but especially in politicians, as we see it today, to think about the state of, namely, the situation in which the seriously ill people in Latvia or, let's say, people in very different circumstances say they're going back to life and how we're like a country... how much we have done and what we plan to do. Although, from this point of view alone, I think that such an initiative is very good and very welcome. Talking about it... because, of course, we want to vote today as if... It is purely humane to think whether we are on euthanasia or whether we are against euthanasia, but in this context, we need to understand and think about the circumstances in which the person who makes this decision to leave life, to voluntarily leave life. Whether circumstances are as good as possible. Or, as we know, there is enough pain, or psychotherapy and many, many other very important considerations. I have to say that, in this situation, I think, and this is what experts say, the state has... our country has very, very, very much to do. If we look at, for example, how much has been planned in both oncological treatment plans and palliative care development plans... These plans have been... Unfortunately, funding has often not been allocated to them, and this is a major, major problem. So I also heard from the experts who had been invited to the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application, that often, in difficult circumstances, a person is in pain, suffering, shortness of breath, really unwilling to live, he wants to go away, he wants to end suffering, at the same time, significantly improving conditions, exacerbating, providing psychological advice, revitalizing the joy of life... for a short time, but this happens, and these thoughts change. So before we decide whether or not to have euthanasia, active euthanasia, we need to understand that we have really secured these conditions - the conditions that have been possible to help a person, as long as this is possible. And it's fair to say that here the country is much more and much more careful... and much more money needs to be invested. Undoubtedly, such an initiative will also contribute to the resolution of palliative care, including pain relief, as well as other such conditions. I would like to say that before the Covide's time, if it could be said before the Covide's crisis, the Ministry of Health also started working on the so-called regulation of the last will, where a person could legitimately express his last will, which could also include information that, when you become irresistible ill, you have the right to choose not to be intensively treated, not to be aggressively maintained for your life. It is really the rights of every human being. In my opinion, this is a very important regulation and it could be a first step - as Mr Skride has already said in his commission - with which we should move forward. On this particular initiative, I believe that indeed we need to think more today when we vote, not about the process as such, about the procedure for euthanasia, but whether we really want to debate and to keep the situation up to date. And I would say clearly, yes, we have to talk about this, we have to debate it, we have to listen to experts, so I did not support the rejection of this initiative in the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications. The feeling of listening to the invited people was very controversial, I would like to say. Of course, I have always considered that the discussion and work on this should be continued, but at the same time, we are not prepared to introduce an active process of euthanasia today, because simply we have not provided the conditions for people in this situation. Without providing these conditions, we really face a great moral problem that instead of giving or... actually instead of giving money and sort out, such as palliative care, hospice and so on, we would choose it in a very simplified way to address this problem. And on that simplified problem-solving, I... I cannot support that. Not even one life, not to mention human life, but other lives, including animal life. In my opinion, this step on euthanasia must be taken when everything we could really do is really done and a real person has decided that he does not see the prospect of his life going on. In conclusion, therefore, colleagues, I call, however, for not to support the rejection of the Commission on Mandates, Ethics and Applications and to support this initiative so that, beyond this, we can continue the discussions and address this important issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U33	The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U34	Good morning, colleagues! I would like to touch a little on this issue today, on the other hand. Clearly, suffering is still a blessing in life, and one can feel it, experience negative emotions, and still experience it. After death, there is no way to worry, so even in pain, there is always more blessing than death. The patient’s conscious desire to end suffering is not sufficient reason for euthanasia. Allowing euthanasia on the sole basis of the will of a dying person makes euthanasia a suicide. If a person only has value when he is alive and keeps reason, then our culture... did not become what it was like. Since ancient times, people have treated the dead with plunder and honoured burials, despite the fact that the bodies of the dead had long become dust. A loved one who is in a coma or a vegetarian state deserves no less respect than a deceased relative... Mortal residues. Life in a vegetarian state is also life. To put an end to life simply because of this condition is equivalent to felling wood simply because it is not human. A seriously ill person deserves no less worrying treatment than wild animals... nature. The introduction of euthanasia is threatened by abuse. The lack of control over euthanasia, in particular forced euthanasia, can lead to its use in a situation where it can be avoided, and moreover, euthanasia, which has not been carried out in the best of the mortal's will, can be used for the motives of mercenaries from his heirs or third parties. From pragmatic arguments... before supporting or rejecting... Members' attention: in developed countries such as Switzerland, euthanasia costs EUR 10 000. Another question arises here: if a person cannot afford quality care and pain medication, or will he be able to pay at all the price of the service he wants to have been introduced by liberal-minded colleagues. I call on you not to play with human lives and to support the decision made by the Commission, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U35	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U36	Colleagues, life is worth it. There are families who spend all their time to save their fellow human lives, and in a good coincidence of circumstances, they will succeed. There are families where peers cannot be saved, whose spirit is still strong, but the body is no longer and never will be strong. He has to suffer enormous humiliating physical and psychological suffering, but despite these sufferings, which can sometimes last for many years, his life cannot be saved. I ask Members of the Saeima to put an end to this debate, where we moralise a person's end to life in front of the television cameras. I call on the Saeima to vote without any further debate on the progress of the citizens' initiative, either in favour or against, but to close this debate, where we moralise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U37	The name of the Member, Maria Golubeva, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U38	Dear colleagues, There have been so strong arguments that I do not want to repeat them again. I think that these are important enough and you have all heard them, but I would like to rebut some false claims, in my view, that could affect our decision, because we still need to make these decisions rationally. First of all, the courts and abuse. No moment, as far as I am concerned, the initiative applicants have not talked about the possibility of ending life for someone who is not an adult and has not decided on it. And we are not already discussing, at all, whether or not there should be such a legal possibility. We are discussing whether there should be a debate in the Saeima. In this case, I think it is rather demagogical to call on babies who have been decided by someone else, this is not an initiative at all. I think we should also talk about further degradation of justice... In Latvia, the judicial system does not degenerate; in Latvia, the judicial system develops and, as in the whole world, court practice and laws increasingly take into account humane considerations and different human conditions and psychological needs. If ever it was thought that depression does not exist as a disease and that it just needs to get in, then today all scientists and doctors know that depression exists and it is a real problem, it is a disease that needs to be treated. In a similar way, offer a person who suffers from an incurable pain due to cancer or other terminal disease, which unfortunately is no longer treatable... offer him to be patient and enjoy the blessing of life, or to think about whether he should apply for some other solution for the conclusion of his life... I think it should, however, be a human choice, not a Member or a country. The hardy state that does not allow people to make a family at their own discretion does not allow them to decide on a dignified end to their lives and sufferings, in my opinion, is not the country with which we should be particularly proud. We should go to a humanitarian state that takes into account the humanitarian needs of people. I therefore call on you to vote against the draft decision of the Saeima proposed by the Commission and to continue with the discussions in the committees of business and respectful as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U39	The time allowed for the debate is 15 minutes. Mr. Kronberg, are you going to have enough time to break? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Kronberg: “I’ll have enough time, I think, yes.” ) Name to Member Edgars Kronbergs.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U40	Hello, Madam President. Colleagues! In Europe, euthanasia is only legal in Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Spain, partly legal in Germany and Switzerland. Most leading countries in the world with excellent science and excellent parliaments have not solved this matter. In Latvia, with almost two million... Science and Parliament are at the level they are. Please accept that Latvia has no capacity as the fifth European country to establish an appropriate legal and practical framework for euthanasia. Maybe we improve our health system, order vaccines and vaccinate people, and we address issues that we can solve, and not come to a case for which we are neither scientific nor practically prepared in Latvia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U41	Mr. Valains, would you have been enough until 10.30 a.m., until the break? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “Yes, I will do it.” ) Thank you. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U42	Highly respected Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I, too, listen to this debate... Of course, there are many different arguments, but I tend to support the decision taken by the Commission and I will vote in favour and explain why. In my opinion, the supporters of the idea, who want the process of euthanasia to be legalized in Latvia, as well as politicians who talk about it... In a way, it is a kind of capitulation for a problem that everyone pretends to see - that is, health care, palliative care and the fact that it should be strengthened there - should work to make this care chapter work in this respect... that people should not suffer such suffering, that they should be kept to a minimum, so that they can continue to work there. If we come to the conclusion today that we are moving in the direction to support euthanasia in Latvia, that is unacceptable to me. I do not know what criteria other colleagues will vote on - professionally, no matter what - I will be voting on ethically in this case. And for me that... I really cannot accept that. I'm ready to do everything possible for people... I mean, everyone, many, including me... We have seen the sufferings of loved ones and have done our utmost to make this battle as easy as possible for the elderly or for any sick person to survive the pain in the best way possible. It's not easy. It is not easy, but it needs to be worked on. I am ready to work, do everything possible, support initiatives to make this fight easier, but I am strongly opposed to choosing a path that would simply alleviate it and wipe out the problem... I think it's all right here, right? support euthanasia - a person has problems, let him decide his own destiny, thus, in some way, perhaps the easiest but, in my opinion, absolutely unacceptable path. Politicians would also be called on to think more, to take care precisely of strengthening the palliative care and to look for tools, ways we can increase it, support it, rather than go the easiest way right now, no matter what we want. Not for nothing, not for nothing! - it is not so widespread throughout the European Union that it is available everywhere; it all has its own arguments. At the moment, I think we are absolutely not ready for this. For us, the preferential care system is not the most ideal, especially now there are these cases that we are hearing (at least I have been faced with such cases) as, in fact, terrible at this time, in the days of the community, it is that relatives do not come to these people. The situation in which you have to contact through a doctor, that's... I think this is terrible, but I do not even believe that it would be ethical for a person to decide at all on the future fate of another person. I think this is wrong, and we, as Members, should do everything we can to ensure that people can continue to live their lives in dignity for the rest of their lives. I call on you to support the decision taken by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U43	Mr. Neighbours, will you have five minutes to debate? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Kaimiņš: “Yes, I will do it.” ) Name of Member Artus Nemiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U44	Hello, dear colleagues! Welcome, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. This question to begin the day with the discussion of euthanasia - ethically, unethically... I would like to remove it from this conversation at all, because several speakers have spoken about palliative care, which in practice is not available in Latvia. Imagine the next... case out of life. Thus, a person (a young person) discovers a tumour in the brain. The whole family is shocked, there is a great disaster, and he has to stand in a line of comforting care. He's entering the line. It is good that all the people around him were, in principle, doctors, and during this line he was at home, and family members helped him as much as they could, because they were doctors... While his line came. She came a year later, and he was already in the sun. He died. Colleagues, we are talking about euthanasia, which now, I think, in the case of Latvia, is at least seven and eight steps forward, which we want to jump over now... That is not right. First of all, until there is a person worthy of health care in Latvia, diagnostics in Latvia, we cannot talk about any euthanasia at all. I think very many people who have signed this petition or request from ManaBalss.lv... I've always been for the fact that if 10 thousand signatures have been collected, then it has to give... forward for discussion. These people, if they come to one of the social care centres, let's see if they are in this situation, or when they have to start... when there is a palliative care to start working with them, then they may look around - on those ceilings, on those walls, on those technologies, on those perhaps unmotivated employees working on the basis of enthusiasm in Latvia - and maybe really choose, yes, euthanasia, because... it is below every criticism. In this case, this function has to be arranged by the State, and the Ministry of Health has to take over at least 70 per cent of the functions under the responsibility of the Ministry of Welfare, including social care centres. Social care centres in Latvia perform a function of palliative care and death. These centres do this. If it wasn't all this chaos... Gogelmagel for years, then maybe it wouldn't be... this whole communicative measure, the non-subordinated cases and all that has happened in these social care centres as well. But the beginning is that we want to be like Switzerland, we want to be like the Netherlands, like Belgium, like Germany, like the four states of the United States, but we want to miss huge levels of development. It's like babies try to put after birth, after five months in the first class... Let him go and learn on September 1st! Well, it sounds just as funny. So I think there will be more such signing of ManaBalss.lv, as it was with the formulation of family issues. It was if I didn't lie, at least three times. But here, as Mrs Čakša said, this is not a call for help, this is a shout for help. Call for help in terms of palliative care, in terms of health diagnosis. This is a shout. We are really in a very poor way... this area has not been seen as such at all. The Ministry of Welfare does not have to do this; it should not have such functions. There must be a reorganisation with the Ministry of Health and also with staff involved in this whole process - sisters and so on. I have spoken to reanimatologists, anesthesiologists on this issue, and they all say, as one without knowing each other, 'yes' to euthanasia - that is not the answer. The answer is quality, humane health care and diagnosis. Only when it happens will we be able to talk about some sort of further... As long as this has not been done, we are jumping beyond the stages of development, but that is simply not the case. And so even a discussion... it must be clear. I can't support it, and I would also like to remove it here... All the people who moralized for... And it's right to do it because people... may come up with a problem from different sides, and this must be done, but in principle, their religious can be removed, because diagnosis and the quality of medical services - they should be primary. So, honourable signatories, write this again to ManaBalss.lv so that it is again in the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications, because this will be rejected in this vote - I have presumed it. Then let this discussion develop again in the Commission for Mandate, Ethics and Application...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U45	Thank you, Mr. Neighbours. We have a break.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U46	Thank you. Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U47	During the break it is planned to place flowers at the Freedom Monument. Colleagues, we will continue the debate after a break. Please note that the break is scheduled by 11.15 a.m. There's also a record of Members. Thank you. So the break is until 11.15 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U48	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! We keep sitting after the break. We continue with the ongoing debate on the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 505 Latvian citizens “For good death - legalization of euthanasia””. Name to Member Juris Pucem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U49	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Highly respected Members! High honourable Members! The issue to be discussed is one where it is very easy to be astray and quite difficult to be inclusive. The question raises emotions, many of these emotions feel very personal. It is related to their personal experience or to the departure of a loved one. I do believe that colleagues who, today, and also in the Commission, have argued that this collective submission is to be rejected and cannot be seen further, say this with real conviction and it expresses its concern for the people. For my part, I will not be able to support today the draft decision of the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application. Colleagues Golubeva, Skride, Judine, Dolgopolovs, Zarins have already to a large extent mentioned those arguments which also convince me that the Commission's position to reject this collective application is wrong. I would like to stress my complete conviction that the issue of the choice of an ill person to end life is a matter of primary concern as a person's right to life. I call, colleagues, on the Saeima to respect this individual right. I also call for humanity. Many people have been very personally affected by the problem. The decision of the Saeima not to even discuss this issue, not to seek solutions will be a very harsh message for these people. We can go long and wide-- and today, several colleagues have already said in the debate that they recognise the problem and that we need solutions of a different nature, but how much do we have collective submissions that the Saeima has rejected, but we have continued to work with them in the Saeima? I don't remember that. In this situation, I think it is right to decide that we still support the collective application, move it forward to the Commission, move it forward to further analysis to find a solution that is both human and inclusive on this very difficult issue. I call for a vote against the draft decision being drawn up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U50	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U51	I would like a little rejoinder to Juris Pouce's words about human rights, human rights for life. I think that Juris Pūce has not properly understood the meaning of this right, a person has the right to life - and that is a fundamental right - instead of the right to choose whether to live or not. Human rights are not the right to death. That's proof... Next... Next... legal documents, including criminal law. So, in the case of human death, for example, in the case of suicide, like euthanasia, criminal proceedings are initiated to examine the matter, because no one is allowed to take his life away. Nobody. Neither doctors nor yourself. Not legally or ethically. It is a crime and a sin. Thus, both legal and moral norms speak against it. Repeating the main idea, no one - absolutely nobody! - are unable to assess what pain is. Pain is a subjective concept. The pain is not measurable in any mathematical, medical or other parameters, and it is therefore unjustified to take away life on the basis of such a subjective concept. And more. It's over. Here, some colleagues said that, at least, if a person is sleeping on a bed, he has the right to give up his life. It is quite strange in a situation where the same people say that people do not have the right, for example, to tear down a monument... then there are not only fears, but there are also all kinds of ethical, legal and all kinds of arguments. And it's a double. Therefore, in this particular case, I call once again on all 10 505 Latvian citizens who have signed up to think about both legal and moral issues, because life is a miracle. Life comes from a miracle. And life also ends miraculously. One earlier, one later. That way is different for everyone, and each way must go as it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U52	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein. Please! ( Pause) Mr. Kirstein, we can't hear you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U53	You hear me?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U54	Yeah, now.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U55	Excuse me. Dear President, honourable Members. I regret to say that I will talk more about the procedure, and we cannot support these applicants' proposal today, and unfortunately we must support the Commission's decision. Why? Most of the... I personally have no idea what these proposals are about. Eitanasia can take different forms. There may be a problem with suicide. Whether it involves empathizing in some way, or it means leaving a natural person, that he simply refuses to treat. Let me give you one example. We all know that one great senator in the United States, including a Vietnamese warman who found a tumor in his head, he fought very heroically and worked until the last opportunity in the ancient, he was treated for several years, and when he saw that this struggle had to be lost, he gave up chemotherapy, gave up all kinds of medicines and chose to stay at home, and used only painkillers. What do we mean by that? This proposal is something like, for example, are you ready to fight for peace or something else, as was the case in Soviet times? Everyone, of course! Who then is not ready to fight for peace! And are you ready, then, also to fight and acknowledge the rights of every nation with weapons in your hands, say, to fight against oppressors? Well, this is a very vague, very incomplete proposal. Even if we accept it, and here I fully agree with Mrs Golubeva, yes, a person has to make a choice, but unfortunately, there are also very different people's options in which situation he is given this opportunity: whether he is completely decisive, whether he is partially decisive, or whether we delegate this right, let us say, to close relatives. And then again to some relatives - father, mother, children, wife. But if a person doesn't have any relatives, or if it was a nurse, let's say a doctor, whether he would do it, or something else... So these issues are not clear to everyone. I also fully agree that, not to mention these moral aspects, on philosophical issues, we are simply unable to resolve technical issues. Then there is a very important question as to whether there is a total exclusion of cases of abuse. If someone tells me that this proposal seems to rule out all sorts of cases of abuse, let us say, then a person is not perfect. Then we wouldn't have any murders and all the ordered harvestings and so on... what is happening in society. That is why I think we need to postpone this for now, but I agree that there is a solution. Obviously, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Welfare, perhaps even with philosophers, and with the help of the helpless care specialists, need to develop a law in which a person can say, or express, his will. Is it again a legal question, or he says it in advance in writing, that he refuses all kinds of treatment options, that he does not want to take medication, that he may, let's say, be prepared to get rid of only pain in some way... There is a whole line of ethical and moral questions. As long as we have not prepared such a draft law, I think we cannot support the applicants. In this case, we must support the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U56	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U57	Dear colleagues, I feel that I too, however, have a duty to explain my position and my vote on this very difficult issue. That is what I ask myself, or what I would do in a situation where I would be intolerant to pain at some point in my life, to consider the decision to end my own life, or in a situation where someone very close to me, a family member, does not give God, would be in a situation where I, as a loved one, will be asked to end his life... I ask myself, ‘ How would I do that? ’ My position, colleagues, is that it was not my decision to come into this world. That life was not my decision, and it should not be my decision to stop it. I agree that... or those who say yes, life is the way, and every man must go to the end, no matter what the end is. At the same time, what I say when I am healthy is one thing, of course. What I would do in a situation where either I or my loved one... that I would get into a situation like this... I completely allow the idea that I will be able to say so, I will not be so sure of my strength. I therefore believe it would be right for me to take this opportunity even to take away the opportunity to make a decision at a time of weakness either to end my own life in this way or to put an end to the life of my closest person. You can say it's cowardly, but that's my view. I think it is wrong to give up hope and to end what maybe... not even perhaps, but is the greatest gift for you and your loved ones, no matter how much pain it may be, no matter how hopeless it may be. At the same time, while watching the debate and thinking, so to speak, I could not fail to notice that some colleagues, by nature, are not saying whether they are 'for' or 'no' to this issue, but are trying, as I see, to choose an easy way out of this situation: we are not 'for', we are not 'no', we are in favour of continuing the matter with the working groups to discuss it until death and so on. Decide on your own, colleagues, how much you think... You believe in the... I think you know inside, if you really can do for people who call for help... where its pain is located... whether or not to offer their loved ones, create a real solution, or it is simply the next method of discussing the matter until death, so to say that we do not want to wipe it under the guise, and exactly do the same thing. That's where some said... to form a working group on... Here, some have said that, unfortunately, we do not yet have the level of preferential care at Western European level. That's absolutely right! But, colleagues, ask yourself: when is this the level of our palliative care... and will the level of health care in general be at Western European level? Let's... Well, let's take the Swedish level. Here many like to say that we're trying to... We will soon be like the Nordic countries and so. Clearly, how much we can afford to spend on all health care depends... like you or not, but it depends on something like our gross domestic product, how much we earn, how much we produce. And in terms of income, we are leaving Sweden three times behind. Three times! With the pace of development that we have the last... over the last 13 years - and the fact that you, especially the members of the coalition... It is quite obvious that you are unable to go beyond this pace of development if it can be called pace at all, maybe it would not be right to call it speed as such - that we are at their Swedish level (it is simply arithmetic)... we will only reach the Swedish level some hundred years later, one hundred... Well, that's exactly 114... 113. What, then, are you directly setting up those working groups? Or to make it now... Today... solve, so to say... how you like to say find funding. As if money is something that comes from the fact that you are looking for it, not when you are earning it, by taking those resources from another issue, which will soon be the subject of the next collective application. And then you'll all try to find the money again, taking it away from someone else... other issues and so on. This can work, colleagues, of course, absolutely endlessly. But the big question that needs to be asked is how we can achieve Sweden's level and therefore be capable not only of empty speaking, but also of actually being able to provide people at the same level of Swedish in terms of preferential care, not after 115 years, as it now looks like as it is, but much faster. I think this is the right issue in this area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U58	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U59	Yes, my fellow Members, while listening to this debate, I would, however, call for things not to be confused. Today, we are not voting for or against euthanasia, but what we are going on with this popular initiative. As the Chair of the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications rightly pointed out, they should not be a political debate, but a comprehensive expert debate. The paradox of this situation is that it is precisely because of the decision of the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application (which proposes to reject the initiative) that we have a political debate today. In my opinion, it would be best for the mandate, ethics and application to be prepared for a decision by the Commission that this initiative should be directed further towards the commission responsible, which we then commission to form this comprehensive debate of competent experts. This has not been done. We therefore have today political adjudication, a great deal of manipulation, judgments that are very theoretical and far from the reality with which they have not encountered at all. So it is very convenient to mind, play and even manipulate the facts. I will not list these manipulations because they were talked about. The fact that we will vote today in favour of this Commission decision on Mandates, Ethics and Applications, in particular, against this Commission decision on Mandates, Ethics and Applications, which proposes not to work further with this initiative, does not mean that we support euthanasia by doing so, but supports this proposal in the application. I personally do not support the possibility that someone else in my place is entitled to decide without my consent whether to live or die. But I believe (and as a person who has had to face all of this) that it would be very important to have such a competent debate in society, to put us here as legislator and to make a solution, because it really is... I do not wish anyone to face this situation. And I know clearly from my experience that if I were in this situation, I don't want to bring suffering to others... and knowing that the end is obvious and inevitable, then perhaps also to make your own easier. On the other hand, I would call on those who are very wise today to reject the further debate... and those who like to talk wisely about the way to the end. Colleagues, we have a long sitting today. Now you sit down and don’t move all the time. Sit still! Also when you want to go to the bathroom, even when you want to eat or drink, continue sitting still all day long, and you will begin to appear in such a small, small, far-reaching sense that you are talking about walking to the end of the road. If you cannot even do that today, then what you are going to do now, your vote against the possibility of further debate on this difficult situation is most hypocritical and is taken away from reality. If you are not able to help people live, at least give them the chance to die. Thank you. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U60	The name to the Member, Andrejs Judin, for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U61	Thank you to colleagues for the long and interesting debate. I learned a lot about your experience, your opinion, attitude. But I would also like to remind you that the question is not whether there will be euthanasia tomorrow or not. Well, there is no document to open the first euthanasia office in Latvia. Our question is different. We received a proposal and, as Members, we have a duty to work on it. But I hear from several colleagues that, no, we don't want to work because everyone has their own idea of what euthanasia is, whether it's good or bad. I think that we must fulfil our duty. There is Parliament here, where you can debate, where you can discuss the matter. The fact that we are probably debating the second hour shows that opinions are very different. But here are the Members. If there were still experts involved, I think we would all find out a lot, much more. Parliament is the platform, the level at which we can hold a qualitative debate, not because 13. The family will be able to accept a law, but because 13. The Saeima could prepare documents that we could then hand over to 14. The Saeima, and perhaps it could finish the work. Colleagues, I have the feeling that we do not even fully understand what we are talking about, because one has one fantasy, the other has another fantasy, and then people are calling for this fantasy not to be realised. I can't imagine, for example, that euthanasia could be like that -- there are ads, let's say, in a newspaper or on television, that please: quickly and cheaply at the doctor and you can come and get it. It's not like that. Tickets to euthanasia will not be an opportunity to buy as an entertainment. And in general, I believe that euthanasia is an exceptional case. If there is, then as an exception, but not a story. I heard the accusation - why not reveal my attitude. In my opinion, there may be situations where euthanasia may be tolerated, but people - experts, psychologists - must also work there and look at the situation. And, as I said on the first occasion, I have the idea that if someone applies for euthanasia, maybe that is exactly when he receives advice... maybe exactly then, when talking to specialists, he will change his mind. Then there is hope that a person will not, simply alone, sit at the computer and see no light in the tunnel, take the pills and die - and we won't even know why - but maybe one, two or ten lives we can save. I believe that we must fulfil our obligation, we must work. And right... I do not remember who, but rightly said that if the Saeima rejects the initiative, no one then works on it, but this time the question has been tabled, and we must not make a decision - whether or not for euthanasia - but simply organise a debate on the matter. Once again, I call for support not to be given to the draft decision of the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application... create a working group and work on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U62	Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U63	Dear Chair of the sitting, dear colleagues. First of all, I would like to say that I would be very pleased if we had such a debate about economic development in the country, about how we will get out of this crisis so that people do not get into poverty, many do not have depression, many do suicides, do not lose their loved ones, family life. But if we are talking about this collective application, I would like to remind you that such a debate is possible in the government, such a debate is possible already for professionals in the sector, such a debate can also be held with representatives of Christian denominations. As for representatives of Christian denominations, I would like to remind you that the responsible parliamentary commission included representatives of four Christian denominations: the Roman Catholic Church, the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church, the Latvian Baptist Society and the Latvian Orthodox Church. And all representatives of these churches clearly and unequivocally did not support the initiative on legalization of euthanasia. Colleagues! It is possible for us to debate very much what is really vital at the moment for the government, where these political decisions are really needed now and now, but as regards the future direction of this collective application, 'For the sake of death - the legalisation of euthanasia' in Parliament, I call for support for the Commission's position and for a vote in favour of 'no' rejection in line with the Commission's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U64	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U65	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Either way, but everyone will have to vote, every Member, and it is therefore necessary to give an opinion on why they will vote like this or otherwise. I'm against euthanasia, too. And I do not see any sense at this point in the future. I'll see why. This issue of euthanasia can be looked at from various angles. Many teach it... In fact, liberal wing politicians more present it as an end to human suffering. It's a good job... It will be a good job. But you can look at it from a different point of view. I see it differently. A man is actually killed, or he demands it, asks or otherwise, but prepares respectively either preparations or... administer, say, medications and so on, actually kills that person... on request or otherwise. So that's what... We might... if this collective application can be described differently from “Good death - legalization of euthanasia” but as the essence of the legalization of euthanasia. Here, in fact, everyone has an opinion, and this opinion comes not only from personal experience, but also from lifestyles and perceptions of life. First of all, there is the perception of Christian life and the perception of the lives of unbelieving people, who believe that death is a point and no more. So no matter how you can die, it's all. It's over. Christians have different perceptions, but they are even more expressive of the position and conservatives of liberal opinion, but they are only surprised that many of the members of SAID... in fact, many members support, and here is this liberal view, let us say, further directing this issue. I won't talk long, I'll just tell you why I'm against it and I don't need to see it either. We're... society is not mature... And don't forget that behind us there are voters and also in a regional section, where, for example, a large part of Latgale, I believe most, are Christians, believers - they don't support this. Therefore, please, Members, no matter which political groups and elected from the regions, think about your constituents' views as well, not as a separate... Some, let's say, the views of the collectors of these signatures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U66	The name to Member Boris Cilevič. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Indeed, the issue is extremely complex, and I do not have such a clear position on this, but some of the topics that have been raised in this debate are absolutely unacceptable to me. For example, reference is made to religious beliefs. I respect every person's conviction, but forgive me if I don't belong to these denominations, why do I have a kind of binding view of these denominations? Do we still have a church separate from the country? And yet life belongs first and foremost to me, and I have to decide when and how to stop it. And to impose on me some of the criteria that were developed by the conventions that I do not belong to - I am sorry, in my view, this is unacceptable in a democratic society. In fact, I would just like to remind you that euthanasia is not mandatory, it is a choice for every person. For those who do not accept it because of their religious or ethical beliefs, it will never be imposed. It is about people who want it. And really... I will not repeat what Mr. Zarin and someone else said... It is hard for us to imagine the suffering of a person in such a terminal stage. Unfortunately, I had situations in my life when I met these people, and I really... Now I cannot clearly imagine what I would like to see in such a situation right now. Therefore, let us not try to impose on all certain ethical criteria on individual groups. Everyone is the owner of his life, and that is the essence of it, the essence of human rights and the essence of today's democratic society. And to ban the debate, to prevent the debate on such a serious issue - well, in my view, it is simply not a state-wise thing, because if we really want to be a society that respects everyone, then everyone's opinion must also be heard. I do not know how I would vote for the authorisation of euthanasia, but I will certainly vote against the ban on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U68	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U69	Dear colleagues, If this imposition of ethical norms, as Mr Cilevič said, had not taken place all these years, all these centuries, then, dear colleagues, many of you - many of you! - He wouldn't even sit here. As a famous American politician said: “Abortion loves talking to those who are already born.” But that's not what we're talking about right now. Now the story is about the end of life, and Mr. Cilevičs declared that it is his personal life and that it is his personal choice, forgetting that it was not his personal choice to be born - just like all of us. If we talk about the mission with which we each come in this world, it is quite clear that we come with great respect for all life and human life. The life of man, the protection of human life, is the principal task of every man. We have a duty to be present to every person who has fallen, who may... Perhaps there is a situation in which he cannot breathe normally. We have to save human life, each one! Even in driving courses, you need to take first-aid courses. You can't get a driving licence if you haven't gone. We're not even talking about doctors whose principal task is always - every centimetre, every millimetre - to fight for human life. If the doctor is given this direction - you know, you can fight, but you can also think when there is a moment when, in Mrs Golubeva's opinion, this person's life is no longer normal, it is no longer necessary, so... Well, for a man, this life just won't be good enough, as Mr. Zarins said, if a man... if he has to sit down for a whole day without movement - then take off with this man, take off with this life - it is no longer valid! Who decides for you, yes, exactly for you? Because those who are currently talking about an initiative that it is just an active euthanasia - they have really not read this initiative. Mrs Golubeva has not read. Maybe she needs to open up again and look at MyaBalss.lv - which is written there. There is, among other things, a statement about how this initiative should be decided, whether a person can't take that decision himself, which then makes a decision - a doctor or a loved one - in his place. And here we come back to the story... in court proceedings, in broken human lives where fighting... on the one hand, one loved one fights for the life of a loved one; on the other, another wants to turn him off the system. That is what I told you first, but you are not reading this initiative. You already only tell some of your experience stories where... Of course, everyone in life has some tragic story about a loved one who has gone very hard on his way. But these emotional arguments are not definitely appropriate in this debate, because what has also been pointed out by many colleagues who do not currently support euthanasia... They also pointed out that there are moments of weakness in which a person would really like to go, and then he realizes at the next moment that he did wrong thinking. And who will decide? Who will help him to make this decision? Are you sure that we need such a discussion right now? We, quite rightly, need a discussion on a much better way of helping those people who are currently suffering daily, but we cannot discuss the fact that we will help them to put an end to this life. We need to help people not first of all in the difficult situation that you were talking about (cancer patients). We have a group to support patients on the subject, and there are many Members in this group. And we have to work to make sure that our patients on the subject have access to early diagnosis and all possible medicines so that they do not have to collect donations... thousands... so that they can be treated in Germany. We need to talk about this, not how to kill these people gently, so that they no longer harm anyone's life. You can't do that! We must help people not to get involved in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U70	The name of Member Regina Lochmele. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U71	Hello, colleagues! We have a vote in front of us, which will indeed be a vote in accordance with our conscience. Let me say straight away that I will vote against the Commission's decision and for this debate to continue despite the pandemic, the economic crisis and so on. In my opinion, we are addressing a very serious existential problem here. And this debate has also highlighted, in my opinion, a very important contradiction between Members of Parliament. Everyone does not know why they are appealing to the values of faith, to the commandments, and they do not know why we forget that, without the values of faith, there are also European values, where man, his life and his rights are at the forefront. As for the commandments, I will ask you not to forget that there is between the commandment “You will not kill”... next to it there stands the commandment “You will not steal”. And I would very much like those who vote today in support of the commandment “You won’t kill”, in all their actions, to be consistent and not to support those who steal... including the poor monument in Jēkabpils, which has been stolen. This is also not to be supported in accordance with the values of faith. But when it comes to 'You will not kill', it is absolutely also in line with European values, because there is no death penalty in the European Union. We all condemn those countries where the death penalty still exists. Because you will not be able to kill in accordance with European values either. You will not have to kill, and without the euthanasia discussion before us, I expect it, there is also a debate, whether we can look at it freely and not see what is happening every day in veterinary clinics where animal, domestic, euthanasia takes place. Because it's also a moral question, whether or not you're going to have to kill. I fully agree with Mrs Stepanenko's statement that we must take care that effective painkillers are available, that medicines are available that help people not to get into a situation where they have to think about euthanasia. This is primary, but I am in favour of this debate, looking at how slowly these processes are going. I am in favour of our doctors not having to stand in front of the choice, whether or not to be legal but, nevertheless, those who are taking part in the killing. Because if we allow euthanasia, we will be forced to look at the procedure that has to be followed. I am not ready to answer the question myself whether I am in favour or against, because those people who just hurt their hearts about other people... This cannot by any means be an easy matter, but it is absolutely clear that this debate must take place, because it is this debate that has hit the pain hub that, when voting on the majority of the issue, reveals in our Saeima when we try to divide people into liberals and candies, believers and disbelievers. In my opinion, the main problem here is whether we are in favour of the modern values that underpin the European Union, whose country is Latvia, or whether we are simply seeing every person as a person with freedom and with our rights. And yet, all those who think of themselves in this parliament... not think, but are also believers, I will ask you to reread all these 10 commandments, especially, "You will not steal." And I very much hope that when you vote on other issues, you will be the followers of this commandment. Today, I am asking people not to steal the right to speak, not to steal the right of public opinion and to do their job. It is our duty to judge and talk about what more than 10,000 people have voted on. I will vote against the Commission's decision and in favour of continuing the discussion so that we can fulfil our duties and find the best solution to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U72	Name to Member Igor Pimenov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U73	Hello! I call all those who speak now about the highest value of human life to remember that you, not preach the higher truth, but ask a man who suffers intolerant pain, this intolerant pain to continue to suffer. You don't give up on yourself, you give up on someone else. I am the 33rd speaker in this debate, and I believe that we must not stop this discussion, which is why we must vote against the draft decision proposed by the Commission, so that the debate that has been launched continues in the Saeima, in the government and in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U74	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U75	Dear colleagues, once again. Apparently there are manipulations, many things are trying to be presented differently - as they are not. First. For this moment no person in Latvia is prohibited from choosing - accepting preparations... with or without other medicines. As Kirstein said, if you want to die faster, stop the medication... as the American Senator did, and point. There is no forced sequence at present. You want to introduce this end to forced life. I do not agree with this. Go on. Dear Regina Ločmel, you spoke about European values. There are other values. ‘ European values,” you said, but do you know whether you remember or have read that it was the European Union that was based on and built up on Christian values, German Christian democracy - Adenauer, a whole series of... and so on, but over time these values were forgotten. Now there are quite different values, which are also unacceptable to a large part of Latvia's population. Go on. ‘ Development/About!’ , you surprised me with your unequivocal position about the need for euthanasia, but you now have health issues at your disposal, Minister. What does that mean - this move on your part? Don't you believe that the Communion pandemic will end... and as a result of a Comma pandemic, and also as a result of vaccination, will death occur, where will people themselves require them to be killed? You're running in the opposite direction. What does that mean? This is not the time for us to talk and to do things like this at all, while many issues are more important in the country at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U76	The name of Member Regina Lochmele for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U77	Thank you. Dear Andris Kazinovskis! Firstly, in my address to the Saeima, I said that European values are based on Christian values, and criticising me that I do not understand this is not correct. That's the first. Second. I call on you to read the values of the European Union and ask you to find just one value there that does not match Christian values. And thirdly. I, for my part, find very many values in Christian values, especially in the Old Testament, which I cannot strictly accept, you forgive, because these values do not even match the values of the New Testament, especially with the commandment “You will not kill”. If we go this way, there is still a question that will be won in this debate. I would like to remind you that, at the moment, we are talking about a very sensitive issue which it is really wrong to discuss aggressively. It is particularly wrong to point out at this point that those who vote against the Commission's decision are in favour of euthanasia. That is not the case. A number of people, namely my fellow Members, will vote against the Commission's decision with one aim: to support the public opinion and the opinion of these 10 000 people that we need to discuss this in the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U78	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U79	Thank you. Colleagues! You know, there's probably only one winner in our discussion. This winner is death. Accordingly, when you leave, let us say so, the winning view of the discussion... I listened very carefully to what Mrs Kursīte-Pakule said, what Mr Kazinovsky said and what Mr Stepanenko said. And in response to the arguments and positions of liberal policy-makers, I tend to support and support the Commission's decision, I will vote in favour of rejecting this initiative, and I follow the argument that death as winners must be among professionals, among medical practitioners, among confederations and among medical experts. Therefore, I believe that building political capital at the expense of death is unethical. For the whole discussion, I think it is about raising capital on a very painful and very sensitive issue... and I believe that the place of discussion is among the professional circles - medical, religious and expert, not members of the Saeima, where cheap political capital was created on a very difficult subject... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U80	I closed the debate. Please, Mr Durish, do you want to add something else on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U81	No, honourable colleagues, I have nothing to add to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U82	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application “For good death - legalization of euthanasia” of 10 505 Latvian citizens”! Please, let's vote! For - 49, against - 38, refraining - 2. The draft decision was adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On 10 078 collective application of Latvian citizens “Let the right turn to the red light if it does not interfere with further progress of other drivers and pedestrians””. On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications - the name of Member Vital Orlov. Please! Do Members object to this at today's sitting? There is no objection. Name to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U83	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Hello, dear colleagues! Given the number of drivers in the Saeima, I am now afraid to read this report after the previous debate. Dear colleagues, On 23 February 2021 the Saeima received a collective application from 10 078 Latvian citizens entitled “Let the right turn to the red light if it does not interfere with other leaders and pedestrians”. On 10 March of this year, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application of the Saeima considered an application to introduce a solution of the traffic organisation in Latvia, which would allow to make a good turn also at the red signal prohibiting the traffic lights, if it does not interfere with other drivers and pedestrians. Representatives of the Ministry of Transport, the Road Safety Directorate and the Riga City Council invited and present during the meeting of the Commission were opposed to the proposals made in the initiative, on the basis of arguments about the negative impact of the proposed traffic organisation solution on traffic safety, negative experience of Lithuania, the absence of an internationally recognised road sign, as well as the possibility to use the existing solution - installation of a traffic lights section at crossings where it is permitted. After hearing the arguments put forward by the invited parties, the members of the commission shared their views, but the majority still felt that the discussion should be continued so that the arguments could be heard more widely. The Commission, voting in favour, three against and one abstention, decided to refer this initiative of Latvian citizens to the parliamentary Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission for further evaluation. Thus, on the basis of the fourth and fifth paragraphs of Section 131.5 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, the Commission prepared a draft decision “On 10 078 collective application of Latvian citizens “Let the right turn to the red light if it does not interfere with further progress of other managers and pedestrians””. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U84	Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On 10 078 collective application of Latvian citizens “Let the right turn to the red light if it does not interfere with further progress of other managers and pedestrians”! Please, let's vote! For - 83, for - 2 and for - 1. The Commission's draft decision is supported. On the agenda, under the heading ‘Conclusion of the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust’. The draft decision on the approval of the representative of the Saeima to the Council of the Municipal Equalisation Fund. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, the name of the Member Martin Stein. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U85	Good morning, dear Member of the Speaker of the Saeima. Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear sitting viewers and listeners! At the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission of the Saeima, at the request of the Minister of Finance, we have decided to represent the Saeima in the Board of the Municipal Equalisation Fund. It is the board that supervises the activities of the Municipal Financial Equalisation Fund. The Commission has prepared draft Decision No. 610/Lm13 and I reported that with seven votes in favour, three votes against and no one decided to support and recommend that the Saeima be approved by Members Janina Jalinska as the representative of the Saeima in the Board of the Municipal Equalisation Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U86	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the approval of the representative of the Saeima in the Council of the Municipal Equalisation Fund! Please, let's vote! On - 74, against - 15, abstaining - not. The Commission's draft decision is supported. Section "Handling Members' requests" Requests received by Members. Members Viktors Valainis, Uldis Augulis, Janīna Jalinska, Jānis Dūklavs, Māris Kučinskis, Edgars Tavars, Jānis Vucāns, Gundars Dauge, Armands Krauze and Raimonds Bergmanis have submitted a request to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On the inability of the Ministry of Health to organise and implement vaccination process against Covid-19”. The name of Member Viktor Valainis - motivation. Please! ( Pause) Please, Mr. Valaiņš!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U87	Thank you, honourable Head of the sitting. Colleagues, I think it is clear to everyone that, at the moment, in order for us to successfully and as quickly as possible to return to normal living conditions, it is important for us to have this normal daily process of vaccination at our disposal - for the vaccination process to take place. And it is particularly important that this happens on a continuous basis. And in the circumstances where we are now vaccinating precisely these risk groups... And for me, looking at the longer term, of course, there's a lot to talk about here about how this process has been managed... But at a time when the Ministry of Health has made one mistake after another, when these mistakes have also been politically made... Is there really not a time when serious risk management should be carried out? In this case, on which we wrote this request - about these vaccine logistics processes. How can it be that a contract is being concluded with an undertaking which is not at all capable of carrying out this service? How has our Ministry of Health made such an excellent decision and concluded an agreement with a company that is not in a position to do so? And not at all, the question has not been raised as to why those companies that can fulfil it refuse to participate in such procurement... What, then, were the reasons why? Colleagues, in these circumstances, all this leads to the fact that the Ministry of Health is simply unable to predict the risks. We are now at a distance from large vaccination centres and, of course, there are no vaccines. When will they be? Let us hope that it will be faster, but there's also the question - is all risk management really... Is everything possible done by the Ministry of Health? Every movement shows at strategic moments that this has not been done, and, colleagues, this request is for Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš about the analysis, the ability to understand whether the Ministry of Health can continue to manage this process in general. And every action shows that there are some doubts, at least from our side. I call on colleagues right from this point of view to address this request... and receive answers on the substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U88	The request shall be addressed to the Commission. In the section "Opinion of the Commission for Petitions" we can see Members Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Krišāna, Ivana Ribakova, Vladimira Nikonova, Regina Ločmele, Ivana Klementyeva, Borisa Cileviča, Jānis Tutina, Arthur Rubika, Igora Pimenova's request to the Minister for Health Daniels Pavilātas "On the avoidance of specific information by the Minister for Health in connection with the procurement of Covid-19 vaccines". On behalf of the Commission, Ivars Puga, Member. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U89	Hello, colleagues! Thus, the Panel has examined the request made by the Saeima Member Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Krišāna, Ivana Ribakova, Vladimira Nikonova, Regina Ločmele, Ivana Klementyeva, Borisa Cileviča, Jānis Tutina, Arthur Rubika, Igora Pimenova to the Minister of Health Danielas Pavlātas “On the avoidance of specific information by the Minister for Health in connection with the procurement of Covid-19 vaccines” (No. 50/P13) and, by voting in favour, five against and five abstentions, admitted that the request made by Members should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U90	Let's start a debate. Mr. Zarins, will you have enough... Is that so? You'll have enough time. Please! Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U91	Good afternoon to all who are still following this parliamentary sitting. I think that today, this will be one of the most interesting items on the agenda of this parliamentary sitting - this is a request by the Minister of Health to avoid giving specific information in connection with the purchase of the Covid-19 vaccine. Unfortunately, the facts discovered during the examination of the request make it reasonable to question the results of the examination of the Ministry of Health service, which indicates either a lax investigation of the service or an attempt to conceal the real circumstances of the case and the real responsibilities for the events. So we're talking about the purchase of vaccines, where we didn't know why we refused to buy the necessary vaccines for Latvia. And I will point out to you some concrete facts that demonstrate these concerns mentioned above. The facts are interesting, I invite you to follow and think with you, and to draw your own conclusions. So this request was made to the Minister for Health on 12 February - after the Minister avoided replying to most of the Members' questions about the results of the service test carried out by the Ministry of Health, because the results of the service test were really interesting. I met them, read them carefully, and immediately found many interesting details about which we wanted the Minister to explain, but he avoided doing so. So let's go together. Just follow some of these concrete facts, because unfortunately all the rules of procedure - the Saeima's Rules of Procedure - will not allow me to discuss. It is clear from the report from the service that Latvia received a request for a ‘Bionnettech/Pfizer’ vaccine order on 16 November. The deadline for reply was 18 November. Record these dates, these nuances, - it will be important further. To decide on the purchase of these vaccines, the Ministry of Health convened meetings on 17, 18, 19 November. It is obvious that the most important sittings at which it was decided to purchase the very limited amount of BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine are on 17 and 18 November. In fact, it can be seen that this negative attitude towards Pfizer vaccines was formulated on 17 November, as already on 18 November the National Health Service sent information to the European Commission that Latvia agreed to purchase very limited amounts of this BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine. However, what happened in the so-called Service Test... In the report of the meeting of 17 November there is no reason to reflect at all, there are no specific facts, but there is only a general statement that ‘the purchase of ‘bioNTech/Pfizer’ vaccines is negatively treated.’ It is also strange that the Ministry of Health's so-called service test has not tried to ascertain the views expressed by each individual at this meeting - none of these meetings. And the Ministry of Health avoided to reveal it also on the questions asked by Members, although that information would make it possible to begin to find out what happened then, and how, was decided at these meetings. In particular, if the Ministry of Health states that it is not clear what happened there, what has decided what decisions have been taken, and no one can explain it, then he could ask for concrete what each individual has spoken about, what each individual has decided what his particular attitude has been. And then, by leaving this information, it would be possible to put it together from the contradictions to see where the investigation should be conducted and how we can clarify this truth, because it would be through these contradictions that it would mark. But what this service does... Like a service check? I'm going to... The verification of the service showed that the working group meetings were not recorded and no video and audio recordings were made of these meetings, so it is not possible to clearly identify the views expressed by each member at the meeting. Well, there's a valid question. It is not clear what the verification of the service (the so-called verification of the service) was actually carried out if the hearings were not recorded, the recording of the hearing was not carried out, but the views of the participants were not known. In Russian it's called... is such a good saying - igra v durk, so ‘play fool, let's make a fool’. Then there is the question: which one is trying to make a fool here? Is it a fool to pretend those who have conducted this investigation, or those who have ordered it, or to whom they are trying to feed the results of the service test? We will see this further. Some attention should be paid to the fact that this so-called service investigation... how it tries to create this narrative for who should blame for what happened, in other words, it offers a sinew... is offered by this sinner. Again as intelligent as the previous adjective on fools. Thus, Ainārs Lāzbergs is offered to be recognized as a scapegoat in the testing of the service... As one of the scapegoats. It is the official who sent this order from Latvia to the European Commission. As a result, the testers must have chosen him as a pioneer because it was the most convenient thing to do. Namely, why will Latvia not receive the vaccines due to it? Because it has made the same order. And the guilty one who has sent this order. It's like a logical chain, so Lacberg is guilty. It's like in the Middle Ages - the messenger is punished for having brought bad news. For those who find it incredible that the so-called testers did not know that they were no longer living in the Middle Ages, it is worth thinking about other reasons why such test results were offered to the public, because it is not clear from the results of the test, how could Ainārs Lācbergs, who prepared the order for this vaccine, the Order Form, be it at all, find out from the test results... On the contrary! And now I quote again in the report the statement... The examination of the service showed that Ainārs Lācbergs prepared the Order Form - vaccine order at the meeting of 18 November and 19 November 2020. So where is his fault here, if he does it as he decides? What further interest does this report have? Moreover, the Authority’s report further states that ‘the Commission has not obtained the assurance that a specific decision on the purchase of doses of BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine... has been taken at that meeting’. Thus, on the one hand, it is claimed that this order was made on the basis of decisions taken by the Commission... decisions taken at meetings, on the other hand, have been said to be unknown... We do not know that decisions have been taken or have not been taken. For other ends... the inspection of this service tries to hide all ends of the water. They think they're elegantly nuzzled... or they did not really believe that it was possible to reveal the true circumstances of the case. In fact, it was easy to pull these ends out of the water, that is to say, there's so much in the unknown, in the fog, but there are concrete, clear things. There is a specific order known, it is specifically known who has sent the order. Then there is no problem going on along this chain, asking Lāzberg: “Who made you make it (because he did not have such functions, he is simply a technical performer)... Who gave you, whose official gave you an order to prepare such a solution, such an offer?” And so on, on promises, we'd start drawing out the whole chain out of detail. We'll find out how that whole story has happened. But what is this service report doing? It has not at all ascertained which official Lacberg has made such an application for a vaccine. That's not why this check has not managed to find out at all. Especially strange is the fact that the verification of the service did not find out... and here is an important nuance - that in fact Latvia was informed about the purchase of these vaccines not on 16 November, as we are told, but on 11 November already on 11 November. Then there is the question: how could this service's inspection not be clear, if all this information was at the disposal of the Ministry of Health, there was no question, no operational action was needed to clarify it. It'd be enough from the edge... a person from the edge (not from the Ministry of Health) with minimal knowledge of this procedure, what is the procedure for ordering this vaccine... That's what it's... questions arose to us because we know that after this procedure, the European Commission is giving at least five days. And at least five days were given to both Lithuania and Estonia. Why did we suddenly show up for two days? It is most likely that on 11 November, when Latvia received this notification (as it was received on this same day in Lithuania and Estonia), the responsible officials in the Ministry of Health did nothing at all. And most likely when it took five days and when the European Commission asked: "E, Latvia, do you need its vaccines at all or do not need them? What do you want to do there?” , only then did some movement begin, because otherwise it is not clear what the responsible officials were doing all this time. And why was the first meeting convened on 17 November to decide on the purchase of these vaccines? Now it looks like it's completely selfless and irresponsible at all. And here I draw the General Prosecutor's Office's attention to all these facts, because I hope they will investigate it more competently than the Commission mentioned above. What is interesting here, not least, is that this situation, when the real order of things disappears, creates a sense of déjà vu with the OIK field, where the results of the verification of a service initiated by a minister with regard to decisions taken by the OIC at the Ministry have disappeared. The Ministry was different, but it was notable that the Minister was the same. Well, not for nothing after we started this request and started to discover these discrepancies, the Ministry of Health has announced another test of the service, and it must be understood that this cover will not work. Lazberg is no longer identified as one of the possible perpetrators. However, in my opinion, it is obvious in all this situation that it is hypocritical and deplorable - try to take all responsibility for what has happened only to one of the officials in a situation where vaccination is seen by this government as the only exit strategy from the Covid crisis. This is a situation where the purchase of vaccines has been left without any political supervision, with all responsibility for it being squandered to officials who... it demonstrates the irresponsibility, inability and incompetentness of that power, the inability to act and to take adequate decisions. Latvian society will again have to pay for this irresponsibility of power with its lives. And perhaps it is not just an irresponsible act, it is also possible corruption. That is why I am addressing my colleagues here from the New Conservative Party - you have announced, one of your leaders has just, recently, announced that the New Conservative Party has stood up against any corruption. This vote, which you are voting today... what will happen on this request will show whether you really stand against anyone... and will show clearly whether you stand against any corruption or actually stand against only corruption in which you have not participated. Yeah, I think it's... all the facts that I have listed today demonstrate that it would be justified to support this request, to call here the Saeima's Health Minister to respond to these facts, which are clearly ambiguous and clearly indicate that these actions have not been carried out under the appropriate responsibility and competence and have probably also been manipulated for selfish purposes. Because what we've managed to get... is information that has been lobbying... the development of a chain for the adoption of this Decision. It would be very important for the Minister for Health to give answers to all our questions, because then we can see the right order of things. In turn, if you want to hide it, you want to hide from the whole society, as it has actually happened, then the votes that will vote against will simply confirm that the failure and irresponsibility of power is more important than the promises you made to society. I therefore call for this request to be supported and, above all, appeal to my colleagues from the New Conservative Party, because your votes will be decisive in this request - whether you are covering this area or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U92	Dear colleagues, It's time for a break. The registration of Members' presence is over. We're back after a break at 13.35. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U93	Dear colleagues, The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption came to work on the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on the Management of communicable Diseases” (No. 962/Lp13). The Commission is still working and continues to examine the proposals submitted, thus extending the suspension until 14.15 p.m. So it's a break until 2:15 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U94	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that there has been a meeting of the Saeima Bureau, that a meeting of the Saeima Bureau has taken place, and that the Saeima Bureau has decided to convene the remote emergency sitting on 25 March at 2.30 p.m. on the agenda. Project “On taking Boris Frumina into Latvian citizenship for special merits for Latvia”. Under the heading “Review of Drafts” - Draft Law “Amendments to the Law “On Unemployment Insurance”” (No. 1014/Lp13). Under the heading “Delegation of draft laws to commissions and examination at first reading” - Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” (No. 1019/Lp13). under the heading ‘Handling of draft laws’ - Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media’ (No. 900/Lp13) and draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” (No. 962/Lp13), second reading. Colleagues, it is a draft law that has just been examined by the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption. So let's start at 2.30 p.m. with this agenda. Members will also be informed about this in their text messages. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U95	Dear colleagues, We will continue to examine the agenda for the second remote emergency session on 18 March this year. And so on the agenda - the opinion of the Request Commission. Member Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Krišāna, Ivana Ribakova, Vladimira Nikonova, Regina Ločmele, Ivana Clementyeva, Boris Cileviča, Jānis Tutina, Arthur Rubika, Igora Pimenov’s request to the Minister for Health Daniel Pavilāts “On the avoidance of specific information by the Minister for Health in connection with the procurement of Covid-19 vaccines”. We are continuing the debate. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U96	Dear colleagues, Vaccination of chronically ill patients has started in our country. The Minister of Health Daniels Pavļuts said that on the platform manovaccina.lv and by phone 8989, 23 thousand people of this group applied for vaccination, but in total 166 thousand such persons live in the country. In turn, the vaccination process against Covid-19 has so far been concluded by only one percent of Latvia's population. Currently, the Latvian government is competing with Bulgaria for 1st place in the European Union at a slow pace of vaccination. This means that serious vaccination against Covid-19 in the Republic of Latvia cannot be discussed at all. The Minister promises something energetic every day, but there is no result. There is still chaos in the vaccination process organisation. Thanks also to those who decided at the end of last year that Latvia should renounce the purchase of hundreds of thousands of vaccines, for what is happening in the healthcare sector. It seems that the order in this sector will only occur when the tail floweres. Rough irony, of course. It is clear that, as a result, the whole of society now has to deal with a number of painful aspects. First, a small number of vaccines are given to family doctors, which is not enough for everyone. Secondly, the patient has to register himself on manovaccina.lv or call the single number. The patient can refer to the practice of his family doctor to see if vaccination is being carried out there and sign up directly. In the case of chronically ill patients, family doctors are not obliged to identify and inform all chronically ill people. Doctors simply do not have enough resources for this. This is a big problem, since people often think that doctors will definitely call, as has been the case with seniors. The fact that these people do not know that they have to apply for them shows that the flow of information is very chaotic. And it's very tiring. Another problem was the concern of both patients and family doctors. The first lion of chronic diseases sent to family doctors was very irregular. It literally copied information from abroad, where other types of diseases were more relevant, but did not include several diseases that were relevant in Latvia. It was an absurd situation, for example, when a vaccine was recommended for people with cardiovascular diseases, but only a few of them were listed in brackets, so some family doctors misunderstood the list and refused the vaccine in their patients. It was only after some time that an updated list was placed on the website of the Disease Prevention and Control Centre. During the vaccination process, uncertainty is also caused by the fact that it is not understood which body is the main one. A total of six authorities are responsible for the vaccines. That, I think, is not wise. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the Prosecutor-General has decided to launch a full inspection of the decisions on the purchase of vaccines at the Ministry of Health. The investigation of the prosecutor will assess all circumstances relating to the purchase of vaccines and the situation resulting therefrom. And on this background, most of the decisions of the Committee on Petitions look, to put it mildly, illogically and even strangely. I therefore call on the Saeima to support the request made by Members of the SAIC to the Minister for Health and to evaluate the responsibilities of both officials and politicians of the Ministry of Health. When it comes to human health, then all the excuses seem insignificant. In fact, with the vaccine portfolio, let us say, its loss chain is simply gigantic, both for the country as a whole and for the economy and the economy, which will be frozen for a long time, because people will not be vaccinated... in order to be able to abolish all restrictions. I believe that mistakes affecting the fate of many people have been severely punished... without a long talk. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U97	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U98	On behalf of the Commission, nothing can be added, but I would remind you that the request was rejected by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U99	Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Krišāna, Ivana Ribakova, Vladimira Nikonova, Regina Ločmele, Ivana Klementyeva, Boris Cileviča, Jānis Tutina, Arthur Rubika, Igora Pimenova's request to the Minister for Health Daniels Pavlutas "On the avoidance of the Minister for Health in providing specific information in relation to Covid-19 purchase of vaccines"! Please, let's vote! About - 28, against - 50, abstaining - 1. The request is rejected. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Registration of Civil Status Acts”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U100	Good evening, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Good evening, colleagues! We need to look at “Amendments to the Civil Status Act at third reading”. This draft law provides that the registers of acts of civil status will be included, updated and updated in the Register of Natural Persons instead of in the system of registration of acts of civil status... and provided for other clarifications that we considered at first and second reading. At third reading, however, no proposal was tabled in accordance with Rule 95 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Consequently, the Legal Commission supported this draft law at the third, final, reading and calls on the Saeima to vote on it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U101	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Registration of Civil Status Acts” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 82, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to the Corporate Tax Act”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U102	Welcome again. Good evening! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Corporate Income Tax” (No. 708/Lp13). The original objective was to apply corporate tax relief to the State Museum, a derived public person. Three proposals have been received at the third reading, all of which involve changes to the regulation on the exclusion of the proceeds of disposal of shares from the tax base. Proposals shall be for income generated by an investor from a closed alternative investment fund by the transfer to the fund of the owned direct holding shares which, at the time of the disposal, have a holding period of at least 36 months, provided that the taxpayer is an investor of the closed alternative investment fund for a period of at least 36 months during the holding of those shares. 1. - The proposal from Member Gats Eglitis. This is partly supported. Incorporated 2. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U103	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U104	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U105	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U106	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U107	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U108	I call on the Saeima to support this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U109	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Corporate Income Tax Law” in the third, final, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Archive Act”, third reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Uldis Budriķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U110	Good evening, dear colleagues! The third reading received 12 proposals. Most of the proposals clarify the wording of the second reading or add to what has already been said at second reading, so often go into the details... I'm not going to go in. So it's 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Culture, Naura Puntulis. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U111	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U112	2. - the proposal of Minister of Culture Puntulis. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U113	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U114	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Culture, Naura Puntulis. Partly supported by the Commission and included 4. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U115	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U116	4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U117	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U118	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. A new Article is added on the rights of the individual with regard to the clarification or completion of personal data contained in archives documents. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U119	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U120	6. - the proposal of Minister of Culture Puntulis. Partly supported and included in 5 and 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U121	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U122	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U123	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U124	8 / 8 - the proposal of Minister of Culture Puntulis. Clarifying. Supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U125	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U126	9. - the proposal of Minister of Culture Puntulis. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U127	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U128	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Culture, Naura Puntulis. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U129	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U130	11. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Related to maturity changes. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U131	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U132	12. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Associated with the entry into force of the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U133	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U134	I call for support to be given to the third, final, reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U135	We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Archive Act” in the third, final, reading! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiniņa – Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U136	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has examined and prepared for the third reading the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law”. We have had several meetings of the Legal Commission for this reading. A total of 54 proposals have been considered. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is editorial in nature. I've been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U137	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U138	2. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Also technical. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U139	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U140	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U141	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U142	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U143	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U144	5. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Editative clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U145	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U146	6. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is envisaged to lay down the basis for the application of the temporary protection, including an aspect of the prevention of serious injury as a precondition for the application of the temporary protection. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U147	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U148	7. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Editative improvement. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U149	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U150	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Provision shall be made for additions to the list of interim measures, including the ‘provisional settlement of disputes’. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U151	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U152	9. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partially supported, included 10. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U153	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U154	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal commission's proposal. It is envisaged to clarify the basis for the application of temporary protection before an action is brought, the urgency of the application relating to the likelihood of serious, irreversible damage. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U155	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U156	11. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is envisaged to provide a common framework for the system by providing that a period of not more than 30 days within which the judge is required to accept an application for interim protection or to provide a claim before an action is brought should be fixed. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U157	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U158	12. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partially supported, included 13. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U159	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U160	13. - The legal commission's proposal. It is envisaged to clarify that the court shall decide on the application on the day following receipt of the application, but if the application is lodged at the same time as the application, the time limit shall be the day following the initiation of the action. Similarly, the application for enforcement of an action at an appeal instance shall be decided by three Judges in a collegial manner. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U161	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U162	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is envisaged to improve the regulation on the safeguarding of losses in cases where the claim is the subject of a cash claim, and this is linked to specific means of collateralising the claim. The proposal also provides that the time limit for the enforcement of damages obligations should not exceed 20 days from the date of the decision. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U163	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U164	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Technically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U165	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U166	16. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Technically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U167	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U168	17. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Technically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U169	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U170	18. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Editable. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U171	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U172	19. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partially supported, included 20. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U173	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U174	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal commission's proposal. It shall be provided that the action of the court and the judge is clarified upon receipt of an application for interim protection. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U175	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U176	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partially supported, included 22. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U177	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U178	22. - The legal commission's proposal. Editable. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U179	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U180	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is also of a editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U181	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U182	24. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Editable. Provision shall be made for an extension of the scope of the Article by allowing not only the defendant but also the other parties to lodge an application for revocation of the temporary protection. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U183	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U184	25. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U185	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U186	26. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U187	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U188	27. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U189	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U190	28. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported and included 29. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U191	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U192	29. - The legal commission's proposal. The wording of the norm, supported at second reading, regarding a new temporary protection against violence – the duty of the defendant to learn the social rehabilitation course, as well as the amount of delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers regulations, is clarified. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U193	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Kronberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U194	Good evening, Madam President. Dear colleagues, When it comes to these draft laws, they are more complicated than they may seem at first. For seven years in Latvia, so-called temporary protection against violence has been introduced. This mechanism provides that a person who considers that psychological, economic or other forms of violence against him may, as an applicant, make an application to the court against another person as a matter of urgency and without evidence. The Court of Justice may, in turn, give judgment in absentia and without evidence on the application of the funds to the defendant. Unfortunately, in life it happens that these norms of the law are also used for abusive purposes. By strengthening the provisions of this law by forced courses, I believe that there are risks of human rights violations that we, as Members, should exclude. The Legal Commission's discussions on this issue should have involved representatives of Latvian orphan courts, judges, police, the State Children's Rights Protection Inspectorate and representatives of the Ombudsman's Office, but unfortunately only participated from the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Welfare. I therefore believe that this draft law has not given rise to a full discussion in order to draft a quality law. By adopting this draft law, there should have been instruments to prevent some of our societies from abuse this regulation by avengeing someone, taking away older children or even property. By adopting this bill, there should have been instruments, apologies... So it is known that people should be protected from domestic violence, unfortunately, the offer of the Civil Procedure Law, although sometimes working in a positive direction, often works as a very convenient tool of violence against innocent people. Thus, in fact, the instrument provided for in the Civil Procedure Act - temporary protection against violence - often acts as a means of combating violence against innocent people. The wrongdoers of the law remain unpunished to destroy people’s lives. I cannot therefore support proposals 29 to 44. I also call on other colleagues not to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U195	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U196	Yeah. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that amendments to the Civil Procedure Act are very important on any issue... where we face them from time to time in the Legal Commission and appreciate them. Every amendment of the Civil Procedure Law has gone very far, now strict purification in the Ministry of Justice, where there are several working groups. One is specifically dedicated to amendments to the Civil Procedure Law. We usually involve as many members as possible in the Legal Commission as possible of the working group on amendments to the permanent Civil Procedure Law, if there have been issues where there are perhaps mixed opinions or divided thoughts in this working group. This draft law has been evaluated very carefully by the Legal Commission until the third reading, also by the representatives of the Ministry of Justice and other invited persons for the second reading. In essence, this third-reading proposal, which is here as a proposal from the committee responsible, only clarifies the proposals for this social rehabilitation presented by the Minister of Justice, Mr Bordāns. It has been for a longer period not only the proposal of the Ministry of Justice, but also the proposal of the Ministry of Welfare... Common. And such rehabilitation courses have been taking place on a voluntary basis for a long time, and the real effect of how a person is being... With his own internal forces and with his help, you can change your behaviour... and from a violent person... You can come back to your family and be a really good father or mother for your children. That is why this particular proposal must certainly be supported. The Commission has also supported this. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U197	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 29. - The Legal Commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! On - 69, against - 8, refraining from - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U198	Next 30. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is envisaged to complement the law with a new article explaining the purpose and nature of the new temporary protection measure against violence. In addition, the proposal also provides for the defendant to be involved in the cost of social rehabilitation courses of 10 per cent if the defendant starts the course within six months, or if the defendant starts the course after six months. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U199	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U200	Dear colleagues, I believe that anti-violence courses could be a good measure, but what we had in the Commission was precisely about this proposal when we were talking about paying for these courses. I thought we shouldn't pay for more violent education, and so at second reading... and so the Ministry of Justice, probably in response to this opinion, brought such a proposal, which determines - 10 per cent of the value of the course of a person who has been violent against his family, pays if he is quite quick to start these courses, or in full, if he resists, hesitates or does not have the opportunity to pass these courses in this way... I don't know. But the problem was that these 10 per cent of the value of the courses, according to the information received from the Ministry of Justice, is about 40 euros. And that means that if a person agrees to voluntarily complete these courses as soon as possible... because leaving courses is, of course, probably a rather complex task for a person who has to deal with himself to restructure his behaviour, a pattern of behaviour towards family members. This is a very difficult task for psychologists... Psychologists say that a person from his model will hardly be able to give up so quickly... from their behaviour. But the problem is that, if a person is willing to make adjustments in his behaviour, he has understood that the problem is in his way of treating the family, and he wants to go out of these courses, he will still have to make a difference from the sum of EUR 40 that, in our day, in the days of the community... where perhaps even good family fathers or mothers at one time have not been able to cope with the stress and stress and have probably crossed the line and have received some condemnation and... the decision that they had been violent... probably because people, I'm sorry, go to butter right now - in this year's time. That, of course... Yes, we will hear that this is not an excuse. But if a person has agreed to make corrections, if a person has agreed to make this adjustment and goes on courses, we still say that the court obliges him to pay them EUR 40... From what budget? From the family budget. If this disagreement in the family, which has led to a lack of self - control, is caused by a lack of funds, we are once again putting the family in a vicious circle. My proposal during the Commission's debate was that the court itself determines whether a person should pay those 10 per cent or not. Because the material situation can also be taken into account, all the circumstances, the desire of a person to complete the course as soon as possible. This proposal is not good, because it will really bring us back to the current one... it will not solve the question. Because it must stimulate positive people who want to be fined, and punish those who may perhaps not want to go through these courses and do not want to hear anything about them. I called for this proposal to be corrected, but I remained in a minority, unfortunately. Some colleagues supported me, and we really had discussions. I call for this proposal to be rejected right now, so that we do not have problems with those people who really want to go out of these courses. And that's nothing, because we don't pay them, the state doesn't pay them for a dandruff. The country pays their families to make their families feel better after they have gone out. That is what we have to perceive. They're not some sort of SPA salon visits. These are courses for family members... You guys... I think it would be better. Thank you. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U201	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U202	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Good evening! Yes, as the previous speakers have clearly pointed out, we really had a debate in the Legal Commission on this. But another factor to consider is that these 10 percent co-payment for these courses... We understand that at this time of emergency, at a time of economic recession, there are very many people who have been left unemployed. Many people are unemployed! Many are unemployed, there are restrictions on assembly, there are restrictions on children doing sports, children have to sit mostly at home, visitors cannot go to each other. And we also see these statistics, we hear the media regularly... in the media that aggression also appears among family members. And many men are unemployed. As we well know, even health - care work is problematic for some of the good people. And aggression appears. Aggression against wives and family members is emerging because people lack the means of living. There is a lack of pay to support your family properly. This is a very important issue: this 10 per cent co-payment. If a man... or the man was aggressive if he gave up his hands to his mate, to his wife if he was in a situation... because the economic situation has contributed to this all, motivated in fact by a lack of money, then under such conditions of 10 per cent co-payment, there may be a situation where a person who has suffered from the aggressive behaviour of this man may also pay those 10 per cent in place of him. Or this question will be brought to the hands and hands of judicious bailiffs. That is why, my fellow Members, I really call for this whole bill to be a good one. - on this particular proposal... Well, as a minimum, to refrain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U203	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U204	Yes, thank you very much to my colleagues Mrs Stepanenko and Mr Tatar for their valuable remarks, for their discussions in the Legal Commission. I have to say that when we are debating this new duty imposed by the court for the third reading, we are going to have rehabilitation courses... and also the state's commitment to cover a very large part of the cost of these courses is really a very big step forward... How has the law so far looked at domestic violence? In the past, we have created and managed just to protect this vulnerable person who demands help and who demands protection from violence, but now we, as a society, also understand that not only punishing, but also giving the opportunity to change, is very important and is in the interests of society as a whole. Such proposals came from the Ministry of Welfare and the Ministry of Justice when we examined the draft law at second reading. At the time, in the Legal Commission, we had a debate directly about whether the company's benefit, which is the financial resources covered by the state budget, is what should be fully covered in this case at 100 per cent, or whether such an obligation on the court to acquire courses could in some way also be as a deterrent... However, it shall also contribute to the financing of these funds by co-financing. Ten percent - true, that could be around EUR 40, as we were informed by the Legal Commission. And we asked and received confirmation from the Ministry of Justice, from the Ministry of Welfare, that these EUR 40 could be covered in the annual section, also paid in instalments. The Commission's meeting was thus about four euros per month. Yeah, any money that a man won't buy for his family... but diverting it for other purposes, it really is also important, and we cannot say that it is big or small, because everything is really compared... and the comparison is not here. However, we in the Commission, hearing the arguments of the Ministry of Justice about the fact that in the Working Party of the Civil Procedure Law there was a lot of discussion about whether the court could assess directly the property situation of the defendant and whether, taking into account the considerations, any discounts or exemptions should be granted directly to persons with lower income than otherwise should be assessed. But it was from among judges and other experts that it would not be possible. As the Legal Commission, we have believed that this issue has been debated, and we have listened to so much of all views, including those of the bailiffs who said that, yes, now, of course, the recovery of administrative penalties is, in any case, one that can also be recovered against family funds, and any recovery, of course, during this community's period, can affect family funds. These 10 percent for rehabilitation courses, so about 40 euros... or up to EUR 40 per year was considered to be a proportionate and dissuasive amount by the Commission. But, of course, we could come back to this issue because such an institution of law, which is an obligation imposed by a court decision, to pass such rehabilitation courses directly to the most violent when 90 per cent of the budget is also covered for it, has not yet been, and it is very important to strengthen it in the law at the moment. The majority of the commission therefore supported this proposal by the Minister of Justice Mr. Janis Bordens. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U205	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for 30. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please, let's vote! For - 63, for - 10, for - 8. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U206	31. - also the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Mr. Janis Bordens. It is provided that the court has the right, on its own initiative, to impose on the defendant a temporary remedy against violence, an obligation on the defendant to take a course of social rehabilitation. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U207	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U208	32. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is envisaged that a temporary instrument of protection against violence - the obligation to take up a course of social rehabilitation - is valid until its completion. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U209	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U210	33. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is provided that, where a decision on temporary protection against violence has been taken before an action is brought and no action is brought within the prescribed period, and the court has decided on temporary protection against violence, no costs shall be incurred. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U211	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U212	34. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is provided that the application for temporary protection against violence shall be examined in written proceedings on the basis of which the court considers it necessary, but may also be heard at a closed hearing. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U213	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U214	35. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is planned to specify the information indicated by the court in the decision imposing a temporary measure of protection against violence on the defendant: the obligation to acquire a course of social rehabilitation. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U215	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U216	36. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is editorial in nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U217	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U218	37. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is envisaged to clarify that the part of the decision on temporary protection against violence relating to the reimbursement of the costs of the social rehabilitation course is enforceable in accordance with the approved wording of Section 250.54A of the Law on the financing of the course and the defendant’s obligation to participate in its financing. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U219	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U220	38. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Provision is made for the obligation for the defendant to receive a social rehabilitation course to reduce violent behaviour not to be replaced by other means of temporary protection against violence. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U221	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U222	39. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is envisaged that if the court rejects an application for temporary protection against violence and has not been heard with the participation of the parties, it shall notify the claimant only. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U223	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U224	40. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Technically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U225	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U226	41 is a technical proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U227	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U228	41. - The legal commission's proposal. The procedure for notifying the service provider of the obligation set out in the decision on temporary protection against violence to receive a social rehabilitation course shall be specified. This is supported by the Commission. I am sorry, proposal 42 is by the Minister of Justice Janis Bordans (Sound Break.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U229	We're...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U230	... included in 43. - in the proposal from the Commission:
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U231	Thank you. So 42. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Partly supported, included 43. - the Commission's proposal. And Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U232	Yes, I'm sorry, I'm jumping. Now it's 43. - The legal commission's proposal. The procedure for notifying the provider of services of the obligation set out in the decision on temporary protection against violence to receive a social rehabilitation course shall be specified. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U233	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U234	44. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Provision shall be made for the establishment of enforcement measures in cases where the obligation of social rehabilitation to reduce violent behaviour is applied and it has not been completed within a year or the defendant has not covered the course costs in the prescribed amount until the end of the course. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U235	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U236	45. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U237	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U238	46. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U239	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U240	47. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Also of a editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U241	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U242	Also 48. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U243	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U244	49. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technical specification. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U245	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U246	50. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. It is planned to align the wording of the legal provision with the legal provisions of the new Housing Rental Law. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U247	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U248	51. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is provided by law to establish that forced eviction is without prejudice to the right of other persons to use the space, where the right to use the space arises from the reinforcement in the Land Register. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U249	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U250	52. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is provided that the amount recovered from the debtor, which does not exceed the minimum amount of maintenance specified in the judgment, but exceeds the amount guaranteed by the State, which the applicant could receive from the Maintenance Guarantee Fund, is transferred to the recoveror, thus ensuring that the child receives the minimum amount of maintenance approximately as close as possible to the amount of maintenance. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U251	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U252	53. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partially supported, included 54. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U253	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U254	Finally, 54. - The legal commission's proposal. The transitional provisions shall be specified, including the entry into force on 1 July 2021 of the regulation of the new temporary protection measure against violence, the obligation to receive a course of social rehabilitation. The transitional provisions also oblige the Cabinet of Ministers to issue regulations on this new temporary means of protection against violence by 30 June 2021. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U255	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U256	So, colleagues, we have examined all 54 proposals put forward in this draft law. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for support for the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” in the third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U257	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law” in the third, final, reading! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 86, against -1, abstaining. The law is passed. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Road Traffic Law’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U258	Good evening, colleagues! At third reading, we will consider the draft law on Road Traffic Law (No. 792/Lp13). I would remind you that the draft law was designed to promote road safety by supplementing the Road Traffic Law with rules that would apply to the inclusion of electric shock wheels in road traffic. The draft law also specifies the definitions of a bicycle, a mopeds, a motorcycle, a tricycle and a quadricycle, and regulation of the training of a bicycle and vehicles. 13 proposals were submitted to the third reading. 1. - That's Mr. Kaspars's proposal. Provision shall be made for the deletion of a rule determining the level of alcohol in the blood from which driving is prohibited. The proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U259	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U260	Good evening, honourable colleagues! I will try to outline a small problem precisely about drinking spheres. So I'll give you some statistics. Currently, the number of drives allowed in Latvia is up to 0.5 for drivers with a length of more than two years, and the number of drives allowed for young drivers (up to two years) is 0.2. However, at the moment we see that in Europe too, these zero promenades are moving and approaching... The dose should be reduced in Somehow we can take Lithuania as an example. In Lithuania, 0,4 promenades are allowed for drivers over two years old, and for young drivers there are zero promenades. Estonia has gone a different route, with 0,2 promenade allowed for all drivers. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that Latvia should move towards reducing the number of such promenades, because unfortunately, we have very poor statistics. Although we can take an example of the reported administrative violation protocol for 2020 statistics: 2789 drivers were under the influence of alcohol, as well as 2897 drivers of a bicycle or a moped were under the influence of alcohol. This means that on average between 15 and 20 drivers are caught daily under the influence of alcohol. But the biggest problem is not this little prom... The next proposals I have written were also intended to move on to these zero proms. However, statistics show that the greatest problems, of course, are also from 1.5 promenades, and these drivers are also responsible for accidents. But the basic idea is to make people aware of the idea that drinking alcohol and sitting down at the wheel of a vehicle are incompatible. If we take statistics on the number of road accidents involving drivers, then in 2018, there were only 684 drivers, in 2019 - 663... with a trend to decrease, but in 2020 there were already 733 drivers involved in traffic accidents. Maybe... Perhaps this is the impact of the community's effects, but also statistics are very poor in 2021. If we look at statistics on alcohol-related accidents caused by drivers, there were 173 accidents and 14 deaths in 2019. If you look at the number of deaths on the millions of citizens in the Member States of the European Union, then Latvia looks very, very sad. We divide the third and fourth place and leave even Lithuania and Estonia behind. Consequently, we can conclude that we would also need to improve this Road Traffic Law, as well as to improve road safety and to think about various measures. Of course, there was a broad resonance in society about my proposal for these zero proms. Even if you can take an example... Delfi had a debate and the Prosecutor-General also expressed his views on how to fight drunkards. However, the Latvian public media carried out a study and asked citizens whether you would support the idea that a car could only be run if there were zero promenades. A total of 802 respondents participated, of which 71 percent supported my proposal and 25 percent opposed. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that in a study carried out by the Road Safety Directorate “The public attitude towards driving in the influence of the public” it has been found that overall Latvia has a negative attitude towards driving in the drink, 90 percent of respondents consider it to be a reprehensible act. I can mention Hungary as a good example. Hungary introduced zero promenades in 2008 and, following the introduction of these zero promenades, the number of road accidents has already decreased by 30 percent in the coming years and the number of deaths has decreased by 50 percent. Here, however, the emphasis is on working on other preventive measures, not only to reduce prostheses. I would also like to point out that I personally withdraw my proposals 1, 2, 3, 4 and 10 at the moment. Because the Road Traffic Act has been reopened at the moment, and we also agreed within the Commission that I will be able to re-submit my proposals and to carry out new, broader discussions. So did it to the public... The Prosecutor General called for the possible introduction of criminal liability from 1.5 promenades. Also as one of the possible risks...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U261	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Girgen. Speech Time... Please get the microphone back to Mr. Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U262	Could you please join me? Very briefly...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U263	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U264	Thank you. So once again, if they did not, I withdrew my proposals 1, 2, 3, 4 and 10. We will continue discussions in this reopened Road Traffic Law, as well as the Criminal Law, which can provide for criminal liability from 1.5 promenades, is now open. There are many different ways in which we can move, and what the final result will then be, perhaps we will see after a certain time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U265	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U266	Dear President, Honourable Members! Well, a classic and silly proposal using false statistics. If Mr. Girgen counts here those who have caused accidents, then why is there no statistics on how many people have caused accidents with this indicator - up to 0.5 promenades? And, as we heard from the police officers who are ironing themselves on this proposal, then 92 percent of the salt that caused the accident is more than 1.5. So Mr. Girgen has concluded that the police don't have anything to do, and they should take, let's say, drivers who have drank a glass of beer in some way. Therefore, next time, if you are going to submit such proposals again, as you said, in law, please prepare precise statistics and distribute them to Members. And don't tell fairy tales here, because with statistics you can prove everything. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U267	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, which should be added to proposal 1?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U268	Obviously, the proposal has been withdrawn, and it was not supported by the Commission, with a large majority.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U269	Consequently, the proposal has been withdrawn, as have proposals 2, 3, 4 and 10. So we can move on to proposal 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U270	Yeah, so five. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. Provision shall be made for the right of the state or municipal road manager to conclude a delegation agreement with the State Police on the installation of technical means of detection without stopping the vehicle. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U271	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U272	Hello, colleagues! I would like to inform you that the proposal is about thinking about and improving road safety, and in future not only the Road Safety Directorate could install control means on the roads, but it could also be done by the road manager - both the State Road Manager, who would be “State Roads of Latvia”, as well as the respective municipalities that have their own roads. So I call on my fellow Members to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U273	I closed the debate. Do Members want to vote on proposal 5? Members do not ask for a vote, Members support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U274	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U275	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U276	Also seven. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. The Commission is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U277	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U278	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Gürgen. Editable. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U279	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U280	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U281	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U282	Proposal No 10 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U283	Proposal withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U284	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U285	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U286	12. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is planned to set the time limits for the entry into force of the transitional provisions and for the drafting of the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U287	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U288	And 13. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport Linkaita. Provision shall be made for the date of entry into force of the transitional provisions. The Commission is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U289	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U290	The date of entry into force has been set to prepare the order in which the means of control could be deployed, but I would like to thank my colleagues in the Saeima that today we have examined this draft law and will be able to draw up the appropriate regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers as soon as possible, and already in this season electric wheels will be able to drive according to the rules of road traffic. Thank you. I also call for support to be given to the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U291	I closed the debate. Members support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U292	I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2223-U293	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law "Amendments to the Road Traffic Law" in the third, final, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, Members Jansons, Latkovsky, Asheraden, Čakša and Lībiņa-Egnere are asking for a break in the second extraordinary sitting of March 18th this year until 9 a.m. on 8 April this year. Dear colleagues, We must vote on this. Please... Members have not applied to speak about or against. Please call me! We will vote for a break at the second remote emergency sitting on 18 March this year until 9 a.m. on 8 April this year! Please, let's vote! For - 84, for - 1, for - 1. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, So, by 9 a.m. on April 8, this year. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. Thank you for your work tonight. We will continue our meeting at 9: 00 a.m. on 8 April. ( Interruption)
