ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-08-PT13-2268-U1	Dear Members, Honourable Members! The agenda for the third remote emergency session of the Saeima started to be discussed. On the agenda, draft decision on the election of a member of the Saeima Secretary. Honourable Members! The Saeima Presidium has received... three nominated candidates for the post of Secretary of the Saeima. Members Juris Pūce, Vita Anda Steel and Andris Skride on 13. Members of the Saeima have nominated Ms Inese Voika. Group of the Greens/ Farmers' Union on 13. Member of the Saeima has been nominated by many Members of Parliament. And Member Maris Možvillo for 13. Members of the Saeima have been nominated by Members of the Parliament, Ieva Krapani. Under the parliamentary order, Members may have a debate on nominations. Does anyone want to debate? So no one has applied for a debate; the debate does not want to be debated. I closed the debate. Colleagues! So three candidates have been nominated. In accordance with the vote on candidates in the parliamentary roll, the vote on candidates must take place at the same time, with an open vote with voting marks. A candidate shall be considered elected if, in accordance with Articles 23 and 24 of the Satversme, at least half of the members of the Saeima participate in the vote and the candidate has obtained an absolute majority of the votes of the Members present. In the remote sitting of the Saeima, so... An open vote with ballot papers will take place on the platform e-Saeima by filling in the electronic electoral sign. When making your choice, note that the “for” mark should not be made for more than one candidate. You can make a mark against everyone if you want to vote against all candidates, and you can submit an election sign that does not contain a mark, but such an election mark will be considered invalid. Dear colleagues, So the first round. Please activate the first round of votes with voting marks! Voting time – one minute. Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Dear colleagues, 85 electoral marks were issued for the first round of the Seimas Secretary, 15 electoral marks were deleted, 79 election marks were recognised as valid, 1 election mark was declared invalid, the sign ‘to all’ was not... so no electoral sign. Voika: “for” – 68 votes, “for” – 11 votes; Gundars Dauge: “for” – 6 votes, “for” – 73 votes; Ieva Krapāne: “for” – 5 votes, “for” – 74 votes. Inese Voika was elected Secretary of the Saeima. Congratulations to Inese Voika on her election as a member of the Saeima Secretary! Dear colleagues, So today... The agenda for the third extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 8 June has been examined. I remind you that in 15 minutes, so at 16:20, we will continue to work on the first agenda of today's extraordinary session – amendments to the Law on Higher Education at third reading. Only registration of the participants of the meeting.
