ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2242-U1	Good evening, dear colleagues! The agenda for the first remote emergency session of 22 April 2021 shall be opened. Examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Hunting Act”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Jānis Dūklavs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2242-U2	Hello, colleagues! Working with the draft law “Amendments to the Hunting Law” (No. 1027/Lp13). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Hunting Law” submitted by the Members’ Group, which is prepared jointly with the Ministry of Agriculture, the working group set up by it. The aim of the draft law is to reduce the damage caused by wild game, to increase the efficiency of hunting and, by expanding the range of hunting tools, to eliminate other shortcomings in the current Hunting Law, as well as problems... Either, certain problems are, editorially technical, in this law. I would like to explain to you that in recent years there has been a significant increase in populations of cloven-hoofed animals (mainly of stylus, stylus and algae), and thus a significant increase in the density of animals per unit area; the result is a significant increase in the damage caused by game on agricultural areas and in the forest (mainly on newly restored areas and young crops). This indicates that the population density of these animals has exceeded the sustainable limit, as animals begin to tear down the feed base. This in turn causes considerable damage to farmers and forest owners, as well as a substantial increase in spending on protective measures. The draft law is designed to reduce the damage to wild game, to travel, as I have already mentioned, the effectiveness of hunting. What might this law have on the economy? In real terms, game damage to agricultural crops and forests could be reduced, losses to farmers and forest owners could be reduced, wild game populations and hunting areas would be better managed. Overall, this is also a prerequisite for a positive impact on the economy. Dear colleagues, This draft law was supported by the Commission. On behalf of the Commission, I call on you to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2242-U3	Thank you for your report. Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2242-U4	Good evening, colleagues! And thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak. I took note of the draft law and analysed the reservations and arguments of the Environment Advisory Council regarding the proposed version of the law. I also read a letter from the Ministry of Agriculture from the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. It shows that in fact the Ministry of Agriculture had tabled amendments to the Hunting Law and that they related to the eradication of African swine fever. At the same time, however, some of the Members representing the hunters' lobby have put forward their proposals and their arguments as to why such amendments need to be introduced. I believe that we need to evaluate and protect not only hunting and hunting collectives, and hunting economic activity or entertainment, or recreation, or... I don't know how to name hunting today, because I believe that hunting is a hobby or addiction to certain people who are interested in it and can't give up it. Certain hunting cannot be described as an occupation that is necessary to sustain life or life. I believe that the destruction of animals during hunting is not such an acute need for society and that it is just a hobby, a way that people, to say, satisfy some of their internal needs or... I find it difficult to name it because I believe that hunting is not a way of doing something that should be extended or which should be discussed in legislation. The ability to shoot animals, for example, with special weapons offered by this bill, actually... I find it hard to even formulate it... The use of night vision devices shall be authorised. With electronic magnification, with heat-receiving sights in the dark time of the day... and differently... not hunting weapons to ensure the hunting process in the public interest... It's a murder. Murder using special weapons – night visions... with heat capture... used by nature in war or in hostilities. It does not seem to me that now is the time for us to use war weapons during hunting. That's my subjective opinion. For me, the presentation and annotation of this bill is unacceptable, so I will vote 'no'. And I also ask colleagues not to support this type of amendment to the Hunting Act. And another thing that really concerns me is the lack of logic in the annexation of the bill, namely, our colleagues, lobbyists from hunting supporters, say that these kinds of objects, the sights of the night, are necessary to ensure... So to say, keep... because the population of biungulates, mainly of stylus, stylus and oat, has increased significantly. But, you know, as a matter of fact, hunters are planning with these sights... Why is this population growing? Because they shoot predators – wolves, lynx. Logically, if these cloven-hoofed animals do not have natural enemies that use them, let us say so, in their food chain, their population is growing, and then they harm agriculture or private property and man. And then the question arises: is everything really right with hunting policy planning? Are we all right with the reasoning and logic of introducing any amendments and justifying them? And really, using sights and heat capture devices for hunting... This is the way in which the sow population will be reduced? We can see that their population growth is probably most directly related to the shooting of lynx and wolves. So... Seeing all these differences, these illogical and unfounded cases, and understanding and understanding the opinion and reasoning of the Environment Advisory Council (they do not support the future of such a draft law in this version), I would ask colleagues not to support the future of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2242-U5	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2242-U6	Good evening, everybody! Hunting law – it is one of those rare laws that are usually discussed here in the Saeima in such a way... There is a democratic debate, not a political coalition vote on this bill, and I would therefore like to call on Members to listen a little bit to a couple of facts that would be worth knowing and worth thinking about before you vote in favour of this bill. In my opinion, this is not the best example of legislation: what is happening at the moment. And I will explain my point of view, both in terms of procedure and in substance. On the procedure. As has already been mentioned here, this draft law... It is not a draft law prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture, it is an initiative of individual Members, which was discussed by the Ministry of Agriculture and then came to us, the Saeima, as a separate draft law. If we were talking about the procedure, it would have been right... If already the Ministry of Agriculture... There is a valid question - why the Ministry of Agriculture... if they think that this idea is right and helpful, why wasn't it... did not go their usual legislative path, that is, through the Cabinet of Ministers... with matching... This will be coordinated with all competent and interested parties. Why is this so important? One of the details was already mentioned by the previous speaker, who, although not present at this committee meeting, came to know these documents, concluded that it was not really all right with this initiative. And I'll explain why. The first thing we heard at our committee meeting: there are several risk factors here. One is that we are basically talking about the fact that there is a desire... how more convenient to hunt, make a wider range of these hunts closer to cities and with more convenient... a wider range of weapons, equipment. In the Commission, a police representative drew attention... In principle opposed such regulation, talked about the danger of implementing such regulation, as it could be dangerous for people. In particular, this is true of thermotypes, which can represent a real threat to people, because they can not distinguish an animal from a man who can be there, because we are talking about the fact that we want to extend this principle now - that they can hunt in the vicinity of cities. This is just one of the risks. I think it would be right to direct this draft law, as I said, through the Cabinet of Ministers and not to support it here today. Not because, in principle, we should not address this problem relating to the animal population, but because it should be dealt with responsibly, because we are talking here today about the lives of people who may be threatened in this way. It could not only be mismanagement this population... possibly inadequate resources, but also human lives could be put at risk. Therefore, colleagues, my proposal would be not to direct this bill further today, but to give the Ministry of Agriculture the opportunity to do its job thoroughly - not just to consult hunters and make this bill from the point of view of unilateral interests, but to discuss it from all sides and come with a sound, thought-out bill. So I call for such a draft law not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2242-U7	I closed the debate. Will you comment on behalf of the Commission? Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2242-U8	Thank you. I think that everything that was written in the annotation has been discussed here by colleagues. I can't speak from myself now; I can only express the opinion of the committee. There were discussions in the Commission, there was a vote and a draft law at first reading was supported. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2242-U9	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Hunting Law” at first reading! Please, let's vote! For - 51, for - 17, for - 8. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2242-U10	I call for proposals to be submitted by 24 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2242-U11	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 24 May this year. Dear colleagues, The next item on the agenda is the examination of Members' requests. Opinion of the Panel on the request of Members Viktors Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Janina Jalinska, Jānis Dūklavs, Māra Kučinska, Edgars Tatars, Jānis Vacāns, Gundars Kaite, Armands Krauze, Raimonds Bergmanis to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš on the inability of the Ministry of Health to organise and implement vaccination process against Covid-19. On behalf of the Commission, Ivars Puga, Member. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2242-U12	Colleagues! The Panel examined the request made by Members Viktors Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Janīna Jalinska, Jānis Dūklavs, Māra Kučinska, Edgars Tatars, Jānis Vacāns, Gundars Kaite, Armands Krauze, Raimonds Bergmanis to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On Inability of the Ministry of Health to Organise and Implement the Vaccination Process against Covid-19” (No. 55/P13) and voted: four - in favour, six - against, one Member abstained... One Member, forgiveness, did not vote. And the result... the opinion is that the request must be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2242-U13	Let's start a debate. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2242-U14	Dear colleagues, The request to Prime Minister Artur Krišjānis Kariņš “On the inability of the Ministry of Health to organise and implement the vaccination process against Covid-19” is justified and topical, as vaccination has been completed only 2.5 percent of Latvia’s population. The vaccination process in our country is still not smooth and orderly. The criticisms are expressed both by the grafters and by the general public. The Prime Minister has also called for changes to those responsible if vaccination does not take on a high pace. Erich Maria Remarks has once said: “Never complicate what you can do simply! It's one of the greatest tricks. However, it is difficult to realise." ( End quoted) I believe that family doctors would be able to regulate vaccination more effectively. They usually know their patients best. Family doctors know the particularities of each individual’s health or whether a particular person can be grafted at all. In April, the so-called live line was opened, in which anyone wishing to be vaccinated could join, regardless of their membership of one of the priority groups. The experiment showed that there are many more people who want to be vaccinated than the country is able to provide vaccines. In addition, several vaccination centres notified their closure a few hours after their opening. It must also be borne in mind that thousands of people have been in the queue for several hours - instead of having to electronically book time for themselves. Welcome to the 21st century, and “Thank you” to the Ministry of Health! Not long after... The Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry will already assess on Tuesday the errors made during the Covid-19 pandemic, the planning weaknesses and the unimaginable scandal with the non-vacuum of the vaccine. Attention will be paid to the purchase procedure, as the vaccines were ordered - who and what amount decided to buy, buy or not buy, one or the other vaccine; who and what was directly proposed to lay down on the basis of the vaccination plan. What is happening in the government, in my opinion, has nothing to do with the care of the health of Latvian citizens. The government had a lot of time in the summer and autumn to strengthen health care, order vaccines, build logistics chains, but it did not. If all sectoral ministers were to have adequate education and the restrictions were reasonable, if there were less controversial declarations, half-truths and empty promises on the part of representatives of the power parties, then the vaccination would go more smoothly. The restrictions imposed on many people by the pandemic have indeed already become tired - as is the creation of a fearful atmosphere and rows, fear of dismissal, the promise of a green passport at the same time as restrictions on human rights. The question arises: If a country did not have a vaccine to graft a nation, what right does someone in the government try to open a discussion about the sorting of people? It is not the fault that there are no vaccines that have not been vaccinated. In my opinion, there is no reason to introduce vaccination facilities until everyone has had the same chance of vaccination. It is necessary to ensure fairness in the availability of vaccines. In preparing the issue of this scale and the solution of this scale, the government must first carefully assess the real situation and the opportunities of our country. Otherwise, judicial action on discrimination will be required. At the moment, it is also clear that if a worker is dismissed because of a lack of vaccination, the dispute will also have to be settled in court. The so-called digital green certificate should also not be supported at the moment, because Latvia is simply not ready for it. And it is only the Latvian government that is guilty of this, which has failed completely in everything that was connected with the fight against the virus. That is why the citizens are treated like this too, so no one believes or trusts anything. In fact, there are still very, very many questions. For example, will vaccination newspapers be supplied to those who have already vaccinated? I propose that these printed materials be delivered to those who have wood heating. The Prime Minister and the Minister for Health must provide comprehensive and clear answers to these questions. I call for support for the request. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2242-U15	I closed the debate. Please call me! No, I'm sorry, the debate is going on. Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2242-U16	Dear President, Dear colleagues, What do we want to know with this request? We want to be so clear about this bardaque that has been introduced throughout the whole vaccination process. We well remember this debate... and the cost of developing, implementing and promoting this electronic line. We gave people hope - we told people to register, those who are willing to receive this vaccine on a voluntary basis. Now we can see to what it has led to. This has led to the fact that the vast majority of those who have vaccinated are in living order, not knowing if they will receive the vaccine or not. We hear that people who have stayed two hours in the queue have not received the vaccine. Politicians are talking about the quality and effectiveness of these vaccines, rather than giving the floor to the top-class professionals, the industry professionals who could talk about them. Bardak's absolute! We also see these seminars organised by the National Centre for the Content of Education, where even teachers preparing for 2020/2021. In the course of the final exams, says: “If you’ve become ill or you’ve subsided with “Pfizer” or “Modern”, you don’t have to do tests before the exam, but if you’ve subsided with “AstraZeneca”, you have to test.” At the same time, most of the company offers AstraZeneca pots! How does society react? Where is that logical explanation? If we want to achieve... If the country as a whole wants to reach a certain amount of people who have been vaccinated and who have antibodies so that they can return to normal work so that the economy develops, then... There is absolutely nothing done by the government to prepare qualitatively for this process to inform our societies fairly, qualitatively and accurately. We hear about these newspapers - there will be, there won't be... There is a dispute over languages - there will be, there won't be... On the effects of these different vaccines, we have different opinions, including what the State Educational Content Centre tells teachers: “If you are poking with AstraZeneca, you still have to test it.” What do they educators think automatically when they hear it? So it's logical that AstraZeneca doesn't work... Do not protect them. So, what's the point? You know, there are a lot of questions to which we really have to get quality answers. I therefore call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2242-U17	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the request made by the Member Valaiņa, Jaliņa, Jalinska, Dūklava, Kučinska, Tatar, Wuzana, Koite, Krauzze and Bergmanis, Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš, about the inability of the Ministry of Health to organise and implement the vaccination process against Covid-19! Please, let's vote! - 30, 53, abstaining - not. The request was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the final section of the agenda. Discussion of the own-initiative proposal The draft decision “On the way forward of the 11 376 collective application “On the ban on lynx hunting” of Latvian citizens. On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications - Member Normunds Gunna. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2242-U18	Hello, colleagues! On 11 March this year, the Saeima received a collective application from 11 376 Latvian citizens “On the ban on lynx hunting”. On 7 April, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application of the Saeima examined this collective application, which invites us to change legislation in order to ban lynx hunting in the territory of Latvia. The Commission listened to the author of the initiative, who believes that lynx hunts in Latvia have no grounds and do so without balanced arguments in violation of European Union directives. The Commission also heard representatives of the Latvian Hunters' Union, the Latvian Hunters' Association, the Latvian State Forest Science Institute “Silava” and the State Forest Service, who indicated that the lynx population in Latvia is recovering successfully, its situation is favourable and the prohibition of hunting is not justified from the point of view of protection of lynx or from the scientific point of view. In turn, invited representatives of the State Audit Office and the Nature Conservation Board pointed to shortcomings and necessary improvements in the context of EU directives. The Commission, having heard the authors of the initiative, as well as invited experts and based on the fourth and fifth part of Section 131.5 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, prepared a draft decision of the Saeima “On the way forward of a collective application of 11 376 Latvian citizens “On the ban on lynx hunting”” and unanimously decided to hand this initiative to the Saeima Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission for further evaluation. Please support the draft decision drawn up by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2242-U19	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2242-U20	Good afternoon, honourable chair of the sitting, honourable colleagues! The issue of lip-hunting is being looked at again at in the Saeima, moving forward. I said last time that I tried to ban lynx hunting... it is actually an intervention in the order in which it currently exists in relation to wild game and birds. But I'd like more... Once again, to put forward arguments in connection with the fact that it seems that there are very few lynxes that they... The lynx interferes, let's say, many... To live in illusions... I would like to say, first of all, that Latvia's territory is not homogeneously populated; in many places in Latvia, especially in the eastern border, the territory is very sparsely populated, there are many areas - forests, bogs, shrubs - where wild animals and birds live. It's not a territory that's similar... For the countries of central Europe, let us say, for Germany, for Switzerland, for the Netherlands... Disruption of order in these sparsely populated areas, areas - this threatens to change very seriously both the animal population and... Especially... There may also be situations where people can be threatened by these predators - both the lives of animals on their holding and even the lives of the people themselves. And more. I would like to say that the hunting of lynx every year involves research - monitoring. Its regulation, which is determined year by year on the basis of the growth of existing animals, including lynx... And lynx growth... There's this number of hunts... how many lynx can be hunted; this year it was 180; that means that this number is every year... If they don't hunt lynx, the number of lynx will increase every year. What do we want to do with this? That's the kind of animal that's predators... Both wolves and lynx, but now the bears... population is increasing. And if the hunter does not regulate the number of these predators, then we can experience a situation where the predators will be huge in the forests of Latvia, while other beasts, smaller beasts, will be few or will disappear. What, then, are the enemies of the rain? There is virtually no natural enemy between animals. If the number of animals increases unnaturally, for example, lynx, then the disease is at risk and the spread of the disease is directly linked to the population. And if someone thinks that the lynx is fed, for example, with Kitakat... That's not the case. Lucis is a predator. In fact, this animal can be called the perfect machine for killing other animals. Lucis has very sharp teeth, sharp nails, excellent hearing, blond reaction, speed, and mostly lynx diet, feed base, there are stylus, bucks, honey, rubles, woodworms - all those little animals that live in the forest. If the lynx is close to such animals, there is little chance of survival for these small animals. So what? We're gonna protect lynx, we're gonna make lynx dolls? But what dolls are we going to make in connection with bunny and steaks? Especially the white bunny... Then they must have broken heads or something like that... Looking at the previous speaker who spoke in connection with the Hunting Law, Lubov Švekova, I would say this: it is clear that one person in Latvia may not be completely clear about how this hunting farm is managed. I would like to say that hunting is not just animal hunting, it is farming in specific hunting areas - in compartments. And it's a hard job, it's a huge event. In fact, the animals are regulated, let's say, their activity, their number, because continuously hunters are marketed - let's say, require that a certain number of algae and deer be hunted, as well as stylus - forest owners, especially the “State Forests of Latvia”, because these animals are doing more than young animals and so on. But knowing that many people listen to this sitting, I call on young people to become hunters, because the young man who is a hunter is in fact always in form. That means he has the ability to orient himself in the forest... in nature, in darkness, quietly and carefully move, mask, be patient, but... to develop a bright reaction, an accurate shooting exercise, because to hunt animals and birds, the hunter needs to understand and apply all these. And more. I would like to say that collective hunting strengthens the sense of hunting community - irrespective of religion or nationality. And many things that relate to, say, hunting, useful things - especially young people, developing purely physically. I will not hide that, in Soviet times, many young people became hunters because of another consideration, that is, in this way, as a hunter, every young man, in fact I used to... We were able to maintain a good physical form and develop our skills that are connected to hunting, but which would probably also be useful at a time when, for example, the Fatherland, the homeland, should be protected. Better be young people hunting than they sit on a computer! And neither is it so calm in the world right now, and it is not excluded that... Who knows... Don't give it to God!... one aggressor would once again conquer our country, our Latvia. Well, then, I think hunters - especially young hunters - could also safely use the protection of the homeland's own capabilities that have been acquired as hunters. That is why I call once again on young people to stand up as hunters, to add up the rows of hunters and to be patriots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2242-U21	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2242-U22	Thank you. Colleagues! In response to Mr Kazinovsky's argumentation and justification, I would like to say that Latvia is now a full member of the European Union and NATO. Latvia has a sufficiently competitive and developed defence service. Latvia has a highly developed structure, physical fitness, as well as appropriate competence, as well as the possibility of... if any foreign policy risks could occur... in order to ensure national protection and to protect Latvia's independence in honour. But I think it wouldn't be right to justify shooting hunting and lynx with the same kind of risks like using night vision sights, using heat-receiving sights... hunting legislation and... hunting. And I want to say why. I was very surprised at the previous vote on Development/About! position, voting precisely in favour of the Hunting Act in the form proposed. Why? Because I believe that in fact, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development... and under the supervision of an existing... the party concerned, political power, should take greater care to protect the environment, protect and respect the opinion of the Environment Advisory Council and represent it in the Saeima. What I have seen in the previous vote... And maybe it will be now, but... I ask to support this collective application of Latvian citizens and to prevent the continuation of lynx hunting. Why? If we talk about the fact that the State Audit Office in its opinion (we met it in the previous sitting) pointed out the problem that exists regarding lynx hunts, then... It has been found, and it is the fact that there are risks, there are inconsistencies and there are hunters... a strong lobby that was very reflected in today's Saeima vote. A very strong lobby. And really hunters were faster, smarter, more responsive than nature guards... it is not the position of nature conservation representatives or the position on this issue. I believe that the shooting of lynx should not be justified by the fact that hunters are carrying out research. I'm so sorry, but the Academy of Agriculture... The Latvian University of Agriculture has carried out a study in which... Ministry of Education and Science... of which... He spent five million to carry out the research... in which it was also possible to examine both the lynx population and to align it with the European Union... ( Rather than - offer a solution for cutting cucumbers, as you need to cut tomatoes... and, so to say, cooking recipes quote in the study!) It would be a very useful study, and it would be money for a study, specifically related to nature, with agriculture, and then we would receive a specific and understandable study, an objective study, a scientific study, not a study of hunters who are interested in the shooting of lynx, on this issue. I think it would be very useful to spend public money on research. Both nature protection and decision-makers would be fully and impartially informed about the lynx population, its condition and so on. This is about research and the contribution of hunters to this issue. Next question. I am indignation: where is the logic of decision-making?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Where is... Is that so? There's no reason. We're talking... The hunters or Mr Kazinovsky are talking about the fact that there has been a significant increase in the population of biungulates, such as stylus, stable deer, and algae. The only reason why it grew up is that they in nature have no natural enemies that use them for eating, I am very sorry! And this means that there is a lack of precisely predator species of animals that have been shot. Then the question arises: where is the logic of adopting amendments to the Hunting Act and now saying that we do not need to defend lynx and limit lynx hunting?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I fully join the citizens' collective application initiative and believe that in the future, when speaking and discussing amendments to the Hunting Act... I ask colleagues to pay attention to this and also respect for nature conservation and... The opinion or position of the Environment Advisory Council in addressing these issues regarding authorised hunts, authorised weapons and related risks as well as possible consistency. Please support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-04-29-PT13-2242-U23	Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that the Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Krista Baumane, Marija Golubeva, Alda Adamoviča, Ainara Latkovska and Iveta Benhen-Beken to declare a break in the first remote emergency session of the Saeima on 22 April from 18.00 to 9 a.m. on 6 May this year. Please call me! We will vote in favour of Members Bauman, Golubeva, Adamovich, Latkovsky and Benhen-Beeken's proposal to declare a break before 9 a.m. on 6 May. Please, let's vote! For - 68, for - 8, for - 3. We have accepted the motion put forward by Members, which is a break from the sitting by 9 a.m. on 6 May. Consequently, we have only left the registration of the presence of Members. It's over. Adjournment of the sitting - May 6 at 9.00. Good evening! ( Interruption)
