ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! Let us begin the remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 16 December this year. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law entitled ‘Amendment to the Law on Value Added Tax’ submitted by Mr Valaiņa, Ms Jalinska, Mr Krauzze and Mr Dūklav be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, with a view to its being the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Armands Krauze. ( Pause) Mr. Krauze, we can't hear you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U2	So, you hear that?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U3	Let's hear it, yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U4	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, As electricity prices continue to rise and new records are reached, the Union of Greens and Farmers invites the Saeima not to delay and adopt a draft law on the reduction of value added tax on electricity. Our group Members have prepared and submitted proposals for amendments to the VAT law to the Saeima. The Greens and Farmers' Union are calling for the VAT rate to be set at five per cent next year from 1 January to 31 December and to apply to electricity, its transmission services, distribution services and the compulsory procurement component. In the past, as part of the review of the 2022 budget, the FAO called on the Saeima to decide on the application of a reduced rate of VAT on electricity, but this proposal did not support the majority of the Saeima Coalition. Unlike the coalition, we cannot watch quietly and do nothing in a situation where the price of electricity is reaching ever new and new records. The measures proposed by the government to date to support certain population groups are not sufficient to compensate for the increase in uncontrolled bills. We draw attention to measures taken in other countries of the European Union, such as temporarily reduced taxes, to prevent a rapid rise in household expenditure due to electricity prices. At the current coalition offer, if the distribution tariffs were to be halved, this would mean an average of 3 to 10 euros, or about 15 percent savings for households... the price of electricity has risen by hundreds of percent in 2021. Compared to the reduced distribution rate, 15 percent - this is little. It should be remembered that it would also cause losses to the Distribution Network, which the country will then compensate, as planned, for over a certain period of time - from the CO2 emission allowance money. I think this is not the solution: put money from one pocket into another pocket. Why can we not set a maximum price for electricity at this time of crisis? Why can't VAT on electricity be reduced? Latvia chooses its own special path, I would say, to enslave and remove citizens in debt without reducing VAT, in contrast to a large number of countries in the European Union where VAT is reduced. For example, countries such as Belgium, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Germany, Estonia, Ireland, Italy, Portugal, Spain and the Netherlands. All these countries have reduced VAT on electricity. Our proposal on VAT on electricity would allow us to reduce bills by another sixth, but this was rejected in the course of the financial review of the 2022 budget. Instead, the government has undertaken to partially finance housing benefits paid from municipal budgets to cover the poor. Is there really not yet enough burden on municipalities... and in recent years the revenue has been reduced by about EUR 300 million! If the ruling coalition cannot offer how to save this critical situation, because there are all kinds of other things in the budget... there are grand pianos, there are summits, and they are designed to sway some interest in a narrow community, to celebrate a festival, to raise civil servants' salaries, while defending the whole nation and depreciating this critical situation to the state... And just... It's like there's no money for a country, but Mr. Carney once said there's so much! Then, of course, the most convenient way is to move everything on the back of the municipality. It seems that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have such an approach: if the people do not have something to eat, eat cakes, because all things will be fine for the officials and the public administration - salaries will be increased and the headache will also not provide electricity and other bills. The ruling coalition found funding in the budget for the organisation of various really pointless measures of several million. I believe that decision-makers must come to the mind: what is more important in the country: the nation, every person who fairly pays taxes in that country, all bills and tries to survive, or the various desires of the ruling politicians, grandephones, suspicious facial masks and fences. According to the STECF, VAT on electricity needs to be reduced, at least at this critical moment when the price is so high. In addition, it is also necessary to discuss the partial departure from the Nord Pool stock exchange, the 50 per cent reduction in the distribution tariffs offered. Yes, it is. I would also like to say to liberal politicians that we need to think and help the whole nation, reduce VAT on electricity, not talk about a very good free market and push the majority of the population into debt. I call for the vote in favour and support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U5	Ms Ilze Indricksone, a Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U6	Good morning, colleagues! I will call for a 'no' vote. And why? We have now offered... in the range... all kinds of support instruments for the electricity tariff could be said to decrease and prices... the reduction of the terminal bill. It has already been achieved that the distribution system tariff will not be built, which was planned for the summer. Support for protected users has also been increased, and the range of beneficiaries has been extended by the introduction of an automatic payment system... in respect of the allowance. Currently, it is used by more than 90,000 households. According to information provided by Latvenergo yesterday, except for multi-child families, where consumption is indeed higher, in other groups this support covers more than electricity in bills has developed. Energy intensive enterprises have also been improved and support is being provided. There is monthly support for seniors in this heating season. The reduction in the mandatory procurement component has also been decided and will start from 1 January, which will save around 6 percent on the final bill. At present, the offer contained both a reduction in the value added rate for all energy sources and a subsidy to the distribution tariff system. In fact, the State will compensate the distribution system for part of the tariff of 50 per cent. This is currently the most targeted support, as it will help not only citizens but also businesses. In my opinion, all the other instruments are available to us, we will evaluate them dynamically and we will continue to apply them in the future if necessary. At this point, I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U7	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against. We have to vote. Please call me! Vote on the draft law on the amendment to the Law on Value Added Tax (No. Transfer of 1256/Lp13 to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! On - 34, against - 48, refraining from - 2. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Bureau of the Saeima proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” presented by Member Dombrovskis, Papules, Ģirgens, Pucens and Petravičs (No. 1257/Lp13) is transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the Commission responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U8	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, In essence, we are talking about the same issue that colleagues from the Union of Greens/Farmers have just spoken about. It was clear from the beginning of September this year that an energy crisis is taking place and will take place in the world. It was clear that there would be a rapid leap in electricity and gas prices. It was clear to almost everyone, with the exception of the government, which at about the same time drafted its own national budget. No measures were envisaged to combat the sharp increase in energy prices. The government had completely laid down this at least at the beginning of September. Members of the “Republic” party immediately sent questions to Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš - both questions about what is happening to the gas storage (whether there are sufficient gas stocks in Incukalns) and what the government plans to do due to the rapid increase in energy prices (primarily with support to the low-income, pensioners). The government then woke up and decided to support so-called protected users. At least this part of their homework has been done by the government, which we can recognise. However, it was clear to us in September that perhaps the only most effective and simple way to help households, how to depreciate this price rise effect for people, citizens, how to prevent the development of... or at least to damp inflation, reduce the rate of value added tax for electricity and natural gas. Since September, we, members of the Republic, have already tabled three proposals to reduce the value added tax rate on electricity and natural gas (this is the fourth time). Every time, the majority of the Saeima... The coalition rejected these proposals. It is mid-December, but the government still does not have a clear offer to help households. One option is offered, then another option, now another 13 options. After all, I think no decisions have been taken on the substance of today, no laws are being amended. 1 January is not as far away, the government's actions - as a minimum - are extremely late. Those decisions which had to be taken by October at the latest cannot still be taken by the government. The most interesting thing is that, at least when it comes to electricity, the government has all the possibilities if not fully offset, then very much depreciate the effect of these rising prices, because we can have 70-80 percent of electricity generation... We usually provide ourselves with hydropower, with TEC. If we are talking about hydro power plants, the cost of electricity is zero. If we are talking about TEC, then if Latvenergo bought gas and Inčukalns gas was pumped up to September even at the old prices, it means that the cost actually did not have to change. This means that, by its very nature, the government has every opportunity to compensate to a large extent... depreciate the effects of these increasing bills to people. Will all of the government's solutions that you have heard about do so now? I think that every Latvian citizen will be able to make a self-conclusion when receiving an invoice in January, if all these “movements” have helped him. I call for support to be given to the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U9	“Pret” has applied to speak to Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U10	Good morning, dear colleagues! I just wanted to... I was a little confused because I thought that Ilze Indricsone was quite well explaining what the government was doing at the previous draft law, so that we in the Saeima should not listen to what... It's the first time that... You shouldn't go round all the time. Of course, the title of the draft law may be changed and drafts of the same law may be submitted even five times, even 10 times. Mr Dombrovskis said that this must have been the fifth of its series. It's not the big art of being honest. But thank you, Mrs. Indicice, who also boldly told me what the government is doing, and I wish you every success... what to do, namely, in this follow-up work and also in relation to the work of the Saeima for us as legislator. Of course, when these prepared draft laws come from the government, which will be necessary to support citizens - and I think they will be - and I think they will be - then we, as Members - will have to take them as soon as possible, without questioning the expensive opposition, so that we can support the decisions that the government has taken. Since this is a fifth draft law from this series, we have already heard everything. I think that we no longer need to listen to this, but we are waiting for draft laws where Members will really have to work hard and sweaty backs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U11	Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax (No. 1257/Lp13) transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! On - 37, against - 48, refraining from - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” presented by the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Real Estate Tax” presented by the Commission of the State Administration and Municipalities be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “On the abolition of the legalisation requirement of documents by diplomatic agents or consular officers” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. And then - referral of the draft law to the commissions and discussion at first reading. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Detaining Persons” presented by the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Let us start with this at first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U12	Good morning, dear colleagues! The draft law was drafted due to the fact that the previous wording of Section 7 (4) of the Detained Persons Law provides that each detained person is provided with a separate bed, and paragraph 2 - bed accessories (matracy and blanket). Here there is a difference in the law with regard to other persons with reduced freedom of movement, i.e. those sentenced and arrested without a blanket are also granted a cushion and a towel if necessary. It is also about the judgment of the Constitutional Court, and it is necessary to improve this regulation in order to align it with the rules of European prisons. Consequently, the commission has drawn up a draft law which provides that... Article 7, fourth paragraph, second paragraph, shall be replaced by the following:... The detention shall also be provided with a bed mattress. Paragraph 3 is expressed... that also provides a blanket and a cushion if the detention time includes rest. Paragraph 4 will further determine that a towel shall be issued to the detained person if necessary, namely if the towel has no towel with the detained person and is necessary for its use. I call for support to be given to the draft legislation drawn up by the Commission at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U13	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the law on the detention of persons in custody” at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U14	The deadline for submitting proposals for the second reading of the draft law - 30 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U15	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 30 December this year. On the agenda, under the heading ‘Conclusion of the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust’. Draft decision “On Dismissal of Judge Arvīds Ozerskas from the position of judge of Daugavpils court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U16	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 7 December, the draft decision “On the dismissal of Arvīds Ozerskas, a judge of Daugavpils court from the office of a judge” was reviewed. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I invite Arvīds Ozerskis, a judge of the Daugavpils court, to be released from office of a judge at his own wish from January 17, 2022.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U17	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Release of Arvīds Ozerskas, a Judge of Daugavpils court from the office of a judge”! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The decision ‘On the appointment of Agnese Adgeres as a judge of a district (city) court’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U18	At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 7 December this year, the draft decision ‘On the appointment of Agnese Adgeres as a judge of the district (city) court’ was considered. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on Agnese Adgeri to appoint a judge of district (city) court from 3 January 2022.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U19	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the appointment of Agnese Adgeres as a district (city) court judge! Please, let's vote! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The decision ‘On the appointment of Janis Kucenko as a judge of a district (city) court’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U20	At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 7 December, the draft decision on the appointment of Janis Kucenko as a judge of a district court was considered. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I invite Janis Kucenko to appoint a judge of district (city) court from January 3, 2022.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U21	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the appointment of Jānis Kucenko as a district (city) court judge”! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. The decision ‘On the appointment of Guntra Kuples as a judge of a district (city) court’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U22	At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 7 December this year, the draft decision ‘On the appointment of Guntra Kuples as a judge of a district (city) court’ was considered. The members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on Guntra Kupli to appoint as a judge of the district (city) court by 3 January 2022.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U23	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the appointment of Guntras Kuples as a district (city) court judge! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. The draft decision ‘On the appointment of Inga Pētersone as a judge of a district (city) court’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U24	At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 7 December, the draft decision ‘On the appointment of Inga Pētersone as a judge of a district (city) court’ was considered. The members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on Inga Pētersoni to appoint from January 3, 2022 as a judge of a district (city) court.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U25	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the appointment of Inga Pētersone as a judge of district (city) court”! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The President of the Republic of Crimea is hereby authorised to designate the person(s) empowered to sign the Agreement on behalf of the European Union and to sign the Agreement on behalf of the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on behalf of the Union. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U26	At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 7 December this year, the draft decision ‘On the appointment of Madara Storah as a judge of a district (city) court’ was considered. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I invite Madara Štorhu to be appointed judge of the district (city) court by 3 January 2022.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U27	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the appointment of Madara Storah as a district (city) court judge! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. The President of the Republic of Crimea and the President of the Republic are hereby authorised to designate the persons empowered to act on behalf of the Commission in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 13(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U28	At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 7 December this year, the draft decision ‘On the appointment of Vadim Terentyeva as a judge of a district (city) court’ was considered. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I invite Vadim Terentyeva to be a judge of a district (city) court by 3 January 2022.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U29	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the appointment of Vadim Terentyeva as a judge of district (city) court! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Decision adopted. The draft decision ‘On the appointment of Alice Trukšāne as a judge of a district (city) court’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U30	At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 7 December this year, the draft decision ‘On the appointment of Alice Trukšāne as a judge of a district (city) court’ was considered. The members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on Alisi Truksani to appoint from 3 January 2022 as a judge of a district (city) court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U31	Thank you for your report on behalf of the Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the appointment of Alice Trukšāne as a district (city) court judge! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft Law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on the Management of Infectious Effects” (No. 1255/Lp13), second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Ilze Indricksone.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U32	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has received six proposals in this draft law, and four more proposals have been added by combining two draft laws, because another draft law was submitted. 1. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Provision is made for an extension of the deadline for economic operators to submit energy audits under the Energy Efficiency Act, so that different penalties should not be applied during an emergency, because the corresponding... the circumstances do not enable them to carry out this task. The period shall be extended until 31 January 2022. The Commission has, of course, supported this proposal. I call on you to support this too.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U33	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U34	2. - the proposal by Members Svekova and Stepanenko. It is envisaged to exclude the proposed Article 8.2, which excludes the application of the minimum amount of national social security contributions from the date on which the employee is absent as a result of the fault of the employee, if he is also excluded from employment without wage retention. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U35	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U36	Good morning, colleagues! Thank you for your word. I would like to say that, according to the public reading, some 60 000 people have not carried out vaccination, and they are now also denied the possibility of continuing their work. The employer, logically, is not interested in putting people away and meeting the requirements accepted by the Cabinet of Ministers and accepted by the majority of politicians, to pay social charges for people who chose not to carry out vaccination. It must be understood that if the proposed norms defend the interests of employers, if they say that the employer will now be able not to pay social security contributions for those people who, for some reason, chose not to take vaccination, they will remain unemployed, they will remain without social contributions and without guarantees. I see very high risks in this regard. We are continuing to divide society, we are also continuing to weaken the social guarantees that people are entitled to on the basis of the criterion of whether or not a person has carried out vaccination. It seems to me that this is the way forward for the further division of society and the stratification of society. In my opinion, a country that demands compulsory vaccination and a place of employment... Provision should also be made for social protection mechanisms or otherwise incentives for people to carry out duties that are in the interest of the majority of society and not to throw people out, leave them out of work, no income, no social security. That is why I also put forward a proposal and offer it to support those colleagues who have human rights first and for whom the defence and representation of human interests is not empty sound, but the value of work and the duty of work. I am asking for support for the proposal that I have tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U37	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U38	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U39	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal put forward by Members Svekova and Stepanenko! Please, let's vote! On - 26, against - 47, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U40	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is planned to instruct the Cabinet of Ministers to determine the procedure and time limits within which the employer shall submit information about the employees who have been suspended and who are leaving. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U41	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U42	4. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. It is stated that the mandatory object of national social contributions is not calculated for all reference months in which an emergency situation occurs. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U43	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U44	The proposal is attached to this draft law from the draft law No 5. 1258/Lp13 and determine the payment of the aid benefit to children who have been granted subsidiary status. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U45	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U46	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I will talk about proposals 5 and 6 because both of them concern persons who have acquired alternative status. Already in spring, the Ombudsman addressed the Ministry of Welfare with an invitation to pay allowances to migrants who have been granted alternative status. And the Ministry of Welfare had already correctly indicated to whom the benefits were decided and why such a law had been created, and pointed out that no sign of discrimination had been found. A one-time allowance of 200 euros was decided to pay to persons living in Latvia who have been granted an old-age, disability or survivor's pension, compensation for incapacity for work and survivor's loss to the recipients of the state social security benefit, those who receive care allowance for children with disabilities or adults with disabilities, as well as 500 euros of support for each child in such cases... for those persons who have been granted a childcare allowance up to the age of one year, a family state allowance or a family state allowance for a disabled child. In addition, a person living in Latvia is entitled to a EUR 200 allowance. A person living in Latvia is one who actually lives in Latvia. Other persons who also belong to this category but did not reside in Latvia were not paid the allowance. In fact, when deciding on the payment of benefits to the alternative status beneficiaries... It's this law... extending the scope of beneficiaries and creating discrimination against other groups, so those who have been granted a pension here but who have moved and reside abroad. Even for children, although they were born here, but the state's family allowance is not here, the payment of EUR 500 was denied. By asking the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission about those persons who have acquired the status of alternative person - whether they will receive benefits here if they have left this country - the answer was: yes. So for migrants who have left this country but have obtained alternative status here, this benefit will be paid. Then there is the question why it will not be paid to those who live outside Latvia, but here they have lived and have a pension or children. There is also a question about students. There has been a proposal several times... and refused the same number of times so that students would also receive a grant of EUR 500... either up to 21 years of age or all students in general. Well, then, this vote will also be an attitude towards our student youth - which we support. Is it really more important for us to support those who have arrived here for various reasons, sometimes also the economic refugees and those seeking happiness. Let me remind you that one-off financial support for refugees or persons with alternative status... For an adult they are 278 euros and for a minor they are 194 euros. The monthly allowance for an adult is 139 euros per month and for a minor - 97 euros per month. It could also be compared to the amount of national family benefits that our children receive here. I call for neither proposal 5 nor proposal 6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U47	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U48	The Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U49	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - the proposal submitted by the committee responsible, accompanied by draft law No. 1258/Lp13! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U50	Proposal No 6 is also of a legislative nature. 1258/Lp13 - the attached proposal, which also lays down the procedure for paying benefits to an adult who is granted alternative status. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U51	Yes, but we have also been asked to vote in favour of this proposal. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - the proposal from the committee responsible, attached by draft law No. 1258/Lp13! Please, let's vote! No, 66, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U52	Proposal No 7 is also of a legislative nature. 1258/Lp13. Provision shall be made for determining the cases in which this benefit is granted twice. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U53	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U54	Proposal No 8 also comes from the draft law No. 1258/Lp13. The procedure for applying for this allowance shall be laid down when submitting an application. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U55	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U56	9. - the proposal by Members Svekova and Stepanenko. Provision shall be made for the exclusion of a paragraph supplementing the transitional provisions relating to the non-calculation of compulsory national social security contributions. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U57	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U58	Colleagues! This paragraph also relates to the paragraph rejected by the majority of the previous Members that an employer who has abandoned a worker from work without wage will no longer be able to pay compulsory social security contributions under the previously adopted amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection. As I have already mentioned, and I will repeat, there is in fact almost 60 000 people leaving without income, without work and without social guarantees. It's a responsibility... and it must also be clear to the public and to the Members who vote in favour of this action against 60,000 people. And then it will be necessary to clarify its position next year - in the next Saeima elections during the debate and discussions. Is 60,000 little or much? I think it's enough. The neglect of these people, given the rise in unemployment in Latvia - and this has risen recently - seems unacceptable to me. It is not a thoughtful and responsible step from either the Cabinet of Ministers or the majority of Saeima Members. Both this and the previous proposal have therefore been tabled. And I also tell you that the protocol leaves a discussion and an emphasis on the fact that people are unemployed, without social guarantees. They are practically thrown away from normal life. This is not right from a legal or human point of view or from a policy point of view as a whole. That is why I am asking you to support my proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U59	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U60	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U61	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - the proposal put forward by Members Svekova and Stepanenko! Please, let's vote! For - 12, for - 50, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U62	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The transitional provisions shall be specified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U63	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U64	11. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. It is envisaged to exclude from the transitional provisions a paragraph which has been transposed into the basic text of the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U65	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U66	We have examined all 11 proposals. I call for support to be given to the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U67	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the control of the spread of infection” (No. 1255/Lp13) in the second, final, reading! Please, let's vote! For - 72, for - 2 and for - 1. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, The political group SASKĀJA has submitted a report on the motives for voting in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” (No. 1255/Lp13). on behalf of the Group. - Member Igor Pimenov. Mr Pimenova, you must apply for electronic reporting of the motives for voting. Please, name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U68	Good morning, honourable Members! Honourable Members! ‘ The Group of the Social Democratic Party has voted in favour of the draft law ‘Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management’ (No. The adoption of the 1255/Lp13 for the following reasons: however, we support the draft law because we support proposals that have been moved from the draft law. 1258/Lp13, i.e.: granting the child’s parent, guardian, foster family if the child has been granted the alternative status and the aid has not been paid; granting the lump sum to an adult who has been granted the alternative status and the person has reached the age required for granting the old-age pension or if he or she has a certain disability; and granting the lump sum on a double basis if such a person is also granted the opinion of the National Commission of Health and Work Performance Experts on the need for special care. However, it is particularly important that the draft law, in fact, abolishes the application of the minimum national social security contributions for the entire period of transmission of Covid-19 infection. What has not been done by the political opposition has been a pandemic. As the emergency situation has been established between 11 October 2021 and 11 January 2022, the minimum contribution will not be calculated and the minimum contribution will not have to be paid by employers and self-employed workers for October, November, December and January 2022. Accordingly, employers and self-employed workers will not be required to make minimum compulsory contributions for the reference months during which the Cabinet has identified an emergency situation throughout the territory of the country. Although for a few months, the mechanism that forces small businesses to operate in the shadow economy is being suspended and the net income of self-employed workers will not be reduced at a time when their majority loses their customers. We are well aware that the non-application of minimum contributions for the days when the employee is absent due to his fault or suspended from work will motivate employers to put additional pressure on employees who do not want to hit the Covid-19, as well as to reduce their social savings. At a time when there is public health and people's lives in another cup of weights, this solution is, in our view, justified. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U69	Thank you. So we have heard the report on the motives for voting. Next - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U70	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, honourable Members! See the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child”. This draft law must be examined today in the third, final, reading. Draft law number - 736/Lp13. In the Commission, we worked in such a way that we tried to include as few proposals as possible in the table. We now have nine proposals. And let's start with proposal 1. 1. - the proposal of the committee responsible itself, namely the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, which provides for the exclusion of Article 1 of the draft law. And the reasoning is as follows. In the Saeima, on 11 November this year, we adopted amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child, and these criteria... no longer should they be in this law - the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child. Consequently, the Commission drew up its proposal to exclude Article 1 of the draft law. Please support 1. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U71	Thank you. The vote is requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs! Please, let's vote! For - 67, for - no, for - 3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U72	Thank you for your support. 2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This proposal is, to a certain extent, a key proposal where, for me personally (but on behalf of the Commission, I say), it seemed that we should withdraw from the Legal Office itself, but that is what we have here in this table. Dear Members, If the vote on this proposal is requested, I would ask you not to support you on behalf of the Commission. I see - yes, Mr Pouce has requested a vote. Dear colleagues, this proposal makes this adoption frame where we are talking about children's adoption abroad, more widely. We drew up a Commission proposal with a narrower frame and greater responsibility, and that is 3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Please, this proposal, which comes from the Legal Office and has previously remained in the course of the work... strongly reject and support the next Commission proposal. Please vote 'no' on this proposal, please Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U73	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The legal office's proposal! Please, let's vote! On - 13, against - 44, refraining from - 11. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U74	Thank you, dear colleagues, for listening to the commission. 3. - as I said - the proposal of the committee responsible, which also opens up this new frame. Let me explain a little. In particular, this proposal provides for the following arrangements to be made: "In the cases and procedures provided for in the law, a child may be adopted abroad bound by the Hague Convention of 29 May 1993 on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in International Adoptions, as well as the Convention on the Rights of the Child of 20 November 1989 with which Latvia has concluded a bilateral agreement establishing a mutual specificity of judicial cooperation in the field of foreign adoption. The child may be adopted abroad if the orphan's court, which has decided on extra-family care, receives the opinion of the Foreign Adoption Commission, which concludes that the process of adoption abroad complies with the principles of protection of the rights of the child and best interests of the child as laid down in this Law.’ Consequently, the criteria set for foreign countries wishing to adopt Latvian children will be the same in the future. Dear colleagues, there are several agreements at transnational level that should be implemented, happened and signed so that we give Latvian citizens to adoption outside Latvia. I must remind you, dear colleagues, that we are in the first place... On planet Earth... one million children in adoption cases in Latvia... in the world. That is, we give the most children to adoption... the most children away from our country... We're in the first place... It's for one million people... the global statistical survey. And here, colleagues, I also have to say the name of that country, the United States... We're in the 13th place... Before we have China, Ukraine, Colombia, India, South Korea, Bulgaria, Haiti, the Philippines, Liberia, Jamaica, Taiwan... and then is Latvia. But if we look at the population - one million people - in terms of population, then we are in the first place. Colleagues! There have been discussions here while Mr Puce was a minister; there have been discussions here in principle for six years... And here is now a very logical proposal from the Commission, which is also supported. Here, in this Commission proposal, there is also the inclusion of the Foreign Adoption Commission, which is to give its own report, a positive report, that we are... The commission has admitted... that really can give him to foreign adoption. The establishment of this commission is visible in the forthcoming proposals. But, honourable colleagues, let the speaker now speak, and I will then go on. This proposal has been supported. Please support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U75	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Juris Pucem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U76	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Highly respected colleagues! Dear colleagues, When I refer to this proposal, I would actually also like to express my attitude in general on the draft law that we have in our examination. We're... in fact, our association has expressed its attitude to... This is a negative attitude. This particular... Until now, those proposals with every reading have become more and more unspecific; from general bans on adoption and time-limits we have gone to set the norm... We have exactly written the norm... and we've had a discussion like this... and the rapporteur from the parliamentary troupe is now saying... which, in fact, is intended to be one... Why are these two specific international legal instruments, two conventions - so that Latvian children are not adopted to the United States. All the other countries that have ratified these two conventions (it is an absolute majority of the countries of the world, including those which are at the bottom of the world's rule of law) will be able to continue adopting children from Latvia, where we will believe that Latvian children are sufficiently protected, while our strategic ally, here, does not sufficiently protect children. That is the point of all the first parts of this rule, so the first orientation is to say that adoption to the United States should stop. Personally, it seems simply incomprehensible to me; what kind of signal Parliament wants to send with this is unclear. We have heard the motivation in several readings; personally, this is not acceptable to me. And I very much hope... I will vote against this proposal, I call for the vote against others as well. And I will also vote against this draft law if this, 3rd, proposal is supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U77	The name of Member Evita Hall-Gross.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U78	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Foreign adoption has begun to evolve since the end of the Second World War. In a war-depressed Europe, a large number of children were left without parents, but weakened countries were unable to take care of them. The second wave of foreign adoption was caused by the Korean war, and it began as a global humanitarian movement to save the children of the poor world. Because of the phenomena of today’s society, it has become... a viable solution. In recent years, the phenomenon of foreign adoption has developed as a way of helping children from the poorest countries in the world, where there was a threat to their lives or health. This process has been accompanied by discussions on ethical issues, as well as in recent world history, this phenomenon has been linked to child trafficking, abduction and other criminal consequences. This is why transnational adoption continues to decline in the world. The process was also driven by a pandemic, which forced countries to look for other solutions. Europe is characterised by a decline in local and foreign adoption. Children who are left without parental care are mainly living in foster families, guardianship or family-type institutions. Despite the high demand, adoption from other countries is decreasing in European countries, as more and more talk is about the fact that it is not possible to ensure the protection of children's rights in foreign adoption. This Commission proposal sets out three prerequisites for foreign adoption. The Hague Convention lays down an international procedure for adoption, a bilateral treaty - specific rules for adoption and supervision between specific countries, but the Convention on the Rights of the Child guarantees a framework of rights when a child enters the new country of residence. The adoption commission will also assess the suitability of the best interests of the child if one of the countries concludes a bilateral agreement, directly disapproving the rules of foreign adoption. At present, bilateral agreements on adoption are not specific to countries that are not interested in adopting our children. Article 21 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child provides that ‘adoption in another country may be considered as an alternative form of childcare where it is not possible for the child to be passed on to the parent or adoption or to provide other appropriate care in the child’s country of origin’. This Convention does not oblige Member States to adopt adoption as a form of special care. A Member State may develop family-based care tailored to its historical development and values. The Hague Convention provides that each country should take appropriate measures, as a matter of priority, to enable the child to remain in his or her country of origin. Until now, due to the lack of mechanisms for assessing children's interests in cases of international adoption, all possibilities to provide Latvian children with the opportunity to grow in the family environment and receive care in our country have not been sufficiently evaluated. Therefore, the most important thing is the fact that in this term of office we have adopted amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child, which precisely eliminates the best interests of children, and we have started the reform of the orphan courts by adopting amendments to the Law on the Barents. In the previous term, out-of-family care centres, crises and specialised families were set up. In this term, the Ministry of Welfare arranged the issue of maintenance benefits for guardians, as well as decided on additional funding for non-family care centres to provide adoptioners and guardians of social workers. Next year's priorities for the Ministry of Welfare - professional crisis for teenagers and long-term attraction-oriented care. We can and will do more, because we are a small country for whose self-confidence it is important to make bold decisions and, more importantly, to take responsibility rather than delegate it to others. As a member of the European Union and OECD, I am convinced that Latvia is able to take care of its children. That is why I am asking for support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U79	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U80	Hello, colleagues! This proposal, as well as the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child”, is unfortunately an attempt to ban the adoption of Latvian orphans to one country in the world, to the richest country of the world, to the United States. Why? This is motivated by the fact that, here, the Latvian orphan courts have no opportunity to test, follow the child’s life after he has been adopted. In the United States we are served as some terrible land where children are tortured, and that by not accepting this norm we will deny these children a happy life in their homeland - Latvia. Just invited - with a review of history, a review of post-war years - to consider whether Latvia really can't take care of its orphans. Unfortunately, Latvia cannot now take care of its orphans. I already explained at first reading that it is mainly children who are teenagers, children with disabilities who are not needed as family members here in Latvia for life. Yes, they are in foster families, but they will be in foster families only to adulthood. What happens to them next? Immediately after this proposal, there will be my proposal: to allow the orphans to exercise their right to state-guaranteed housing even after they reach the age of 24. What is happening now? By reaching the age of 18, this orphan is left alone and without almost any public support. All that the country can recommend to him - take our laws in your hands and read about what benefits, how much euro you can buy, how much euro you can cover, the cushion, the inventory, where you can write the application to the municipality to get compensation for the rent of the room, or how many years you will have to wait until you get your house. In the housing issues sub-committee and in the Public Administration and Municipal Commission we examined the statistics prepared by municipalities - the Latvian Municipal Union - on the situation with housing for the most vulnerable groups. This is precisely the problem of orphans, the provision of orphans with housing is first in all Latvia. First! However, the prospects that something will change are not yet there, because it is clear that, as electricity and heating prices rise, the prices for construction materials and construction as such will increase and therefore the state dream of how we will help to increase access to housing in Latvia may not be achieved in the coming years. But, of course, we want to look good and we want to ban the adoption of our children directly to the United States. Let them be adopted to Germany, to France, and to the United States by no means. In my opinion, this is absolutely irresponsible and does not correspond to the spirit of children's rights, that it is the rights and interests of the child - that is the priority that we must protect. And more. I would like to see the same energy and energy being used to study what is happening at the moment, during the pandemic, in our orphan courts, both Mrs Grass and our entire Social and Labour Commission. I'm talking about it because I followed one thing when one guy died of Mom. He doesn't have a father. There's been several weeks since the baby's mother died...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U81	Mrs Ločmele, you can ask for the time of the debate to be joined up.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U82	... And no man came to him. Please reject this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U83	Thank you. The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U84	Thank you. Dear colleagues, The situation is truly clear, and I cannot disagree with Mrs. Zalīte–Grosa that the situation is gradually improving, it is true, but there are still hundreds of children in Latvia who have no chance of living and growing up in a family environment. So it's a bitter fact. And as long as it is, you shouldn't... It is in the best interests of children that these children should not stop at all and prevent them from being adopted abroad. I will not repeat the arguments already raised by other Members. Indeed, the nature of this article is very simple: to ban adoption to the US, and that is all. In my view, the motivation here is made up of two points. The first is the view of children as a resource. We need our children ourselves - they will grow up, work, complete the budget, and so on. But, colleagues, people are not resources! And really... We repeat that the best interests of children must be guided and the best interests of children must grow up in the family and be loved and cared for, and we cannot now ensure this for all our children. This is a fact that must be acknowledged despite all efforts. And the second point that I cannot fully understand is that it is a very clear statement of distrust for our closest strategic partner. Do we really think that just because the United States did not accede to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, children will be at risk and child protection in the United States will be ensured at a lower level than in other countries, in all those third countries that are members of this Convention? It's an elegant way to say no, we're not going to give up, kids are our own... It is our capital, our human resources, and we have to decide how these children will live and what will happen to them. In my view, it is not humane, it is not in the best interests of children, and it is ultimately not in our relations with the US. If we really are serious... If we really regard the US as our main strategic partner, then the partner should trust. I call for the 'no' vote on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U85	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U86	Madam President, Colleagues and colleagues! Thank you for the debate. In fact, a colleague speaking on behalf of the Ministry of Welfare pointed out a number of things that can be deduced from this speech. First. Understandably, the Ministry of Welfare has not developed a system to help orphans, what to do with children who do not have parents at the moment, and... not to support closed actions with one country shows only such political short-sightedness. Consequently, I would like to say that the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare, while currently defending the proposal, would probably have obtained a report on the strategy and system of the Ministry of Welfare. I can say that there is no such aid. There are currently no targeted actions to help both orphans and families who could adopt children, including those with special needs. There is no such plan for the Latvian state; there is only a slogan: “Latvia, don’t return children!” These are empty words, without foundation. There are, by the way, a number of examples that show that the Ministry of Welfare has no idea how to solve problems or ideas how to work with the orphan court (or perhaps this institution is out of date) or how to manage the activities of the Centre for the Protection of the Rights of the Child to help children in different situations, including orphans. One example of this is that of the Noodles. There were only a few loud public shouts, I will allow you to say so, but there is no solution to this problem. Then it is even more important to talk about the solution to the problems of orphans, including specifying who to give and who to not grant the right to adopt Latvian children, who could, to some extent, be assisted by parents who consider it possible, but are not citizens of Latvia or are not citizens of Latvia. In any case, I call on the Ministry of Welfare to focus more on the situation currently taking place in the education system, whether it is used by orphans or by our children who are now older. Address and provide support - psychological support - for both young people and adolescents, look at what is happening in the education system, and do not interfere in an activity where you do not have a strategic plan. Mrs Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare, you do not have a strategic plan to do with adoption issues, what to do with the activities of the orphanage court or, I must say, at times, not exactly what to do. Tell us the plan, and then we will talk about amendments to the Law on the Protection of Children with adoption to other countries. I call for this proposal not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U87	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U88	Thank you. We are back to proposal 3. So this is a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, the committee responsible. A little bit reflecting on what Mrs Ločmele said - marked quite a large part of the complex programme that should be implemented, and this should happen. Boris Cilevič said that he was concerned about children and that there was no interest. On the contrary, Mr Cilevičs, there is no doubt about our children. There are a number of cases where these children are in a process of re-adoption in another country... they go further - to other families. Here they are taken by one family, taken there, and then there's a re-adoption. Consequently, there is no further control over what is happening to the child. Such cases have occurred. There have also been very good times when a child really lives in the family and everything is fine. He's been pretty. But to have at least some kind of feedback with this adoption, there is also a need for legal cooperation. No one has said that a country is bad or that a country is doing something that is not good for our country. Simply, let us all have the same rules. Ladies and gentlemen, please support 3. - a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U89	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the proposal of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs! Please, let's vote! For - 53, for - 23, for - 2. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U90	Thank you for your support, honourable Members. 4. - The proposal of the Members, Ms Grasses-Gross, Mr. Neighbour and Mr. Judine. This proposal is as editorial as the Foreign Adoption Commission is being set up, and it is about how it will be written on paper, what it will have in its name. This motion from Members is supported. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U91	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U92	Thank you. Next - 5. - Mrs Ločmele's proposal, which she spoke about in the previous debate. It's not supported by the Commission, but it's a proposal... Mrs Lochmele was not in the debate himself, Mr Cilevičs spoke, also representing Mrs Lochmele. In the Commission we concluded, we understood that, in parallel, this proposal was also dealt with by Mrs Lochmele... so, as a result of the action. The Ministry of Welfare explained the following to us. And I will now read to us all this in the minutes: 'At the meeting of the Commission, the representatives of the Ministry of Welfare explained that during this year, since the proposal was put forward, the issue was, in substance, discussed and incorporated into the special law dealing with housing provision - 'On assistance to the housing issue'. The proposed clarification is not necessary in the Law on the Protection of Children’s Rights.” This proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U93	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U94	Hello! Thank you to Mr Kaimiņš for having responded to the argument that was made at the commission meeting. Yes, this issue has been partly resolved, at least in the legal dimension, and it was thanks not to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, but to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government. Yes, when considering amendments to the law “On Assistance in Meeting the Issues of the Apartment”, we specifically considered orphans and specifically analysed the practices that currently exist in Latvian municipalities regarding orphans’ applications, because as it turned out, some municipalities specifically interpret the norm of the law, which restricts access to housing by reaching the age of 24. Yes, thanks to very serious work, including with the Ministry of Welfare, we clarified this issue and put it (A sound break.) ... But I do not see any obstacle to the inclusion of this provision in the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child, in order to strengthen the possibility for orphans to claim housing even after they have reached the age of 24. I don't even think... and I call on all Latvian municipalities, all municipal members to pay very, very serious attention to this issue. I beseech you with all your heart - be with these people also when they have grown up in accordance with Latvian law! These are special people. These orphans, like people with disabilities, will be children who have been given attention since childhood. Shouldn’t treat them like this: “You’re grown up, go and swim yourself!” No, no. It is by going out that Latvia must take care of all its children, it must take special care of its special children, orphans. I am asking for support for my proposal and, in this way, for this legislative provision, which will determine the spirit itself, as in other laws, both on social assistance and on the rules and obligations of local authorities to be implemented on the ground in the regions, so that there is a legal basis to help these special children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U95	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U96	Thank you. Mrs. Lochmele, you may have misunderstood me. I did not think that this proposal was addressed in the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. The work you have contributed really was within the Social and Labour Commission, and I thank you for your work. But this proposal was not supported by the Commission. Please reject.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U97	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Mrs Ločmele's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 20, for - 39, for - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U98	Next - 6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. I'm heard?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U99	Both visible and audible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U100	Thank you. The next item is the proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is partly supported and included in the next - 7. - the Commission's proposal. This draft law has been in the Commission for no month, so there is no reason to support this proposal, as it is about the calendar time: ‘The legislation applicable to adoption cases initiated before 4 December 2020...’. We are already in December 2021. Therefore, honourable colleagues, please reject this if, in the case of a request for a vote, if not, let us go further.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U101	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U102	Thank you, colleagues. Let's go. Next - 7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is supported. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U103	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U104	Thank you. Next - 8. - our colleagues, former colleagues... let the sand light to Mrs. Ixten! In the Commission, the proposal was not supported. This is about the time period, which... In practice... It is no longer possible to realize this in life, because Member Ikstena offered December 31, 2021, and here we can in no way be able to save or develop any regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers in this field. The proposal is therefore not supported. Please do not support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U105	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - the proposal tabled by Member Ixten! Please, let's vote! For - 18, for - 42, for - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U106	The last one is 9. - a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. On when the law enters into force. We have agreed... In the Commission, both the Ministry of Welfare and the Ministry of Justice, which is responsible for draft laws of this kind, have promised us... on its capacity to enforce and that the law will be in a position to enter into force on 1 July 2022. Please support this Commission proposal for the entry into force of the law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U107	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U108	Thank you. Thus, honourable Members, we have examined completely all the proposals that were contained in the draft law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child (No. 736/Lp13). Please support the draft law as a whole at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U109	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child” in the third, final, final, reading! Please, let's vote! For - 59, for - 18, for - 2. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, Time for notification. Dear colleagues, Today's anniversary is celebrated by our colleague, Member of the Saeima, politician and guardian Rihard Coll, and we welcome him! Thank you. There's also a record of Members. It's over. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U110	Dear Members, Honourable Members! We shall continue the examination of the agenda of the remote extraordinary sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 16 December 2021 after a break. On the agenda - under the heading ‘Handling draft laws’. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U111	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Colleagues! See the first reading of the draft law amending the law on agriculture and rural development. The draft law is designed to ensure compliance with the European Union's directly applicable regulations in the field of the common organisation of agricultural markets with regard to producer groups and organisations, interbranch organisations and agricultural quotas; to establish and integrate the system of agricultural land management in the State Crop Monitoring Information System (KUVIS) and give the authority to the Cabinet of Ministers to issue rules for the implementation of the system; third to strengthen cooperation with non-governmental organisations in the field of agriculture; fourth to comply with the minutes of the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of 5 February 2013... No The 13th task. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U112	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development! Please vote mode! No, 69, against and refrains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U113	30 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U114	So there are no other proposals. The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 30 December 2021. On the agenda of the next sittings - Draft Law Amending the Law “On Specially Protected Natural Areas”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Gatis Zamurs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U115	Hello, chair and colleagues! In the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy we have examined the draft law “Amendment to Law “On Specially Protected Natural Areas”” (No. 1220/Lp13). The draft law is designed to prevent the European Commission’s reasoned opinion in infringement case No. It is indicated that Latvia has not complied with its obligations under Article 4(4) of the Council Directive on the conservation of natural habitats and of wild fauna and flora. In its reasoned opinion, the Commission stated that Latvia had not set general and long-term specific conservation objectives for any of the 328 protected areas of European interest (Natura 2000). In the Commission, the draft law is supported, please also by the Saeima at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U116	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Specially Protected Natural Areas”! Please vote mode! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U117	The deadline for submitting proposals is 30 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U118	So no other proposals have been received here. The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 30 December 2021. Thank you. The next item on the agenda of the sittings is the bill "Acclamation Law", second reading. On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government - Member Juris Pūce. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U119	Hello, very honourable chair of the sitting! High honourable Members! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. We work with Law No. 1167/Lp13. For the second reading, the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has received two proposals, examined them and prepared them for consideration in the Saeima as well. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is by nature a proposal for a legal technique. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U120	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U121	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. This clarifies the wording of the third paragraph of Article 10... more clearly. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U122	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U123	The proposals received have therefore been examined. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U124	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Warning Law”! Please vote mode! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U125	The Commission agreed on a deadline of five days for the submission of proposals, 21 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U126	There are no other proposals for a deadline. The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is therefore 21 December 2021. Thank you. On the agenda of the next sitting - Draft law amending the law on police (No. 1120/Lp13), second reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U127	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Good afternoon, honourable colleagues and audiences and audiences! No proposals were received for the second reading of the draft law on police. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U128	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Police”! Please vote mode! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third, final, reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U129	The deadline for submitting proposals is five days, 21 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U130	The deadline for the third final reading of the proposals is 21 December 2021. Thank you. Next - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Police”” (No. 1134/Lp13), second reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U131	The second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Police”” received one proposal - from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior Šteina. This provides for the addition of the second paragraph of Article 5, after the word ‘conviction’, with the words ‘or other discriminatory features of persons’. In the view of the Ministry of the Interior, the catalogue of prohibited criteria contained in Section 5(2) of the Law “On Police” is not comprehensive, it does not include all possible forms of discrimination, including because of sexual orientation and gender identity. In view of the fact that the scope of the features of discrimination contained in that provision is narrower than that enshrined in the Constitution, it is therefore necessary to clarify it accordingly in the form of an open rule. The Commission had a wide-ranging debate. One of the conclusions was to continue improving the norm to the third reading and to resubmit, which will also be done. And as a result, most of the Commission's proposals were rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U132	So Members have asked for a vote on this proposal. Please call me! We will vote on the proposal submitted by Mārtiņš Steinas, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior! Please vote mode! -19, against -54, refrains - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U133	I call on the Saeima to support amendments to the law on police at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U134	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Police”! Please vote mode! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third, final, reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U135	The Commission decided to set a deadline of two weeks for the submission of proposals, 30 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U136	The deadline for submitting proposals is therefore 30 December 2021. Thank you. On the agenda of the next sitting - Draft Law Amending the Law on the Processing of Aircraft Passenger Data, second reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U137	The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption also examined amendments to the Air Passenger Data Processing Law at second reading. Three proposals have been received by the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, which clarify the norms and make technical and editorial corrections. All the proposals have been supported. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U138	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U139	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U140	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U141	And also 3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U142	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U143	I call on the Saeima to support this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U144	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Aircraft Passenger Data”! Please vote mode! It's not about 80, it's against 1, it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third, final, reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U145	The deadline for the submission of proposals for the third reading is five days or 21 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U146	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is therefore 21 December 2021. Thank you. The next item is the draft law on immigration, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Edwin Šnore. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U147	Hello, dear colleagues! The Committee on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption has therefore discussed the draft law on immigration at its meeting on 8 December (No. 1176/Lp13) for first reading. This vast document aims to create a balanced system of entry and residence for foreigners, which is in line with the interests of the Republic of Latvia. In the area of residence permits, the draft provides for a number of significant differences from the current legislation. First of all, the project aims to issue only one type of permanent residence permit, granting long-term resident status in the European Union. There are currently two types of permanent residence permits. No provision excluded from the draft law providing for temporary residence permit to be granted to foreigners who either buy real estate or invest in credit institutions. At the same time, it is foreseen that foreigners who have received such residence permits under the old regime may request them again, provided that the investment continues to exist and the person has made the necessary payments. In the case of refugees, it is planned that they are granted a residence permit for six years, and for persons with alternative status for two years, thus changing the current legal framework and reducing the administrative burden for both foreigners and Latvian institutions. The Commission decided to support the draft law in a conceptual way and also asked the Saeima to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U148	So we are starting a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U149	Colleagues, thank you for the opportunity to express your views. This draft law includes a number of substantive matters and introduces further restrictions on investment in real estate and subordinated bonds, respectively, to obtain a temporary residence permit. It is time to say that since its introduction, the programme has helped the economy and the economy to obtain additional funds to be used for social needs, education, culture, as well as other necessary measures in the Latvian economy during a very critical and difficult economic crisis. Whether the solutions proposed by the current draft law are in line with the very active modern business relocation model, very fast and mobile capital flow deviations and directions, or whether they are in line with and are also competitive in relation to the model currently in place in Estonia - I did not develop such conviction with the draft law or with the annotation. I can only see that there are unanswered questions relating to the start-ups, the work of the start-ups. I also took note of the presentation by the Investment and Development Agency of Latvia in May on capital flows and the possible transfer of IT sector companies from Belarus to Latvia, and it is clear that several very serious companies and companies chose the relocation location from Belarus to Lithuania, Ukraine and even Portugal. What does that mean? That means the problem... including those indicated by the Investment and Development Agency of Latvia in its report and presentation, were related to the visa regime, the authorisation regime and its regulation. I did not see solutions in the proposed draft law. It should be noted that Estonia is one of the first places in setting up start-ups in the territory and developing start-ups. Why is this country, which is smaller than Latvia in terms of both territory and number of people, capable of collecting much more taxes, as well as employing people in this way, ensuring higher salaries for officials, higher... the cost of medical services and higher quality of life for their citizens? It's precisely because this country is realizing a consistent, smart... including a very modern immigration policy. And I have to say that the Estonian system, which has been established... also a special start-up visa, which is a very effective tool for inviting... and to develop economic aspects in a country that automatically means higher taxes, higher incomes and more investment in economic development. Does the solution proposed to Latvia provide for similar or competitive instruments - like a start-up visa in Estonia? I didn't see them here. I have read that the Minister for the Interior is planning to introduce so-called "Garden visas", an analogue to start-up visas, a digital travel document, but I have not found such solutions in this draft law. Despite the fact that the draft law contains a number of other things that align legislation with the requirements of the European Union and also definitions, and which also correspond to a number of things that are the use of modern and more legally correct terminology in the law as such, there are also unthinkable and uncompetitive things that could significantly worsen Latvia's position in the context of economics and additional taxes. I will therefore personally vote against this draft law and believe that the law should not only support the application of clear definitions, but also ensure a consistent, understandable and modern range of solutions with entry, exit... and the retention authorisation mechanism. This draft law, in my view, is not so, so I will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U150	I closed the debate. Mr. Schnore, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U151	Yes, on behalf of the Commission, I can say that all these issues, which Mrs Švekova mentioned here too, were discussed in the Commission. With regard to the first argument, which was that, therefore, these temporary residence permits for real estate and investments in banks... that they thus provide great support to the Latvian economy and should therefore not cease them. We have now assessed this in the commission quite in detail and in several sittings, and we have come to the conclusion that the benefits (and also purely material benefits) are constantly decreasing every year and the administrative costs of keeping this program alive are actually covered or sometimes even higher than the material benefits, not to mention all the side effects that are... as they say, there is no material and must also be taken into account. Consequently, the Commission even wrote a letter to the Cabinet of Ministers separately, asking that these norms be excluded. As for other points that may be improved by this law, there will be a second reading, and everyone is welcome to submit their proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U152	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on immigration. Please vote mode! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U153	The deadline for submitting proposals is February 28 next year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U154	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is therefore 28 February 2022. Thank you. The next item is the draft law amending the Law on Arms Movement, second reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U155	Welcome again. The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption has also examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Arms Movement” for the second reading. In the second reading, two proposals were received by the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva, to clarify the rules. 1. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Golubeva. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U156	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U157	And also 2. - the proposal by the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U158	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U159	I call on the Saeima to decide on its support for this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U160	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Arms"! Please vote mode! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third, final, reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U161	The Commission proposes to set a deadline of five days for the submission of proposals, 21 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U162	The deadline for the third final reading of the proposals is 21 December 2021. Thank you. The next item is the draft law amending the Law on Consumer Protection, second reading. Member Viesturs Liepkalns on behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U163	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy for the second reading examined draft law “Amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection” (No. 1179/Lp13). I would remind you that the draft law was designed to establish consumer rights in the case of the purchase and supply of digital content and digital collections, thereby contributing to a higher level of consumer protection in the digital field. The Commission received six proposals for a second reading in total. 1. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau to replace the words "use of goods and services" in Article 1(3), with the words "use of goods, services, digital content or digital service". The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U164	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U165	2. - Proposal by Ilze Indricksone, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. It provides for supplementing Article 2.1 with the sixth paragraph of the Law by providing that EU and national legislation on personal data protection applies to any personal data processed in connection with concluded contracts. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U166	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U167	3. - Proposal by Ilze Indricksone, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. It provides for the addition of Section 4.1, third paragraph, and points 12 and 13, by stating that the requirements of the law do not apply to health services and social services. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U168	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U169	4. - Proposal by Ilze Indricksone, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. The proposal corrects the technical error by asking for the seventh paragraph of Article 4.1 of the previous amendment to be excluded and by adding an eighth paragraph to the article. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U170	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U171	5. - Proposal by Ilze Indricksone, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. It provides for the addition of Article 4.1 of the Act to the ninth part necessary for the establishment of exceptions for material media used exclusively as media for digital content. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U172	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U173	And the last one is 6. - Proposal by Ilze Indricksone, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. This provides for the addition of the 13th, 14th and 15th paragraphs of Article 20 of the Law. This relates to the transposition of the European Union directive. In the process of harmonising the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers it was established that the transposition of the relevant provisions of directives would be more effective and it would be more understandable for the consumer and the businessman to be included in the law. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U174	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U175	Dear colleagues, We have examined all the six proposals submitted for this draft law. On behalf of the Commission, I also ask the Saeima to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U176	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection". Please vote mode! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U177	The deadline for submitting proposals is 30 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U178	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is therefore 30 December 2021. Thank you. The first reading of the draft law on the entry and residence of citizens of the Union and their family members in the Republic of Latvia. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Edwin Šnore. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U179	At its meeting on 8 December this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined draft law “Law on the Entry and Residence of Citizens of the Union and Their Family Members in the Republic of Latvia” (No. (See page 1177/Lp13) for first reading. The draft law is designed to determine the conditions of entry and residence of citizens of the European Union and their family members in the Republic of Latvia. Initially, the entry and residence issues of European Union citizens and their family members were to be included in the draft law on immigration, but its development showed that it would be more appropriate to develop two draft laws because the rules governing the entry of third-country nationals and citizens of the European Union and their family members are too different. This draft law has now been drafted, the commission of which has conceptually supported and is asking the Saeima to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U180	So Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on the entry and residence of citizens of the Union and their family members in the Republic of Latvia! Please vote mode! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U181	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 28 February 2022.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U182	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is therefore set at 28 February 2022. Thank you. The next item of the agenda for the sitting of the Saeima - Examination of draft decisions. On the agenda - draft decision “On Cabinet of Ministers Order of 1 December 2021 No. 909, as amended by Order No 909 of 9 October 2021. 720 ‘Advertising the Emergency’. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Ivan Klementjev. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U183	Hello, dear colleagues! We work with Cabinet of Ministers Order No. 1 December 2021 909, as amended by Order No 909 of 9 October 2021. 720 Promulgating an emergency. The order provides for street sales... where it is intended to lift the ban on the organisation of street sales, to re-establish their activities within the framework of a trade protocol based on the principles and conditions set out below. For example, the organisation of street sales takes place in an epidemiologically secure environment. All other epidemiological safety requirements - information to visitors, basic hygiene principles, social distance, organization of human flows, facial masks and so on. And the distance between trading venues is set at two metres. A physical demarcation of the site for the organisation of street sales and verification of the vaccination or congestion certificate shall be ensured for visitors at the point of entry into the site of the organisation of street sales in order to prevent persons who do not meet the conditions of an epidemiologically safe environment from being present at the site of the organisation of street trade. It is also foreseen that one visitor is provided with at least 10 square metres from the area of the territory of organisation of street trade. The municipalities shall determine the maximum number of trading participants. Organisation of entertainment, entertainment and live music during the marketing period shall not be allowed. At the same time, the right to place a thematic exhibition, such as an artwork, an animal, provided that the two-metre distance is respected between individual visitors or members of different households. Provides two levels... a responsible person appointed by the trade operators to monitor the flow of visitors... and also from the municipality... and the State Police. There are also changes in the provision of education of interest and vocational guidance in the most secure environment. The amendments provide for the addition of Order No. 720 with point 5.32.1 as regards the general conditions for the implementation of these educational programmes, establishing the minimum space space for each education, ventilation requirements, group numbers of students, testing of learners. Among other things, the proposed amendments show that the number of learners per group does not exceed 20 persons, but that if a programme of interest or professional orientation is implemented in the same group, class or course of basic or secondary education for learners in the same educational establishment indoors, the requirement of number of students does not need to be met. As the self-tests, which are gradually introduced into the education system and will replace the salivary tree community tests currently organised in educational institutions, do not provide proof of the result of the test, it will not be necessary to provide evidence to learn the said educational programmes. The amendments provide that for learners who have not been fully vaccinated or who have been overloaded by the Covid-19, the study of the programme of interest and professional orientation takes place at a distance or on-the-spot level, when the learners have conducted routine screening tests in formal education on an individual basis. As regards pre-school age learners it should be noted that routine screening is not carried out for these learners, therefore pre-school learners are entitled to participate in education programmes at a distance or in person, including outside their pre-school institutions, as well as in a group at their educational institution, both indoor and outdoor. Order... The draft provides for amendment of Cabinet Order No. Paragraph 720 5.38, setting out the conditions to be met when organising children's camps and thus the number of children in the group (up to 20 members). At the same time, the presence of several groups is possible in one location, but it is only possible in cases where it is fully ensured that the members of these groups and the staff involved do not meet with each other during the entire period of the camp. In order to ensure safety measures and to mitigate the risks of virus transmission, a number of standards are laid down which lay down strict conditions for camp members, including operations... Children from the age of 12 will only be able to participate in the camp if they hold a vaccination or congestion certificate which they present to the camp manager or the person responsible designated by him. The testing of personnel. There's also a change that... provides for the possibility for employers to carry out on-site testing of all workers on the Covid-19 in order to ensure an epidemiologically safe environment. Given the gradual spread of the new type of SARS-CoV-2 virus in the world (and also in European countries) over the last few days... In order to reduce as far as possible the introduction of this virus into the territory of Latvia, it is necessary to provide for testing of persons entering the territory of Latvia (including through vaccination or congestion certificates). Since the international carrier... sheep... A large number of people are in close contact with the buses, trains and ferries, it is stated that the migrants have the opportunity to carry out the Covid-19 test at Riga Airport on a voluntary basis. At the same time, it is provided that airport employees (officials), State Border Guard, State Police staff have the right to indicate the obligation to carry out Covid-19 test and the person is obliged to comply with this indication. However, it would be necessary in situations where it would be necessary to test the Covid-19 for arrivals from specific countries... During the period of operation of this order at the airport passenger service agent, representatives of the State Border Guard or the State Police shall have rights and obligations, except in certain cases... request passengers to carry out the SARS-CoV-2 virus RNA detection test in the territory of Riga International Airport. This condition shall also apply to passengers holding a valid interoperable certificate. Thus, when entering the Republic of Latvia, a person is obliged to carry out, at the request of the passenger service agent of Riga Airport, the State Border Guard or the State Police representative in the territory of the airport, the test referred to in subparagraph 5.59.1 of this Order. The test shall be carried out free of charge. The minimum requirements for testing prescribed by the Order shall not be applied by the Cabinet of Ministers of 28 September 2021 No. 662 ‘Estimative safety measures to limit the spread of Covid-19 infection’ for the categories of persons set out in point 167. To ensure that staff who have vaccinated but have not yet received the vaccination certificate for various objective reasons... specify the transitional period for obtaining a vaccination certificate for the purpose of carrying out the duties. Point 19 of the Ordinance provides that the condition referred to in point 5.2 of the Ordinance concerning the time limit for obtaining a vaccination or congestion certificate until 15 November 2021 and the condition referred to in point 5.3 of the Ordinance concerning the performance of duties from 15 November 2021, where the worker holds a vaccination or congestion certificate, shall not apply to workers who began vaccination before 15 November 2021 and no later than 15 December 2021.... according to the instructions for use of the vaccine. But... either, as we know, the certificate can only be obtained 14 days after the second vaccination, which means that it takes effect... Only on 29 December is the deadline for obtaining the vaccination certificate. And the last one. As a result of the entry into force of the new framework, workers who have been suspended or for whom a derogation has been granted since the vaccination started by 15 November 2021, while an interoperable vaccination certificate could not be obtained by 15 December 2021... a suspension or termination order shall be revoked and the staff member shall commence the performance of his duties at the time when the order is cancelled and, accordingly, the payment of his salary shall be resumed for such staff member only as soon as the order is revoked and the staff member has commenced the performance of his duties. It shall be indicated that no remuneration shall be paid for the period during which the staff member has been suspended or terminated. No remuneration shall be payable because the staff member did not perform his duties during suspension or termination. This is all about the draft decision. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this amendment to the order.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U184	We launched a debate on the draft decision. The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U185	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Hello, colleagues! Hello, listeners and viewers! It is essential to understand that these orders, which come from the Cabinet of Ministers and impose very great restrictions on citizens and the state, must be both legally correct and discussed with the public, with cooperation partners. There's nothing to say about this at the moment, because... like any draft law, is accompanied by a document such as an annotation. I allow there are very few Members who... is not present or does not work for this commission... pay attention to this document. And it has been a number of times, when you get acquainted with the annotation, you have to face a very lax attitude both to legislation and to this order of the Cabinet of Ministers for various combinations, and to what effect this order will have on society. By opening up an annotation and reading this document, we are disappointed because in a very large number of positions where this document should be reconciled to society, we see that there are just a couple of words - that this will have no impact on society, there will be no impact on economic activity... practical, well, as innocent as... I don't know... spoons of potato starch. Therefore, I have a call for colleagues - please start requesting quality documents from the Cabinet of Ministers. That's first. Second round. We have already experienced various actions with these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 360, which at the end... grow from a few leaves to more than a hundred leaves. The same fate awaits these... 720, which is already very thick, with countless amendments, and once again the same effect has been achieved that these documents are read only by lawyers and also... not everyone understands what is mentioned there. Colleagues! I call once again for these amendments to the Cabinet Order not to be approved, to return them to the Cabinet of Ministers and to suspend this Cabinet Order at all. 720 until good legislative practice is put in place... until there is an annotated, how it should be, until the whole impact on society, on the budget, on other areas of public interest has been assessed. We are currently working on documents that are very, very poor quality. Colleagues! These documents now look like... I have to say that: documents that are not in line with the legislation. These documents make us, Members, as puppets in the hands of ministers, in the hands of officials, because they rely on us not to read these documents, but we have to read them because we are saying our final name. Colleagues! Once again, I call on you not to support these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, to return to the Cabinet of Ministers, so that these people arrange this document as necessary, create an annotation according to the law, draw up orders that are understandable to any citizen, not just lawyers... And also, only a few. I call for these amendments not to be supported and for them to be sent back to the Cabinet for recycling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U186	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U187	Dear colleagues, This order was made in the Cabinet for a very long time because there was a need to decide whether or not to allow Christmas markets. Only when Estonia officially announced that they would organise the Christmas markets - only then did the Cabinet begin to examine the matter and yet allowed the Christmas markets to be organised. But since it was too late, those who organized the Christmas market that traditionally had been in Dome Square for years... Unfortunately, it was too late, and they refused to organise a traditional Christmas in the Dome Square, where people could have enjoyed it all - the Christmas atmosphere, peace, love... and enjoy the joy we haven't had in the last two years. It's like... We think very slowly and do not think about the step we need to take - one, two or three steps forward. We need to think about what's going to happen in two weeks, in one month. Like we've got... In the Cabinet of Ministers, too... its strategic thinking, organisation, but, well, I guess, there are not those people who can make their decision. Also, for example, what I mentioned in my report... also point 5.32.12., which provides that ‘the ventilation of spaces with a mechanical ventilation system or natural ventilation shall be ensured so that the level of carbon dioxide (CO2) does not exceed 1000 ppm but, if this is not possible, within an astronomical hour of at least 15 minutes of fresh air flow to the space’. During the meeting of the Commission, I asked Edgar Sever, representative of the Ministry of Education and Science, whether there are any gauges in sports schools or interest education or gyms? He replied that - yes, there are some sports halls, but there are not everywhere. However, I am sure there is nowhere, I never saw it. And there's evidence of this. We dealt with this order during the meeting of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption on 7 December, but just a week later, on 14 December, the Cabinet decided to allocate EUR 4.3 million for the purchase of air quality meters in schools. And since the money is issued, they will be bought at the earliest... maybe only next year... Only when children come back from schools... That means... You see how - we took an order or a decision, but we cannot do it. We can only traditionally open the window and ventilate. If I ask... We also have a farm unit in the Saeima... whether we have the measuring device with which we can, for example, if the Saeima returns to its sitting in January... The answer to this must be that - no, we don't still have. I thought so. Well, I guess so. It would be time to deliver on those holidays so that we can also have a meter at the Saeima so that we can see how it looks and what our air meets... The Saeima is sitting in the Chamber at least. I therefore call for this draft decision not to be supported and for it to be returned to the Cabinet of Ministers and for it to be prepared with a much higher quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U188	The name to the Member, Maris Mozhville, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U189	Thank you for your word. There are some detailed technical details that should also be known to colleagues, audiences and viewers. First. I have asked the Ministry of Health on several occasions at the Commission's sittings about the level of vaccination to be achieved in order to end restrictions, the division of people between vaccinees and unvaccinated ones. What is the percentage to be achieved? In the spring, it was 70 percent - then the immunity of the crowd is coming. Now, however, we are talking about 90, 92, 95 percent. So there is no plan at which this community's madness will end. Secondly. I called on the Commission to look at the fact that maybe we deserve to be guided by the Swedish option. On that, Mr Perevosčikov showed data comparing Latvia and Sweden. In this comparison, we saw the true picture. In Sweden the risk group ‘60+’ has been vaccinated for 90 plus... interest. This is much less for us. In Sweden, however, from the age of 15... up plus years... have been vaccinated much less than we do, we are almost the leaders in this regard. I have a question: at which point will we pay attention to the right risk groups and come to an end, let us stop expelling the working people from the country? It is already known that 62 thousand will be forced... if not all of them, at least a third of them will leave the country... Right now. Colleagues, let us not support this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U190	The debate is closed. Mr. Clementyev, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U191	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that the Commission supports the promotion and adoption of this draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U192	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On Cabinet of Ministers Order of 1 December 2021 No. 909, as amended by Order No 909 of 9 October 2021. 720 “Advertising the Emergency”! Please vote mode! - 51, against - 24, abstaining - not. Decision adopted. Dear Members and honourable Members, I would like to inform you that the Saeima Bureau has received a request from Member Juris Pūce, Krista Baumane, Gata Zamura, Mārtiņš Steinas and Viesturs Liepkalns to declare a break at this parliamentary remote extraordinary meeting on 16 December. In particular, the request reads: “Please declare a break on the agenda of the remote extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 16 December prior to the examination of the draft decision “On distrust to the Minister of the Interior Marija Golubeva” for 15 minutes.” We must decide on this request by voting. No one has applied to talk about or against. So... Please! Member Aldis Gobzem wants to talk... ‘for’ or ‘to’?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U193	Colleagues! My request is... Well, considering that "Development/About!" calls for an actual break for 15 minutes, there is a big question: will the hearing take place for 15 minutes or will it continue for one and a half hours, as usual? Maybe the Seimas Bureau could tell you how to do that? Because if it's another 15 minutes, then I won't have enough... Explain in 15 minutes the reasoning behind the request for resignation.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U194	You talked about it or about it?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U195	Oh, I'm saying 'no'.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U196	Thank you. So one Member has spoken against. Members have not applied to speak about it. The decision must be taken by vote. Please vote mode! So let us vote for the adjournment at the sitting for 15 minutes! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So a break must be announced at the sitting. In answer to Member Gobzem's question of breaks in the Saeima sittings, we, unless there are any exceptional circumstances, always stick to these breaks, and the initial breaks, also in the face of changes... possible exceptional breaks are kept. I would also like to inform you that the Fraction Council has been convened at 12.35. Since the Council of Group has been convened and has to adopt the items on its agenda... By decisions, this break at 12.30 a.m. will also have to be announced. Consequently, only registration of the presence of Members is required. It's been a success. Interruption until 12.16. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U197	Dear colleagues, We will continue to examine the agenda for the remote emergency session on 16 December this year. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. The draft decision on distrust to the Minister for the Interior Maria Golubeva. On behalf of the applicants, Member Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U198	Hello, Latvian society! Hello, 99 Members of the Saeima! I will try to explain, within this next hour, without emotion, how many unlawful acts have been committed by the state, the police. It is absolutely clear that such action has not been possible without the senior police leadership and, most probably, not just... Very likely... but, in fact, without the involvement of the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva. Let's start with a very simple legal part. This part of the law is as follows: private law allows everything that is not prohibited by law, whereas public law allows only what is permitted by law. The administrative process is public law, and public law only allows what is permitted by law. Public law shall also apply to the detention of a Member of the Saeima. And the detention of a member of the Saeima is possible only if the member of the Saeima commits a crime. Even assuming it is... Even if I admit that there has been any violation of my law, it is allowed in this process, in public law proceedings, only what is permitted by law. So I can only be detained at the time of the crime, not at any time when I get in mind. That's the number one. And it can't be extended more widely, even taught in the first course of the Faculty of Law. And in law... The opinion of one lawyer invited to the Saeima cannot be accepted as an appropriate final conclusion. We don't know who bought him, paid him. The lawyer is not a neutral person. The lawyer always represents the interests of someone. The latter is representative of one's interests, just as Mr Plapa is representing one's interests. Lawyer - this is not the court that makes the relevant decisions. Clearly, the position, including reading the report, was very frivoli declared the facts. And now about the facts. All these facts are recorded in video. They are publicly available, have a fixed series of audio... which is also publicly available... and will be made public. The fact is, there's one. Do I have the right - as a citizen of the Republic of Latvia - to move on a bus around the territory of the Republic of Latvia? Yeah, I have that right. It's not a crime. No administrative or criminal offence. Do I have the right to leave the bus in any city of the Republic of Latvia? Yes, I have the right to leave any city of the Republic of Latvia from a bus. Do I have the right to leave the bus in the petrol tank? Yeah, I have that right. Is it or is it not an offence - an immediate pour of petrol into the lighthouse? No, it's not a crime. Furthermore, do I have a legitimate right to greet and photograph people who have come to me on a voluntary basis? In a free country and a democratic country, I have this right. My entire trip to Latvia, which was shown on continuous live broadcasts, was to go on a bus, get out of it and take pictures with people. And in a democratic, free country, it is right to do so. That's the number one. Number two. ( On the background of the voices of the children.) Dear children, beagle, beagle in silence! Number two. Let's start in a row. Let's start with Tukums. So, on procedural issues. Do I have to respond in any way to any person who comes to me in a yellow vest without facing what he is and not telling us what he has come to do without presenting any documents? Number one. And the legal answer is: I have nothing to do with it. Tukums Police... and it is fixed with video, audio and everything else... All those cops, no one stood before me personally, no one! A number of them had no inscriptions at all about their names (where to talk about identity documents!) . Number two. Procedural operation. ‘ Mr. Gobzems, come to the car” (some kind of black machine), “touch aside” - such a kind of procedural activity is not located in the territory of the Republic of Latvia. ‘ To reach the edge” I was invited by people in the yellow vests who had not planted before. Very significant. Very significant! And that's a fixed video. I was detained for not reaching the edge, and I did not come to an untrafared black car in which I was tried to push. Untracked black cars. Even though according to law... Even if I am detained, I must be placed alone in a separate compartment, away from any human, special vehicle suitable for this event. Go on. I did not, of course, allow me to be put in this vehicle - an untrawl, incomprehensible car. Then I was drawn to the petrol station by these people who didn't explain to me, even though they were repeatedly asked to... and it is a fixed video - no one explained the rights and obligations, although it is their daily duty - to explain to me the rights and obligations. The tow on the next car in which... I was trying to get into a vehicle - not into a separate compartment, but a compartment where there was already an unknown woman. At that time, a person who has not introduced me to himself has not planted before me, has not explained my rights and obligations, has violently broken my hands and put his handcuffs on me. Go on. I was put in a car and taken to the police station. As it can be seen in audio... and will be publicly available everywhere. The police station didn't explain my procedural rights to me. I was accompanied by my representative, who was not allowed to enter the police station, but whom I authorized. Number two. Number three. According to the Administrative Procedure Act, I... Even assuming that I could be detained, even accepting... theory... Although I cannot be detained as a member of the Saeima, I can be detained until I have verified my identity. My personality was found out before I was in the compartment, because everyone knows who I am. So I had to be released immediately. According to the Administrative Procedure Law, I do not have to wait for four hours, it is a restriction of my freedom, for which we will still be sure with the Republic of Latvia, the police... Very probably also with Marija Golubeva. Four hours I was just pickled up, but I was not told to sign... He didn't offer me any documents; he didn't ask me any questions. I just had four hours in the insulator -- every 20 minutes they came in, knocked on me and went. Although - according to the administrative procedure - the moment when I can be detained is the last time I can be detained, and then I must be released, because in the administrative procedure, the provision of explanations is possible afterwards. There you go. It's a very strange situation that... We moved on one principle... Although I had said that I would be in certain cities at a particular time and get out of the bus... It's very strange that after an analogue scenario, though... it is visible in all the videos - we were all, I and the people who came with me, absolutely peaceful, and the only ones who provoked the violence, any kind of violence, were the policemen who did not know the rights. I was not arrested in Talsi, although there was exactly the same situation, the same situation. Nothing different from any other place. Then we moved to Ventspils. Ventspils - this is a special story. I got out... I hadn't reported anywhere - nowhere! - that I would come to Ventspils in the evening; I had reported that I would be in Ventspils in a day. In addition, I had reported that I would be at a supermarket just like in Tukums... At Lidl's supermarket. But I wasn't at Lidl's supermarket, and I was in a completely different place – in Ventspils I was at Klaviers. As a well-known person, I went to the "Quaviers" - to walk around the park. My freedom to walk around the park was limited by a whole bunch of policemen who stopped around me and began to harden me. Although I wasn't aggressive, I didn't threaten anyone, I was walking in Ventspils... in the field... fresh air. The next step is what happened. Not only did the police start to make me hard, they stopped me, broke my hands. On what basis? What did I do wrong? Can't I - as a free man - get out of the bus and walk in Ventspils on the street? But it didn't end. Neither did any police officer explain to me my procedural rights and my duties in Ventspils at any time. What's more, I was subjected to violence. I mean, given that I was driving, and knowing what kind of engagement... I was equipped with a sound recording device to record all the police offences. The Ventspils police officer Apinis, Jānis Apinis, came to me and violently ripped these sound devices... I was violently taken away from me. On what basis? On what basis can a police officer do this? The Chief of the Ventspils Police, Chief of the Division, Zanders, has started to blow pepper gas in the eyes of peaceful people without any foundation, and it has been found in the video. People who were not aggressive... no one. The only people who provoked aggression in Ventspils too were police officers, and everything. Go on. In the police station, I automatically announced who my lawyer is. I declare that I also have a representative on the ground. I asked you to contact my lawyer immediately. I asked for my release immediately, because my personality was immediately clarified. I was not released. I was kept in the police corridor. Two police officers were assigned to me, and I was kept in the police corridor for four hours. I wasn't given... I explained to the police that, since my personality has been clarified and I have to be released, I will not sign any documents and in administrative proceedings I can make all explanations afterwards. I have such a legal right. The police had to release me. They didn't release me, they just kept me for four hours, deprived me of my freedom. When they left seven minutes to four hours, they missed me without having to sign anything. And that's it. After leaving the police station, police officers... a series of them... There were peaceful people there who in no way made any messes and simply photographed me... without any justification used sound... sirens, although the law “On Police” clearly and lightly tells when special means may and must not be used. So these sound signals were used for one reason: not to be able to talk to people. But the Law “On Police”, the Administrative Procedure Law or any other law does not provide for such rights and powers for the police - to use sound amplifying special, special means to prevent people from simply talking. So in Ventspils, the mess was created by the police - with the task of police management. Go on. I went to Liepaja, I was in Liepaja. I had previously informed you that I would be in Liepaja at six evenings, six evenings! I arrived in Liepaja at midnight. I had never announced that I would be in Liepaja at midnight or anything else. I just took a bus to Liepaja. I got out of the bus before Liepaja and boarded a private vehicle. And I have a big question. Why did police officers track this private vehicle? In fact, there is a big question: why did the police persecute me all week anywhere I go? And in parallel, they persecuted my place of residence... my children, my family. Why and on what legal basis? Can I, as a Member of the Saeima, not move around the territory of the Republic of Latvia? Can any bus, even if there is my photograph on this bus, not move around the territory of the Republic of Latvia? Which law bans this? Which law allows persecuting, tracking, following, constantly driving along, terrorising the Saeima Member? Which law? There's no such law. Neither the Constitution, nor the Law on Police, nor everything else... does not provide for it. The bus driver is starting to terrorize, the driver driving a private car in which I boarded, just put my bag in and... I'm driving a private car, I'm in a car. All this is fixed video and audio. I went to Liepaja to stay. I was free to go to the hotel Liva to register (i.e. - as a guest of the hotel), and after a moment I wanted to leave the hotel - as a free person in a free country leaves the hotel at midnight. Tens of police officers stand in front of the hotel door! Please tell me, in which democratic country, a Member of Parliament or anyone should not leave the hotel at midnight? Why shouldn't he leave the hotel? Is there a law that bans it? All the videos show that I am absolutely peaceful; all the videos - for a week - show that I have called everyone I have met for peace, not aggression. After a successful coincidence, I was out of the hotel Līva and walked alone. It's on Liepaja alone. A group of people began to form behind me, they were people I don't know... I didn't know anyone... which I had not called for there. Suddenly it ran... There were so many policemen around me. And I just went. I didn't let myself... I just went, and it's a fixed video. It is fixed live and similar. Police Officer Leeds from... I don't know where he comes from, but I locked his name... began to break my fingers (and it's a fixed video)... began to tear my clothes and break my fingers just because I went through Liepaja. I was violently put in a police vehicle - that I was walking down the street! - and I was taken to the police station. The police station didn't place me in the isolator, I was in the hallway. And when I repeat to the person in the police station the same mantra that I have and a lawyer that all the documents should be kept to him that my personality is and that my personal code is and that's, the policeman who brought the case began to pretend he didn't know me. And only when I told him (forgive me, but I told him exactly like that), is he really so uneducated axe that he doesn't recognize a familiar member of the Saeima, he confessed that he knew me. So it was found what my personality is, but I was still not released after the identification of my personality. No documents were presented to me. I was not told my rights, my responsibilities. I wasn't introduced... None of the police officers who hit me, broke my hands and ripped my clothes, and didn't introduce me to... who they are, what they call them, what positions they hold and why they have caught me at all, why they have detained me. Just the same way next morning... I went out of the hotel Līva and just as I walked around Liepaja, and I boarded the same bus, with which I continued to go to the next stops where I got out and took pictures of people... I've taken pictures of people! I stress once again - I took pictures with people! I didn't know that taking pictures with people in a free country was a crime; that it was a crime that depriveds freedom: violently deprived of freedom... and makes mess directly with the police. I went to Kuldīga. Ten policemen met me again in Kuldiga. And I've been followed... And Kuldīga followed me... I was not arrested by Kuldiga, and I was followed by a journey to Sald. And it is very significant that the local rural police acted calmly, but it was those who traveled from Riga who were aggressive, noiseed, made messes, persecuted, applied without appropriate regulation of the law... just get in and use the sound signal - drive in the crowd with the machine and use the sound signal. Why? There's just people standing there, they're just standing there, they're not doing anything wrong. The people are standing on the street, and the police car is going into people - with a sound signal to sound. And so it happened almost all over Latvia. I'll tell you more. The next day, so I continued in Saldus, stopped in Dobele, stopped... I stopped in Jelgava, too. And I stood in Jelgava in a place where I was not going to stop, in a very different place of the city. I can't do anything that I'm a popular person in Latvia and people come to me who want to take a picture or talk to me, because, as you see, mostly everywhere... I said that I'm going to supermarkets, but almost nowhere I was to supermarkets, and almost nowhere I was at the time I said that I would be at supermarkets. That is very significant. But the interesting began next day. I came home after the second day, and it is very interesting that I was not arrested on the second day. And I wasn't arrested for one reason only - because people, Latvian society, were already raised and the authorities were afraid of arresting me. Baile! So in none of these places I had to explain my rights, my responsibilities, although the police, who do the same thing every day, should know these rights and responsibilities - from the head all over Latvia! - and not feverishly looking for the leaves... and don't find... to explain, and forget that we need to clarify the rights. I left home on Wednesday, and I'm followed by the security police... automatic... a security police machine. We've got everything filmed. I'm going to Sigulda, and I'm under state control. Why? I'm a criminal? Some criminal cases have been brought against me, I've committed crimes? It's a crime to take a picture of people? Is it a crime to drive a bus? What exactly is a crime? Or to stop in petroltank and immediately, momentarily, in seconds, pour fuel... Do you use the fuel right after that? If you miss a minute, you're already a criminal. It's very interesting. We've recorded what's a police lie, talking about Tukums... that there have been claims... at that moment from the petrol station. I'm sorry, there was an automatic petrol station, there wasn't at all, having to make claims. It's all a fixed video. The police are also lying. So I continued my follow-up through Latvia. We've recorded it, it's video visible. There was a situation in Daugavpils where the vehicle entered the crowd and a sound-reproducing device was turned on, and I asked you to turn off the sound-reproducing device with such a harsh voice. In accordance with the law, the sound amplification device may not only be switched on... in statutory cases... but only the person who drives the vehicle and not the person sitting next to it may be switched off. Why does a person sitting next to him touch the sound amplifying devices, sirens? Was he authorized to do so? Does the law provide for this? What was the basis for using it all along the road? How much state resources were spent to track for a week... And in the evening... which has been found thus in video surveillance cameras - that security police officers in police forms are hiding along my house. With what right? What are the rights of my family and my children, minor children? Which member of the Saeima is treated in the territory of the Republic of Latvia by the police every day? What kind of Saeima Member is still treated so that the police are hiding around his house? All the car numbers are recorded. All people are fixed. How can it be explained that no police officer is able to explain rights and obligations? How can it be explained that police chief Ruck has time for television interviews, but there is no time to report to the leader of the Saeima faction? Let's talk about security services now. There was some danger in the country that the safety services of the weeks with special vehicles, non-road mobile vehicles that changed (they were not one or two, there were many more vehicles, and they were all fixed for video surveillance... video, they're fixed video), I've been tracked? Why did the State Security Service follow me, filmed with Sony's video cameras, with corresponding numbers? What shows the professionalism of the security service if all these security staff are fixed, recognised and only by the end of the week they start using the means we tell them... how they should work to make them invisible, to disappear into a crowd, and so on. How is it possible - in a country where we are talking about the fact that we are in danger from Russia or from where... at a time when a week... Every day tens of thousands of taxpayers' money... The euro was spent to follow Member Gobzem? The State Security Service did not record that it was possible to rent residential premises at the Presidential Palace by way of a completely lawful call to Airbnb. Why can you even rent accommodation? Everyone, a terrorist, an officer of Russia's special services... Everyone... country (I would stress - state!) premises owned, not by a private owner, but by state-owned premises in the Castle Square. Why all the actions that took place in the Castle Square... Is that so? It was seen that the people who came in the Castle Square were all peaceful, they came with songs, they came with dances, they came with pianos. Why did the police start all the hardships by robbing people of their property? All the provocations came from state power. All right. Absolutely everywhere in every city, anywhere I was in the last week. Wherever I was, the local police informed me that it was an order from above. And it was obvious that the local police did not engage in a peaceful event when a Member leaves the bus and takes pictures with some people, spend 20 minutes in a particular place and drives further. And this happens at a time when we are raging Belarus flags and condemning protests in Russia... not protests, but the suppression of protests. A video has been filmed, where police officers shoot pensioners behind the hair. On what legal basis? Why? Why do police officers work a woman in retirement years with two cruises? To show power? To scare people? Do you want to scare the political opposition? I will remind you that in a democratic country the political opposition has the right to express opinions, has the right to move around the territory of the Republic of Latvia, has the right to express opinions that do not coincide with the views of the ruling power, has the right to criticise the ruling power. And in a democratic state (it has, by the way, been established by the Constitutional Court) there is no need to request permission to express this right. We have collected hour long videos about police incompetentness. We have collected hours of material on how the police track me, without explaining why I am being persecuted. We have a video where we get to Cesis's side to the cafe to pee and eat. And the police persecute me. Which law, Section of the Law “On Police” allows you to do this? We came to these cops, to the famous Cesis Police Officer, Cirule, and I asked a question in the immediate air... it's recorded video... According to which law she persecuted me at this point and why she followed me at this point, and she could not answer. Although the police should be able to account for any action they do, she couldn't explain why she was driving all the way with me – from Cesis to Valmiera, further to Smilten... and in that spirit. Why I'm being persecuted by policeman Savchenko, probably a security officer when I'm in the Central Market of Riga and share the washing of poor people free of charge... and also carries out a procedural act? ‘ Get in the edge!” What in the police is it about such a thing, about such a kind of procedural action - “Get to the edge!” Is that so? Very common in every city, and basically it was done by policemen from Riga who followed me all the way. I recall - such a procedural activity as “Get to the edge!” Doesn't exist. And I, as a free man, as a Member of the Saeima, do not have to respond to a person who has not planted before a person who has not explained his procedural rights. And Tukums is a special example of this. I began to struggle, to tear my clothes, to break my hands, because I didn’t perform (footsteps) “proceeding” – “Get to the edge!” ... until the untrapched car. I don't have to go anywhere. My citizen's rights make it clear and clear that I do not have to submit to illegal police action. After all, I didn't even know they were cops, because yellow vests can be worn by anyone. Anyone can put a scar. I was hit by the boys in the yellow vests and I broke my hands. Just like this, although I was peaceful, smiling, friendly and called on all people throughout the territory of the Republic of Latvia to be peaceful and friendly. And in the final, Mr Ruck, as the policeman, about all this, not to explain the situation to the public, but to laugh that I had handcuffs put on me not to hurt myself. Mr Ruka and Mrs Golubeva! You have done everything within a week to make the prestige of the police crippled - toll crippled! This is one of the main reasons why you should leave office. Mrs Golubeva, as a minimum, you should ask the Head of State Police and Head of the State Security Service, namely Armands Ruka and Normunds Forest Site, to resign from fulfilling their responsibilities for those countless - the countless! - procedural offences, their apparent lack of professionalism and incompetentness, that it is the police that have provoked violence and that it is the police action that has led to someone being injured for a week, even though the police task is to do the opposite. Police task in accordance with Article 11 of the Law on Police... states that a police officer (from Armand Ruck and Normund Forest Site to Line Police) must help a Member; it is an obligation - not a right, but an additional duty - to help a Member. Throughout the trip, the police didn't help me. On the contrary, they made messes, plus persecuted, as I said before. And there's another thing. As a Member of the Saeima, like all the other 91 Members who are currently present at the Saeima, I have a duty - not a right, but a duty - to meet the voters, to communicate with people, to listen to them. And I've done that, too. The fact that I am in my Member's office (and you may not like my personality because I am in the opposition and I am quite a strong personality) does not put handcuffs in a democratic country, does not break my fingers, does not cause the personal damage I have been found in the video - personal injury that would not have occurred if police officers were not violently treated against me. And by the end. I would like to thank all the policemen all over Latvia who were not involved in the violence process. I would particularly like to thank the local police in rural and small towns. I want to thank all the people who have not engaged in any violence. I would like to thank all my supporters and the general public, who had the opportunity to see a test for democracy, which was obviously not passed by by the State Police, the State Security Service, which did not deal with its direct job responsibilities. And I have a big question: why the State Security Service spends resources, and is it really purposeful to maintain two, if not more, face profiles on Twitter - Cardinalis Raus and there... Professor... What's his name? I don't remember from my head now... to keep me informed for a continuous week. We recorded on which side the Sony cameras filmed, and it is obvious that they are security accounts. Is the security service really dealing with Facebook accounting on social networks? Throughout the week, they don't have to do anything else, how do they come along with the Saeima? I think Mrs Golubeva should ask some questions about this to Mr Mežvieta and Mr Ruka. To conclude this speech, I would like to say to the Members of the Saeima, also from the point of view: I understand that we are political opponents, I understand that some of you are happy about what has happened, but I would like to stress and ask you to think about the day when you can also be in a similar situation, you can be on the day when you can be in opposition. And then you don't have to be surprised. That's why in a legal state... I call - whether or not Gobzem is in a position, is or is not in a position of opposition - but a little objectively look at the current situation and find that in a free country, a free person is entitled to travel by bus from one city to another, get out of it and take a picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U199	Let us start a debate. Name to the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U200	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Dear colleagues, Dear listeners and viewers of the sitting! I can tell Member Gobzem that the Chief of Police, Mr Ruck, will carry out checks on all the facts of detention, and I will see the results of these checks, and we will see them. However, given that the Members have proposed that I express my distrust as Minister for the Interior, my speech will cover a wider range of issues. 196 days ago, as Minister for the Interior, I said that the keywords for my work will be "humanity", "reforms" and "cooperation". On that day, 3 June, the hybrid attack on Latvia had not yet begun, there were not yet 100,000 Russian soldiers on the Ukrainian border, and Belarus had not yet been enticed (the sound defect.) ... Thousands of third-country nationals, who were promised that they could easily enter Europe through forests at the border, and populists had not yet started to turn people's fatigue from the community into their political capital. Today, faced with aggression, these three key words are even more important to me. First, on humanity. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Latvian border guards, the police, and also the national guards who are on guard day and night with the inhuman act of the Lukashenko regime using hybrid war methods against the people who it is cruelly using as living ammunition; to thank those state and local policemen who, in the performance of their duties, try to insult and humiliate populists. Thank the police for their professional, patient and balanced actions. I would like to thank the fire-fighters and rescuers who have saved the lives of many people during these 196 days, the investigators who are doing their work under no circumstances and our security services, who are providing decision-makers with timely information and analysis. Thank you. ( The sound is broken.) ... It has been critically important in my work. Cooperation between the home affairs, security, defence, diplomatic services for the security of our borders and the sustainability of society, cooperation between ministers and institutions in the most important project - construction of full borders, cooperation with partners in the region and in Europe for the removal of hybrid attacks complexes and cooperation with non-governmental organisations working with vulnerable groups on a daily basis and allowing many situations to be seen from the edge, looking for and finding the best solutions. Let me note that the European Commission has just tabled a draft law amending the Schengen Borders Code in order to be able to face the crisis of false migration in a legally more efficient way. We called for these changes in a broad coalition of European countries, as well as common European attention and funding to protect our common external border. As a result, the European Commission has decided to triple the European funds available to modernise and equip the Baltic-Poland borders - up to EUR 200 million over two years. It has to be acknowledged that until the systematic change in the European Union's rules on migration, asylum and border control is a long way to go, so here I want to emphasise clearly and lightly: the rapid and high-quality construction of our eastern border is our own country's responsibility and responsibility. This is a common priority for me and for the government as a whole, and we must implement it together as soon as possible. I will use this opportunity to report that a temporary fence of 37 kilometres has been built on the Belarusian border, and today the Committee on the Construction of the Border has become familiar with the next steps of the plan. For the construction of permanent infrastructure, a technical task is to correct mistakes in this area in previous years for builders and designers. Cooperation is the key to one of the most important initiatives in the Ministry of the Interior - development of home affairs personnel, education, training and research in the cooperation project “Internal Security Academy”. It will consist of the State Police College, University of Latvia and Riga Stradins University together, and this will provide Latvia with an opportunity to prepare specialists at European level for the needs of home affairs and other institutions. I am convinced that better education and professional development are, of course, at the heart of the motivation and sustainability of the people of the home system alongside adequate remuneration. In terms of pay, there is some progress in the next year's budget; the previously large differences between pay in the home affairs service and the armed forces will gradually be levelled out. Police officers investigating crimes and carrying out operational activities will receive specific support in the field of remuneration and training. Cooperation is also of great value in the work of the government. In matters of internal affairs and national security, colleagues, all political forces need cooperation, and it also exists, despite the diversity of our ideal beliefs, our cooperation is vital, because security, like a nation's identity, is above party interests. It is symbolic and correct that our Saeima National Security Commission is led by a responsible and experienced Member from the opposition party. Thirdly, a few words about reforms. When I took office, one thing was clear to me: in the system of home affairs, which is more conservative than a progressive institution in most countries, there is certainly no need for a revolution, but it needs smart, gradual and planned reforms. Just a few of them. First of all, modernisation of machinery, technology, equipment, transport and special means. In 2022 we plan to equip the training ground of the State Fire and Rescue Service and build eight fire-fighting depots. We plan to invest in technologies - cameras, special audio and video equipment, radio, communication and information systems. I have already mentioned the reform of education and training. It will allow people working in law enforcement institutions to learn modern and high-quality education at European level in Latvia. The structural reforms that we are implementing, in line with the experience and analysis of the European partners, within the framework of the SRAP project, including the gradual reorganisation of structures, the auditing of obsolete working processes in the police, the PMLP and other services, and the assessment and progress of staff in the service's interests. Structural reforms also include the establishment of a single disaster management centre. In the premises of the newly built fire station both the State Fire and Rescue Service and the State Police departments will be located in one place. Let us also focus more on the fight against domestic violence, including domestic violence. A significant step is that already now the police have the right to distinguish between the more violent without an application by the protected person in cases where there is a threat that the aggressor may harm the person's life, freedom or health. NGOs working in this field appreciate these amendments very much. More effective algorithms have been developed for the recognition, detection and prevention of trafficking in human beings, greater involvement in the prevention of adolescence, positive involvement of socially disadvantaged adolescents and young people than punishment. In the field of digitisation, after my task, the Ministry of the Interior has developed concrete proposals on the regulation of digital transfer visas and prepared amendments to the Immigration Law. Also, after my task in the Ministry, special attention is paid to information and data security policy, so that the development of home affairs in the digital environment goes hand in hand with data security. More attention will be paid to hate crimes, in particular aggression and incitement to hatred in cyberspace. We have drafted proposals for penalties for expressed threats and have proposed to the Saeima Commission possible amendments to the Law on Administrative Penalty. Greater involvement in international cooperation, communication and decision-making in Europe, both at management and operational level, is also important. By the way, for our people... quality and international competitiveness is demonstrated by the becoming a deputy director of the European Border and Coast Guard Agency, the Latvian border guard professional Kalnāja, while holding a large selection in the competition. Finally, on the functioning of the home affairs system during the collective pandemic. To be honest, in the middle of the summer, the response to the call for vaccination was not the highest. Thanks to the leadership of the heads of the service and prudent communication, the number of vaccinated workers in the short term reached 75 percent and now the total of 98 percent. People in the home system understand: disinformation, anti-vacserism and cynic populism kills during a pandemic, misleading people and counterfeiting certificates of vaccination kills. This must be addressed with all the harshness of the law, and we will do so. It should be remembered that the next year is the Saeima elections. We will do our utmost to prevent external interference in the democratic processes of our country, by preventing disinformation and manipulation in the electoral campaign. I could continue to talk about the work, plans and plans of the home workers and the whole system for the future. Internal security, which today is also an integral part of external security, cyber security, and the security of the information space, is a very interesting topic and a matter of national importance. Security is and will be one of the great issues of the 21st century. I hope to continue working together with 13 000 workers and workers in our home system, unless you, honourable Members and Members, give me the opportunity to do so today with your vote. One law is one truth for all. This is and will remain the core principle of both my work and that of the home affairs sector as a whole. This also applies to all Members of the Saeima, regardless of their ego size, social situation and views. I trust in the capacity of the Latvian judiciary to separate the grain from the chaff, freedom of speech and assembly from self-targeted, illegal provocations, and I also trust the Saeima. Thank you for your kind attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U201	Thank you to the Minister for the Interior. The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U202	Good evening, dear colleagues! President of the Saeima! Well, I felt at all that we had the annual report of the Minister for the Interior, following Mrs Marija Golubeva's speech. You should have talked about fences when you had two demisions about not building fences before there were refugees at the border. On today's flight, on 29. Article of the Satversme... It states: ‘A member of the Saeima may not be arrested by being searched without any other restriction on his personal freedom if he does not agree with the Saeima.’ When Aldi was arrested on several occasions in Kurzeme, the Saeima did not ask for anything. It is a gross violation of the Satversme. In any normal democratic state, following such an incident, the Minister would have demisted himself and personally ascertained that the irregularities were being stopped. Mrs Golubeva did not act, but ignored the Constitution and the Latvian people. And today we were able to see that with retroactive date, the Commission for Mandate, Ethics and Application announced the start of the administrative process - when this whole process went away... week ago, a notice was made. All right. Members, as the leaders of the people's elections, fulfil the will of the people, so the immunity of Members in the democracy plays a particularly important role. The principle of inviolability is intended for two reasons: to ensure the smooth functioning of Parliament and to protect its members from unjustified and politically motivated accusations that might come from the executive. My employer is Latvian people who had gone to meet instead of Minister Golubeva or Chief of Police Ruck... and she, in violation of the law, allowed violence against Aldi to be applied and put into the police cage just because someone hates that Aldi, as politicians, is waiting for people in all regions of Latvia... According to the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation of 22 September 2020 No. Article 4 of the Statute of the Ministry of the Interior is to develop, organise and coordinate policies in the field of crime prevention and fight, as well as to organise and coordinate laws... According to Article 10 of the Regulations, subordinates of the Ministry of the Interior are the State Police. Last week and still on Monday, the State Police (I do not know whether Minister Golubeva's message and blessing was used to investigate murders, but to persecute Members of the Saeima. This ruling power has already proved on several occasions that it does not care about the hierarchy of laws, the fact that the Constitution has the highest power in Latvia. They restrict the Constitution, the right to work, move and speak about regulations of the Cabinet on epidemiological security. The governing authority does not care about any laws or regulations that need to be found or additionally recorded as necessary, including with retroactive effect. And it's not a democratic facility. If we do not wait today for the sensible progress of this draft decision, if there is no confidence, it will be clear that democracy in Latvia is over and that we Members are just a puppet, the left over democracy that is not needed by the Cabinet of Ministers. This will mean that the executive power can persecute any of the 100 Members, punish him or her for political reasons, for reasons of opinion, for reasons of popularity. I believe that this is not democracy. Imagine Latvia, where you are going to meet voters, talk, take pictures and track your vehicle, persecutors. There was one present persecution in very many films in history: when the press persecuted Princess Diana. And the whole world knows how it ended. But we drove a slippery road slowly by bus. I was on the bus too. I also have children, but we had the police with us, and the police also had guns. And where's the guarantee that they won't be used? Everyone saw the police in Kurzeme act - provoked the crowd and then applied tear gas to people who did not even oppose. Victimisation is, for example, multiple tracking of another person, long stay in one place to observe another, or insulting another in any other similar way without a legitimate reason. In the same way, persecution may take the form of approaching or confrontation with a person. More precisely, a more concrete expression of persecution is the regular tracking of the victim in its usual daily life, for example, on the way from home to work. Liability for persecution is stipulated in Article 132.1 of the Criminal Law. There has been persecution against members of the Saeima. And who should be responsible for this? We have already been used in Latvia to assume responsibility for huge political scandals to a completely unrelated person. Make a move perhaps for the caretaker of the Tukums police station, but Golubeva, as a minister, will not understand that what happened is her political responsibility. And it is time for us, as Members, the legislator, to show the seed. It has to be said once: there is democracy here and there is a legislator, not an executive. The executive power shall comply with what the legislator shall determine. And the legislator has a responsibility towards the people, against his constituents. Colleagues! Anyone can be next. A Member shall be free to exercise his powers and shall not be subject to arbitrary political persecution. This ensures the independence of the entire parliament. The Minister has not only committed a gross violation of the Satversme, but she should also be responsible for wasting funds. How much did it cost to track all of their police and security crews for a bus? Who gave orders... Why can't I take two photos with two people out of the fresh air at the same time? And more permission to laugh: “One law is one justice for all.” At the opening event, people can meet and kiss, but in the field of fresh air I can’t take pictures with the supporters. That's the way we're all right. Or that one thing is true, however, that we go to totalitarianism and make it a rule that some have more rights than others. Colleagues! How will you vote in favour today? When we realise that this is not normal, if we do not understand it when people are severely restricted by their rights and freedoms, when Aldi is repeatedly detained by the police, then Members of the Saeima are being persecuted on the way to a peaceful meeting when police are using brutal force and tear gas against peaceful people? Who else must we realize that this is no longer the country that our ancestors created? When will we realize that this is not normal? Only when they put people in the livestock cars and send them away? We start with gas in the eyes, we end with a gas cell? We cannot allow no one to take responsibility for this! I ask you to prolong your speech... Well, I have time to go, I'm sorry. What was the reason for this disproportionate presence of the police at each meeting? Why, when dozens of people gather at Lidl, there's no cop there, but when I meet people in a small town, Aldi meets, there's a number of crews? And about this very Saeima security office is informed. This is not about human health and epidemiological rules. Show the power, supremacy, control over everyone - that was the goal? They want to show who is the boss, who is the master? They make it clear that they consider other people to be less important, even slaves, just as tear gas is in place of the stick this time. If the Minister does not have to leave the office today, the Saeima will have normalized and said that this will be the case - the police are shouting at young people, threatening to call parents and school directors, threatening the impossible sanctions, the police are running cameras on people's faces, the police are unreasonably examining people's documents, the car's technical passports are taken away, the police are disrupting people's peace with continuing sirens, the police are restricting people's movements... movement - this is what we have a reality... The prestige of the State police has been completely destroyed by giving all its stupid orders. The police do not trust but fear the police. How can a child be taught that when something bad or suspicious happens, when a child is hurt, let him run to the police, because the policeman will protect himself. But how can we teach it? At such a peaceful meeting, when talking about and drinking tea with which the child is taken by the parents, the police shout, and the heavy and standing cars constantly close the sirens, which scare the children, and the children cry. We will now have a generation that is more afraid of the police than of the perverts and (not hearable)... And thank you to Golubeva. The police guard the iceberg, but they don't protect children. The police are fighting pianos, but they are not fighting crime. If on 13 December someone had killed someone, put them in a bag and stretched them to the Daugava, the police would just say thank you for not going to Gobzem. The police no longer have to investigate the murders of Bunkus, Rebenok, and Bezzubov, but Aldis, the biggest criminal in the country. Interestingly, Interpol has sometimes been informed of Alda's meeting? Why is Alda's house under surveillance by the security service? If we do not say decisively at the moment that the Minister for the Interior has to take political responsibility for the farce implemented by the State Police, then each of the voters will be personally responsible for allowing oppression. Each Member will be personally responsible for the deprivation of liberty and for the loss of freedom of movement in democracy, freedom of work, education and medicine. There is also fundamental freedom - freedom of expression. And it also included the right to protest. And on 13 December people used their freedom of expression. Yes, in Latvian society until now, the protest spirit has been silenced, because quiet obedience is stressed as a norm. And the ruling authority uses it, allowing it to do anything, assuming that the people will also endure it. That's why the executive has so much to crumble that Gobzem tells everyone that he doesn't always have to submit to it. People are not slaves, and the Cabinet cannot be slaves. People have the right to make clear what they want and to be heard. Armands Rucks, the Chief of State Police, said that if the builders start to read the Constitution, then there is an interpretation. And I'm proud of every builder who has read the Constitution. I am proud of every builder, seller, driver, planter, teacher, naughter, storer, poster, maintainer and anyone else who has read the basic law of the Republic of Latvia. And it would also be useful for Ruck to read it once, maybe then he would at least think for a moment before saying or doing another idiotism. And Golubeva is also responsible for Ruka. Such arrogance and humiliation cannot be allowed. Everyone has the right to know their rights, especially those laid down in the basic law - the Constitution - and the power of the State should take care that everyone knows them and not be concerned about the people who read the Constitution. The Constitution is written for all, not for Golubeva and Rucks alone. The endless arrogance of this ruling power must be put to an end. The Ministry of the Interior must assume responsibility for violations of the Satversme and the ubiquitousness and brutality of the State Police towards the people. Colleagues, any of you can be next (not heard.) ... persecution or punishment. Any one of you can count as next. It is necessary to show that it takes effect. Colleagues, I call for the vote on distrust to the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U203	The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U204	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear Minister, Colleagues! Well, there's two important things here. One is the specific situation which has been the basis for speaking, therefore, of asking for a democracy, that is, in the context of the arrest of a Member - has it been legal or non-legal... illegal. The second section is about the work of the Minister for the Interior as a whole. So let's start with what's happened. Member Aldis Gobzems, like other Members, used his duty or actually fulfilled his duty to meet voters, and if you look at the live broadcasts that have been carried out, it can be seen that the event itself has happened peacefully: people meet each other, speak out, the Member tells the news, goes to the next place. The detention, of course, took place in such an aggressive form. Perhaps there were even more people who arrested Member Aldi Gobzem than those who were at that time at the site of the event as individuals. So that in this case, lawyers who make different opinions on whether it was legal or non-legal... In my opinion, it is not the right way to hide behind these opinions, because how many lawyers will have opinions, how many lawyers, how many opinions, and how different they will be. If we look at experts in constitutional law, there have also been different opinions among different experts in this case, including, for example, the expert on constitutional law, Ringold Balodis, who viewed this whole set of events through a different prism than is being presented here. The other thing is, if we look at what can happen in the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application, then... Let us not be naive: it is not any court, no binding decisions as to whether or not to make a person's detention illegal and thus to establish legal consequences... Well, of course, it's not in this commission... The majority have positions for Members who decide, within their coalition board, what to do with this issue. That is very well understood by us. This is also not a legal aspect. However, it is very important to stand up above a particular case and, however, talk about very important national things. And these national things are: firstly, freedom of expression, secondly, freedom of assembly and, thirdly, the right to freedom of movement. In this case, this is a very important issue, because if officials of the highest state can ignore the law, but, for example, a Member who is in opposition is oppressed... Time is going on, and time is changing, and this situation can change diametrically, on the contrary, that the Member who is perhaps in a loud mood at the moment, for example, will no longer be in the position but in the opposition. And if we live in an undemocratic society... and where there is a country of politics, we will see exactly the same methods for the former Member of the position... Well, now it's the opposition. Namely, the norms of the law must be hindered abstractly, not by applying them to a particular person, depending on whether this person is gifted with political power or not with political power. The question in this context is therefore as follows: The fact that, in the performance of his duties, a Member meets - in the fresh air - with people when it comes to topicalities is forbidden; the police are addressing this Member rather aggressively. But when exactly the same gathering - perhaps even more extensive assembly - takes place at a time when public officials are going to put down flowers and they really want the public to see this wonderful, solemn moment, then, of course, restrictions on the gathering are no longer of interest to anyone. The police are standing next to and looking at this event with a fist: how then we'll go here to intervene at such a solemn moment and get people out of here. But the virus does not matter if there are the country's most important officials, the country's most insensitive officials, or anyone else. In this case, the virus did not matter. So you put it together... And then tell me that there were quite a lot of people there... Well then, however, we would like to point out the question of whether the principles are applied in a uniform manner - and specifically. And here was the saying: “One law is one justice for all.” One law is one justice for all: for one person, for the other, for the third and, respectively, for groups. Because only in this way... society, seeing truly the same, consistent attitude both in one case and in the other, will gladly comply with the laws. If that attitude is different, then we will see perhaps quite different attitudes. If we look at this legal aspect, whether there has been a right to arrest Members or not, this will obviously come to court. Obviously, it will have to be judged by the court. Obviously, there are different legal opinions. The parliamentary committee - a majority - does not, of course, look at this issue objectively and, of course, draw the appropriate conclusions. If we also look at other issues that we now have in the context of expressing distrust to the Minister for the Interior, it is a matter of joint work. And the most important thing is what has been done. I remember, at the Cabinet of Ministers, there was also talk about video cameras... a system of observation that could provide us, firstly, with preventive action to prevent crime and, secondly, with crime, with sufficient speed and quality to investigate it, including small crimes. In fact, it is even the fact that Latvian citizens often use small-scale theft, whether it is mobile phone theft or bicycle theft, they don't turn to the police - they don't just know: time will be spent, the paper will be measured more than the result will be. I am not saying that the police are working badly in general, but I am saying that this type of attitude towards people is certainly heard. So the video cameras... The observation system in plans is - somewhere... sometime after the end of the Minister's term of office, it will be implemented... That's not good! That, of course, is what we need to do right now! That would be a very valuable recommendation. If we still look at that question of the rule of law, I also have a very important question personally about the murder of my friend (by the way, he was a public official) sworn lawyer Pavel Rebenok, who... It was reported that it would immediately be investigated, that criminals were found and severely punished, but it is now 16 December 2021 and that such loud statements by those who have made them have already been forgotten. So, actually, I'd like to hear that question, too. Undoubtedly... I want to return to the very basic principles that democracy is not just about the position... and does not apply to the opposition or, in other cases, on the contrary... Democracy applies to all citizens of Latvia in the same way. The Chief of State Police himself, who recommends builders to read the Constitution, also pointed out that this law is absolutely the same for all. In this case, I pointed to an example of what was happening with the setting up of flowers, other measures (many examples can be found) and an increase in the treatment of any other measure that... At the moment, it seems like a political fiction. Has that been the case? Apparently, the court will find out. Since it is very important to think about these basic principles, which must be respected by all the officials, especially, of course, by the police. And if the police leadership has been given the task of acting in this way in one case or another, namely to detain a Member, forgetting what is written in the Constitution, then it is time to read the Constitution again. And if we're talking about administrative irregularities, then... In this case, it is absolutely enough for a person to be detained: “Hello, what do you call?” The infringement protocol is being written immediately, and now the police are, let us say, very digitised - they are able to send them to e-mail; this is very good. And no detention is needed, where else is deprivation of liberty, detention for several hours! And where else several times in a row! What was the purpose of this? This is not a criminal offence. Hence, detention or such detention is pointless at all. There will obviously still be a question about this. None of us would want him to be detained. But in this case... from a warm chair, of course, it is easy for us to look at the situation that has happened to man in particular... Indeed, it deprives him of the opportunity to move freely and does not give him the right to act freely as a citizen of Latvia. Besides... the last one, in the context of this detention status. So this is about a Member of the Saeima. Colleagues, I will remind you that the Member of the Saeima is a political person who is engaged in his political occupation. A political person, the Saeima Member, has been denied anyone - absolutely anyone! - another type of activity (an exception is, of course, that such a person can act as a teacher and so on). In particular, such a person is prevented from professional activities such as entrepreneurship or any other. So... he carries out political action, conducts it on a political basis, and we may like it or not like it. But - this person has political intentions, he has a mandate from the public, he has an obligation to meet with his voters, with the public at large, to listen to the public, to inform the public about what he does in his professional activities, to report to his voters. In any event, it is the responsibility of such a person. Even for us, colleagues, Friday is the so-called day on which we meet our constituents; on Friday we have scheduled meetings with the voters. When we can now meet our constituents if we have epidemiological safety rules... and better organise their meeting in the fresh air, where, as we are told by epidemiologists, the possibility of becoming infected with this contagious disease is minimised. Of course, people are meeting in the same way, and consistency is not observed in the sense that one event, you see, is allowed to meet, another event is not allowed; it simply leads to such a disagreement. And whether one or the other or the third person has called for the event to gather people to listen to the Member... I think that any of us, not already 100 Members, but 98 Members who have the right to attend the Saeima sitting... That is to say, there must be no Member, Romanus Nadiņš, and Member, Jūlija Stepanenko, who - with such an unconstitutional decision, which was provided by a majority of positions - cannot take part in this. Therefore, there is a great deal to be careful when we start to violate the fundamental principles of democracy and those principles that we have in the very Constitution. I call, colleagues, on this theme “One Law - One Justice for All”. This must be taken into account by both the positions and those of the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U205	Name to Member Juris Rancan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U206	Good evening, colleagues! I am listening to this sitting of the Saeima, and listening to those speakers who have been before me, I find such a lasting... Pharyngolaryngeal sensation Colleagues, it seems to me that Alda Gobzem's speech at all... reminds me of some version of the 1990s - you know, I went here, I didn't do anything wrong, I was not taken about this, nor by the bad police. I don't know who we... Some Members have forgotten the Rododendron operation, which was declared very widespread in social networks. All of them have forgotten how “peaceless” these protests were, which led to four criminals for the police and full of video networks, how “peaceable” protestors “peacely” attacked the police, throwing them down and taking them to their feet. A full social network with video is... with this “peaceful” protestor, not censored against these police officers. Full networking is a video showing how the restrictions and requirements of assembly are violated. I wanted to remind you, colleagues, of what did not come from previous speakers here... Emergency situations have been announced in the country. There are restrictions on gathering in the country: up to 20 persons - outdoors. These were established by order of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 720 Promulgating an emergency. The Member is obliged to meet the voters without doubt, but it can also be done in compliance with the law. If we are talking about the work of the police, I would once again like to thank my group and our group, the New Conservative Group, for their hard work, for not allowing them to be provocative on a wider scale. We saw what happened near Riga Castle. I do not know why the independent Members who spoke here completely forgot that, for reasons of epidemiological security at this point, this particular political action was not allowed. It was actually an illegal political action - that is something we do not remember. I do not know where this interpretation of the Constitution comes from, that if you are a member of the Saeima, then you may, regardless of any country's determination... laws and the Constitution... not a constitutional order, but an emergency order... restrictions, just do what you want. For no reason, the Members imagine that, now, a Member of the Saeima can fly to every police station and claim an aggressive certificate, to say that he is hiding there. It is his duty to be in this item and to monitor public order. Where do you take all this that the parliamentary immunity gives rise to the right to commit any offences, while the police do not have any right to stop these offences? We have the opinion of experts in constitutional law that police action on stopping these violations is absolutely legitimate. And I completely join it. I would like to thank those policemen who kept restraint at these times when different inappropriate people, who... failure to find the original of the Satversme, and therefore they believe that everything in this country is illegal. We have very many inadequate people, marginal people. And here really the police were very self-controllable. And I'm sure without... And that was also seen in the video commission sent to us... that the police did not arrest anyone without need. And in addition to all that. Colleagues, if they want to meet the voters, can organize these meetings remotely, can arrange to comply with the country... This limitation on assembly. And right now so straightening that “I went out just to breathe fresh air in Liepaja, and I'm here... or in other cities... and the police came to me here and asked me not to do anything else,”... Well, I'm sorry, all this doesn't completely stand criticism. If we're talking about... It was said here that the law on police stipulated that a police officer should assist a Member in his duties. It is very clear there that only legitimate obligations should be helped. The police are not obliged to help out of the law and to organise meetings with more than 20 people today. We absolutely cannot support the legal nihilism that is being cultivated on the part of individual Members. Colleagues, this is not democracy, and it is not the rule of law if all this is not taken into account and if it is completely forgotten that there is an emergency in the country and that there are laws, and if everyone now believes that he is right to put the police on the ground or to squander him or not to defraud him. And that disco that was arranged... I'm sorry, my fellow Members, what called for this all to happen? That, in your opinion, is legal and democratic and is in line with the Constitution? I would like to remind you once again - those who have forgotten - of Article 116 of the Satversme. This Article provides that fundamental human rights, including certain freedoms, may be restricted in order to protect the rights and public order of others, safety, including public health. Why are you forgetting it all the time? So, colleagues, I call on you to remember that Members are also equal before the law and that everyone has to respect the law. And don't tell me you don't have a chance to follow it. There's a chance. Notice, and there will be no problem with the law. Another thing if we are talking here about populism and the desire to get additional political capital in certain marginal circles; then it is another thing. But then... Colleagues, then it is an extremely low level of parliamentaryism. There's nowhere else to fall. If a Member is running to a policeman, he doesn't stand in front of this policeman himself and starts screaming so that the policeman presents him with a certificate and asks him why he's here (in the footsteps) in "hidden"... Well, I'm sorry, that Member has just not grown up to his office. If you have to stress everywhere that you are a Member and try to stick to the parliamentary immunity in order to violate national restrictions and not to comply with the laws, well, I'm sorry, you really... Perhaps you have to think, maybe you have to grow a little bit and understand where you are elected, what the duties of a Member are. Members are not obliged to monitor police activities and run to every police officer. Members are the legislator. Members have a duty to decide on legislation in a particular legislative process, not to run and now to command every police officer. I am sorry, this is totally unacceptable. Since I am calling for this request for resignation to be rejected as totally unfounded. And I call on these individual Members to look in the mirror, and it will turn out there that you see a harsh police force, but you do not see a beam in your own eye. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U207	Thank you. Name to Member Juris Pucem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U208	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear Minister, Highly respected colleagues! Dear colleagues, The proposed resignation is obviously an end in itself. There is no legal doubt that a Member of the Saeima is obliged to comply with a law whatever that Member thinks of that law. This obligation, of course, is for any citizen, but the demands of the Saeima are higher. Our responsibility is incomparably higher. Member of the Saeima has sworn or solemnly promised to observe the law. There is also no doubt that law enforcement agencies, including the State Police, are in place in the country to protect the law and ensure that it is respected. The national police have been given strict statutory powers, but at the same time wide powers, so that they can fulfil this function. It is a great responsibility both to the individual, where the State police must respect the priority of protection of individual rights and to the public, that these powers will be applied wisely and, at the same time, the work of the State Police will be effective and the aim of protection of the law will be achieved. The law also establishes a clear, precise and legal system for monitoring the legality of the work of the State Police. Every decision of the police may be subject to review in accordance with the procedure laid down by law. Every individual has the right to apply to a senior police officer or prosecutor's office for a review of the legality of the decision. This is nothing new to a legally educated individual. The law also makes it clear that political officials must not interfere with police decision-making. The opposite action by the political officials responsible for home affairs - the Minister for the Interior - would be illegal. This is known to the applicants for the mission, but they demand that the Minister of the Interior violate the law. It is clear that Maria Golubeva will not do this. I call for the request to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U209	The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U210	Good evening, Speaker of the Saeima! Good evening, Minister. Good evening, colleagues! The viewers and the listeners! I will begin by expressing my thanks to all those people - policemen, fire-fighters, employees of other home affairs and also emergency surveillance and surveillance institutions - who make sure that the country is safe, that people are healthy and that the country exists as such. I must also thank the Members who have shown in this debate the real face they think about their people, about the people... fellow human beings, as these coalition forces are currently dealing with a country, by dividing the people into two parts according to their own certain characteristics. I would not have spoken if the Minister had not mentioned some sacral phrases in his speech, as she feels. And it's like - unvaccinated kills. No, Minister. Science proves that indifference kills the wrong decisions of politicians. Very much kills. It also kills the fact that in the home system police are forced to work under inappropriate conditions, use still Soviet time furniture, go to work not with confidence and joy, but with a great deal of... push... moods, because they know what premises they will have to work for. They know that once again there will be political pressure - to serve the forces of the coalition. Even now - because of this emergency - the police go to the shops and check the paperwork instead of criminal detection and prevention. I understand that the coalition very much wants to look beautiful, to fulfil the rules that are understandable for itself, but life on the streets and across the country is going, and it is very different than you think. We see in the news what happens to the purchased fire-fighting vehicles, which are put on untapped roads and which are not suitable for Latvia's conditions, but have been bought by very large millions, without even asking those people who will have to work with it. We can see that the police spaces mentioned above are also... Or in Riga... The previous minister urged to unite the right and left coast police in new, modern premises, the new minister figured out that he didn't... and moved the money elsewhere. Obviously it is not as important as the work “One Law – One Truth for All” as the police work, why they have to work in such premises. And there's a lot to say about. The border too. This case, too, with Belarus' extensive hybrid war, proves that the Ministry is unable to respond quickly. For unknown reasons, time is being wasted, and attempts are being made to justify that these illegal refugees... not even refugees, they're illegal border offenders... must, in particular, be taken. Yes, I understand there are human values when children and women must be saved from war, but not sorted - many people are being brought into the country, using the state's helping hand and then disappearing in an unknown direction. I could talk about a lot of things that have come together in the area of home affairs, which is represented by the Minister for Home Affairs, but of course I am aware that absolutely nothing has been done in the home affairs system for many years, so that police, firemen and other people in the home affairs have a pleasant working environment so that they can carry out their duties in the best conscience. Nothing has been done... because in Riga it looks better... Excel tables say - much better than it is in life. I am not a lawyer, maybe I am not an expert in the Articles of the Satversme... to the very last comma, but I see everyday life. Mr Ruck's statement that builders do not need to read the Constitution, goes beyond any frame, and weak apologies on public and social networks do nothing. The word is expressed, people have heard it. They're offended. And that doesn't make the police more prestigious. And here's not the usual policeman who may go with the idea, going with enthusiasm to work that wants to help this country, who wants order in this country. Unfortunately, they have to suffer from the fact that the management does not understand that only working together, only being in a rock with the state and what is happening there, can happen better. I do not support, of course, the fact that people are attacking the police, that they are involved in word changes and that they are not the most pleasant. Yeah, I too... together with Mr Ranzan, we saw these shots from the police point of view in our commission. I was not proud of what the Member may have done. No, this is not acceptable to me either, but the situation must be assessed from both points of view. Perhaps there were problems in this case on the one hand and on the other. And its problems arose both on the one hand and on the other, and the question was why. I think there was more policy involved than real danger or something... a real problem that the police were sent to solve. At the end of my speech, I think that the accusation by Mr. Rancana that the opposition is dealing with legal nihilism is completely out of place, because he called for a regulation by the Cabinet of Ministers. 720 can be seen as an example that the Cabinet of Ministers is not only legal nihilists, but also aware of the pests that are currently trying to divide society in the maximum way possible. It is estimated now that around 62,000 people... From today we don't know what's going to happen tomorrow. They have to leave work, they don't know what to eat tomorrow. Some of them will leave Latvia. And for that, thank you to the many millions we invested in airBaltic, who are still successfully leaving the country. I'm not saying airBaltic should stop flying. I'm not saying airBaltic is responsible. The coalition that is in power is to blame and the laws that have been passed that divide society, which does not encourage people to return to their homeland... Who wants to be here... but more hit out of the country. To my questions to the Ministry of Health, who will be the moment when vaccination will no longer be compulsory, which will be the percentage that will be achieved when this vaccination will not be the only rescue from this dangerous disease, the answer was very vague. In spring it was 70 percent, last week it was about 90 percent... 92 percent. I mentioned this once today - that Mr Perevoščikov showed the situation in Sweden. In Sweden, the situation is reversed in proportion to our situation. Swedes have taken great care of their inhabitants from 60 and up... over 60 years of age. There, the vaccination coverage is over 90 percent. We've got a beak of 60 with us. In Sweden, the vaccination coverage in the 17+ age group is significantly lower than in Latvia. What does this indicate? This shows one thing: we, with the methods currently being applied by the Cabinet of Ministers, are not forced by these regulations by the groups that should stop, go and do it... for fear of loss of employment, for fear of loss of income. On the other hand, we spot EUR 20 in the risk groups for people leaving and carrying out vaccinations at risk. We have to work with a group that is actually in danger... where we don't know how to work. But we are very big specialists to force people to do what they may not want to do right now. There will never be 100 percent vaccination in Latvia. Never! And this is demonstrated by many situations. There is no answer right now, no plan B, C or other Latvian alphabet letters... an estimate of what will happen to these people maybe in a month, in two months. I expect, as I said at the beginning, that one part will fly thanks to airBaltic, while one part will lead to crime. As we do, I don't know, because the cops won't have time, they'll have to run through the little hairdressers, check the documents, they'll have to check the small shops, don't give the god, there's some crazy thing going on. We're not going to have time for the cops to do these things, because they're forced to sit on a broken table, work with back-to-back computers. Life-saving appliances shall be driven by machinery which is not fitted with suitable tyres on a ice-free road. That is what we have at this moment in our home system. I understand that the Minister cannot do everything at this time, but the Minister is also doing nothing to get things on the best floor. Legislation is driven by proposals that cannot be understood in every way... that the police will have to assess on the street - don't give the god, get away with some offensive word about the LGBT community. It turns out that the police must now also be able to filter it. I'm sorry, it's not a police job, it's a public education, and we're not going to have a police officer for every person. Talking about people don't feel safe in their country right now... It turns out that in this country at least 40 institutions have the right to impose a penalty - to impose a penalty rather than to explain, explain or show the way how to do more... but to impose a penalty without explanation. Where do we come from? We come to the point that, now that the coalition is still standing, society is being divided, internal security is being weakened, including external security... of which. To distract attention from these problems, there are supposedly false problems involving large police forces and then boldly declaring that the great dangers have been eliminated. That's not the case. The reality behind the window is quite different. Once again, I sincerely want to thank the policeman, the ordinary one, the one who goes to the streets that face the face of crime every day, the firefighter who faces every day that he cannot come to a place of fire... ambulance drivers, doctors and nurses, who are currently struggling with government chaos throughout the health system and throughout the country and society. I call, however, for support for the resignation of the Minister for the Interior and I call on my fellow Members - perhaps, however, the coalition will reflect and finally start talking to all Members and working hand in hand, as the President once called for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U211	Thank you. Name to Member Krista Bauman.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U212	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear Minister for the Interior. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Everyone who looks at us and listens to us! As a rule, the request made by the Minister for Demission is motivated by the fact that the official has not done anything or is doing his job badly. This time, the opposition is calling for the Demission of Marija Golubeva, because the Minister and the services subordinate to her Ministry have done their job, namely to ensure compliance with the law and public order. This is their direct obligation. Even if they are faced with a naked man in their hands, even if, ironically, the law and order is not observed by a person whose party is called “Law and Order”. In my opinion, the title of "illegality and chaos" would be a more appropriate one. Maria Golubeva has only been in office for six months. She received a heavy inheritance and soon... Lukashenko's hybrid attack, where innocent people are used as weapons at our borders. She didn't just manage it successfully... built a temporary fence, but also matched sensitive and conflicting humanitarian interests with state security protection, cooperated with non-governmental organisations and media and honored Latvia internationally, including in cooperation with neighbouring countries' colleagues and participating in negotiations on the support of the European Union. At the same time, she is developing a modern approach to the "Internal Security Academy", raising the issue of hate speech on the Internet, having achieved 96 per cent of the vaccination coverage in her sector. The Ministry of the Interior has engaged in the creation of the project “Children’s House”, approved the Anti-Trafficking Plan and reached the adoption of the amendment to the Law “On Police”, which ensures that in future the police will have the right to distinguish between frogs without application of the victim. The next year's budget provides significant additional funds for the increase in salaries of police officers and other domestic workers, improvement of working conditions and purchase of modern transport for the needs of the State Police and the State Fire and Rescue Service. These are just some of the work and plans done by the Minister. In my opinion, these are impressive achievements in the short term in a time of crisis. Dear colleagues, I call on the Minister to continue to support his work and vote against this pointless, selfish and populist request for a democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U213	Thank you. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. ( Pause) Mrs. Svekov, we can't hear you. We still can't hear it. We can't hear you. ( Pause) Let us give the floor to the Member who has applied for next. The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U214	Yes, listening to the debate of my opponents, I feel like I'm in the Soviet Union or Belarus, and I have to reword the Chief of State Police Armands Ruck, saying... Well, what happens if the former low-ranking State Revenue Service employees start to interpret the Constitution, Mr. Rancāns... or in the best traditions of a Soviet secretary, the speech that Krista Baumane just said... My detention a week ago on Monday was an obvious, disproportionate act of power, of intimidation of power against the people and against the political opposition. It was stopped for only one reason, just because I did not give up. Just because I continued to drive all over Latvia by bus to take pictures with people. And just because more and more people are opposed to this violent act of power, violent, anti-democratic act of power. That was why the police, under the authority of the Minister for the Interior... ceased illegal activities by apprehending me, restricting my freedom. And only because of the fear of our people, because in nature there was no change in the facts, why did the police have to change the established algorithm of action. That's the number one. Number two. I stress once again: in our country, power is nothing different from Belarus or Russia. Not with anything! It is addressing the political opposition, it is calculating, it is persecuting, it is tracking, it is not shooting or poisoning for the time being, even though I have received the threat of death and I have turned to the police, even though my children have been tracked and I have turned to the police, but in those cases the police have not actually reacted to nothing. It has responded at a moment when I am smiling, good off the bus Neoplan to take a picture of a pensioner or student and to record a silly or lively video for distribution in social networks. But at a time when my kindergarten - minors, two-year-olds, kindergarten - is standing adult man and filming my children's entry and taking pictures of my children's entry into the kindergarten, the police do not react. It responds by hiding around my private house. All this is seen in video surveillance cameras. That day driving with me, and even yesterday when I was going to my friend, I was driven by a security police car that came in... cameras... There too. And it's all fixed. I, dear people, all the inhabitants of Latvia, have wanted to show you in the last week how undemocratic and how much we are living in a similar regime for Belarus and Russia. We do not differ with anything. And even if you're a member of the Saeima, just because you have a different opinion, and just because you're allowed to say that Golubeva is going to the business class in Portugal to smuggle taxpayers' money, you're going to be violent. People who are likely to know much less from the Constitution will talk about you at the parliamentary tribunal. Your children or your woman, who will be psychologically tried by various services, will not stand up for you just because you are a fearless member of the opposition, who can please you, may not like it. But there is no doubt that this Member is fearless. We live in a country in which the State Police is led by a person who does not objectively evaluate the situation, but permits public ridicule on the premises of the Saeima... The parliamentary commission building on a very serious issue relating to human rights, namely the restriction of freedom. He lets you laugh not like a highly intellectual man... Although it is for the police officer to explain and objectively assess legitimate considerations in his hands as well. All of us, Latvian society, saw police violence against people in the last week. It was like on your hand everywhere. We have all seen that our police are not protecting people but are provoked by mess. Takes the piano away for yourself and encourages criminal proceedings, although without taking the piano away, no one would have brought it up and the criminal proceedings should not be done. Crying old women behind the hair, breaking their hands to people walking on the street, not knowing their rights and not knowing how to explain their rights and responsibilities to other people. And that surprises me. As a person with legal education, I am surprised that throughout the territory of the Republic of Latvia, while driving with the policeman Savchenko and some others, there is a “procedural” (footsteps) activity – “to the edge!” . Like gangs or razborks, I'm sorry at some farmyard! And I will remind you that the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia does not provide that I have to “go to the side”. You are told here about the threat to the country in absolutely pointless speeches. And about the fences and security, the invaders or something else. But, dear people, you have to understand that at the presidential palace, the so-called presidential palace, you can freely rent state property - state-owned property - and rent it to a person who supports a member of the Saeima who is locked in handcuffs a few days ago. And this is evidence of total incompetentness and unprofessionality. That's what was illuminated this week. In a democratic country around the world, people have the right to protest against the coercion of power, against aggression, including against restrictions, but Latvia is an exception. In Latvia, people are being oppressed... like Russia and Belarus. It is not for nothing during the last week that our President of Latvia accepts the Ambassador of North Korea. I think we're living in something we can't understand... we live with some incomprehensible president who is separated from reality. North Korean Ambassador? Here in Latvia? That is the direction that is taking place in life. Imagine the resources that have been invested. Tukums was the first place. In the distance, I was greeted, early Monday morning, working hours. Three times fewer people greeted me than there were police. What 18 people were there - 18! And I'm locked in the irons. He was there with 50 policemen who had blocked all Tukums. Just because I had rented a big bus with a big my picture on it. I didn't know you shouldn't rent a bus and you shouldn't stick your picture. I allow if this bus had a photograph of Mrs Golubeva, everything would have been in the best order... or Mr. Rancan's picture. The problem is that no one recognizes him. We live in totalitarian regimes, and I am sure that this regime will fall. I am convinced that the crimes committed by Armands Ruck and by the security police in Normunds Forestplace, which have been covered by Maria Golubeva, will not be timebarred tomorrow. I hope that the day will come when we will once again live in a democratic country where the opposition is not put on its mouth, does not break its hands and does not make it possible to go to facilities in the Tukums district or in Ventspils, which have simply not been washed out. Just haven't been cleaned. We live in a country where there is an unscrupulous power. It is quite clear that this permissiveness will ever end, just as the Soviet Union, which also prohibited opposition from being at the monument to Freedom, ended. I am convinced of that. I know it, I feel it and I say it safely to you: dear people, we will soon be soon! - Let's see that in our country you will all be free people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U215	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U216	Yeah, thank you. I hope you can hear me this time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U217	Please talk. You hear me, yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U218	Thank you. Humanity, cooperation, reforms. What actually lies behind these beautiful words used by the Minister of the Interior in his address? Next year - Saeima elections. Election marathon has begun. The political marathon has begun with provocation, inspired by the political power in power for Development/Par! together with the Chief of Police of the New Conservative Party at the forefront of Ruka, using police officers as hostages for achieving their political selfish objectives. The Ministry of the Interior is under the political control of law enforcement authorities. The police opened several activities during the meeting of Gobzem with the voters, but the real purpose of these police activities was not order and security of the population; the real purpose of these activities was to marginalise and discredit the opposition. This assumption has just been confirmed by Mr Ranzan in his speech by the New Conservative Group, who said that it was only for them, the New Conservative Party, that they were right and that they were only entitled to express their truth to the rest of society. Next. In his address, the Minister of the Interior drew attention to internal problems, to the failure to disclose murder orders, to the possible over-exploitation of police powers, and very quickly to the tense and difficult situation on the external borders - to the hybrid war with Belarus, to the potentially dangerous situation on the Ukrainian border. I'm not saying there's no problem, but the minister uses the trick in the circus - removes the viewer's view. Prevents problems with a neighbouring country, but does not see in its own eye... problems. The critical tension with Belarus caused - what? Was it not party associations for Development/About! The representative Mayor of Riga, who deliberately provoked a neighbor - took the flag of Belarus during hockey games? Then who first started the tension? Who is responsible for the consequences of the hybrid war? Who is responsible for the construction of fences and these tensions? I believe that responsibility must be taken on Development/About! , which is now trying to subjugate all the remaining problems. Mr. Pūce talks about the special obligation of the Member to comply with the requirements of the law in cynical manner, because Mr. Pūce himself was not particularly legitimate and used by the Riga City Council... Older passers for personal use. I am not saying about the decision taken by KNAB to refuse to initiate criminal proceedings for the possible adoption of illegal donations because... in connection with Mr Mitchell's report... simply the amount from which criminal liability arises did not reach the necessary levels. And indeed - in the work of the Ministry of the Interior restaurant there is a lack of humanity, the ability to cooperate with society, listen to and hear society. Reforms aimed at the use of modern digital tools, while strictly respecting human rights, focusing on children, combating crime and combating drugs - these are the real problems that concern society and not fictional, inspired, marginalised measures that politicians are implementing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U219	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U220	Hello, colleagues! I am one of those Members who signed this request for distrust to the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva. Personally, I was not absolutely important who was taking up this important item in our country. With all due respect for Mrs Golubeva... But this whole story of Member Gobzem reminded me of a few moments from my own life. The deep Soviet times, in the summer of 1986, were followed by two events behind each other. The first was that my friends and I, who allowed Jurmala to dance breakdance and listen to loud music on the beach, were arrested by the militia. We were all put in the bobbi of the militia, taken to the militia station, asked everyone to write the explanations, and to our question why we cannot listen to music and dance, they said: “You simply cannot”. But these were Soviet times. Second. That very summer of 1986, at the Freedom Monument, where I came to find out why people gather here... It was the very first moment I learned that we in the university were silent about history and lying about... And there, at the Freedom Monument, in 1986 there was exactly the same thing that Member Gobzem is currently talking about. A man in private clothing (I allowed it to be a staff member of the KGB) simply said to me: “Go, please, here, girl.” And then I was asked what I was doing here, for which I was doing here, and asked me to go to the next building, one room... and so on. Then there were several more cases related to the KGB. I know all this style since then and I know how to distinguish the work of the security services from that of the usual police officer. I watched very carefully all the videos that were available on the days when Gobzem was detained. And it was already clear in Tukums that... The first car to which Gobzem was taken, where he was tried to put, was not a police - stencil - car, but a black, untrawl car. And it was clear there that police officers brought... Those who sat in this car, here he is! And then probably they were told - no, no, but not with us. And then she was taken to the stencil... The fact that I wrote this request, I repeat, is not specifically directed against Mrs Golubeva, who obviously and... maybe they are dealing with their responsibilities - not good, not bad, but they are being done. This request is a protest against what is currently happening in the country. That this border, which separates the self-governing from the law, should not be violated. In order not to break the line that allows the security services to track any person in their minds. If we look at events that were related as if the epidemiological safety rules were not being respected (I do not want to talk about what had happened at the Freedom Monument on 18 November, but about it by the cook of the Morning Dome), then... Tell me why the police explain to Member Gobzem the tracing and persecution that they wanted to prevent violations? Then it turns out that none of those who took part in the cook's morning's brow followed? That they can do whatever they want? And what will be the next step in Gobzem’s “tree”? Is he gonna find a patron? That is not what I want to allow. And if the State Security Service were not subject to the Ministry of the Interior, I would not sign this request for a mission. But because it is precisely under the State Security Service at the moment and it was obvious that all these activities were coordinated with the VDD, it is worth both signing this request and voting in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U221	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U222	Yeah, I forgot to say... I wanted to thank all those Members who have signed a request from Minister Marija Golubeva for his resignation. Thank you to all those who have listened to my speech today and who will also vote... Regardless of whether we are political competitors or not, and regardless of whether we like or dislike each other, there is some human moment, and I wanted to thank you for that: thank you for supporting me at this point, because it is not easy, humanely simple. It's psychologically complicated, that the State Security Service's being scrambled around your house by these... actually criminals and...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U223	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U224	Dear colleagues, There is indeed a rather difficult debate today. I am not among those who have signed this request, but, to be honest, not just of the debate, but of all the things that have happened recently, there are many questions and a lot of misunderstandings. First. Probably many do not like Member Gobzem; there are people who like him, but the question is not about Gobzem in this case. There is a question of expressing trust or not giving expression to the Minister for the Interior - why should this be done? And now I'm convinced. First of all. Even if Gobzem weren't a Member... This precedent showed the ways and methods of action by the various officials responsible, the actions as one that was combined with only one - that they were carrying out orders from above. It can be seen from official frames, from informal frames. Consequently, the first question that should be asked the Minister for the Interior to himself is whether this precedent is worth examining and investigating carefully, not how professionally the police are, but how it is managed and managed: effectively or inefficient, lawfully or unlawfully, and so on. The Precedent is asking for this. Second. That this precedent cannot be investigated by police officers themselves. There must be an independent investigation, a neutral investigation. And there is another problem that should be considered when it comes to different types of reforms. In particular, public control of security authorities is extremely necessary and must be professional and independent; it must be a mandatory component of all this activity. The second question from this series is, however, 'the attitude towards Members'. And it's also a question of investigation, and it should be initiated by the Minister of the Interior, because those questions... Gobzem's question: that is not the first question. I remember very well - during the period of the previous Saeima's wish... A cuneiform opponent, a cuneiform opponent at that time, Artus Kaimiņš was detained in front of the cameras at the Saeima House, on the floor of the Chamber, and placed in an insulator, sat there in an insulator, was released. I don't know to this white day if anyone apologized to Mr. Kaimiņš for their detention, about the circus that was created. Mr. Neighbour was a member of the Saeima at that time, and is a member of the Saeima today. I now have more and more doubts in the Adamson case, because this is a mist of secrecy... I think you can ask a number of questions here, too. Well, the first question... Let us say that it has been six months since the detention, while the case is ready for referral to the public prosecutor's office. The case, where no one had questions about whether its accusation of spying was in place or out of place. Is there any reason... Except for 40 or how many episodes there are... or whatever... Is that so? There were two more charges. It took me six months to understand... The question is, a is it really Mr. Adamson, whose political biography perhaps would not be very pleasant for many present and former politicians (and his actions also, by the way)... He's an officer, he's a former Minister of the Interior. He is a man who has been tested a thousand times, but indeed - a opponent in his own opinion. Is it really a serious and well - founded accusation? There should also be some kind of public control over how and on what basis this accusation was directed. That's why... To sum up the whole thing, this is not about the fact that Mrs Golubeva should run the police... No, her political responsibility is to make this mechanism work exactly as the law requires. And that its requirement really applies to all Members, including Mr Gobzem, including Mrs Golubeva, including Mr Rancan. I think that, in this case, we should all think about something - and not just think about it, but also take action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2337-U225	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on distrust to the Minister for the Interior Marija Golubeva! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 20, it's against - 52, it's not. The draft decision is therefore rejected. Dear colleagues, We have examined the agenda of the sitting. In Colonel 18.25 we will begin today's third remote emergency sitting. So let's continue at 18.25. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. On December 16th, I closed my second remote emergency sitting.
