ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-18-PT13-203-U1	Mr. President of the Republic! Mr. Prime Minister! Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Saeima! Hello, everyone who follows the Saeima sitting! The official sitting of the Saeima on 18 November 2021 dedicated to the 103rd anniversary of the announcement of the Republic of Latvia. The official sitting of the Saeima takes place at the Saeima House, but the Saeima Members are in various Saeima buildings and halls, so I would like to start by congratulating everyone. Members of the Saeima Presidium, chairmen of parliamentary factions, President of Latvia and Prime Minister are currently present in the Saeima’s meeting room. Hello! Hello, the 'Development/Par!' group. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. ( On the screen, Development/Par!) .) Good afternoon, group YOUNG Unity! ( On the screen, the New Unity Group.) Hello, the New Conservatives! ( On the screen, the New Conservative Group.) Welcome, National associations “All for Latvia!” –‘Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK’ group! ( On the screen - the NA fraction.) Hello, the "Independence" group! ( On the screen, the ‘Independence’ group.) Hello, the Social Democratic Party Group's 'Conciliation'! ( On the screen - AGE.) Hello, the Group of the Greens/Farmers Union! ( On the screen – theZZS Group.) Welcome, non-group Members. ( On the screen, non-attached Members.)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-18-PT13-203-U2	Name to the Speaker of the Saeima Ināra Mūrniece for the holiday speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-18-PT13-203-U3	Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Dear Members of the Saeima! Ministers, honours! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear people! A hundred and three years ago our independent state of Latvia was proclaimed. There was a way from strengthening national self-esteem during the first Awakening to confidence, which was developed by Second Awake! – Latvians want to be free and want to establish their own independent state. According to Floodon: “We want to be gentlemen in our home country, We want to judge the laws for ourselves!” That happened on November 18, 1918! Unfortunately, the ink to the constitutional law had just dried up when the severe, complicated War of Freedom or the War of Independence began. But one thing was clear – your country must be kept! Without the political wisdom and zeal of the government at that time, this would not be possible. The war of independence showed what the government of Latvia can and what the nation can defend its country. After victory in the War of Independence, development and growth began in Latvia. The structure of the state was improved, national self-esteem was strengthened, work on the Constitution took place, which lasted for two years and ended in 1922. The next year, a hundred years have passed since the Constitutional Meeting adopted this basic law of our country. The Constitution defines the constitutional framework of the State of Latvia. The Constitution expresses in written form the aim of the establishment of our state and the agreement on how the people – based on shared values and mutual respect – protect and enhance both common and individual benefits. In the same 1922 Prime Minister Zigfried Anna Meierovics proposes to launch a competition for the building of a monument dedicated to heroes who died in the Freedom War. The monument project of Kārlis Hall, which was later described as the monument of Freedom, embodied ideals and goals of the War of Independence and the development of the country. In the monument to our freedom we see both traditions and joys, as well as the severity of the struggle and the victims. The Freedom Monument encodes both the spirit of the founding state and the War of Independence and our Constitution. Mother Latvia is held in the hands of our Three Stars. They are still reminding us that the most important thing we have ever been able to protect only with consensus and mutual respect, with each other, all together. It is a great satisfaction that this autumn the Freedom Monument will blink out particularly beautiful. Thank you for Mr. Valdis Zatlers, his colleagues and all those who supported the project! Dear people! Is it really Latvian political wisdom, phoneism and zeal that were still alive after 50 years of occupation? Our people's Third Awake! Our people clearly acknowledge – yes, wisdom and zeal were alive! Maybe a few spines were broken. Perhaps there were not so many who knew during the occupation that Latvia had continued to exist in international law all these years, but during the Awakening, every patriot of Latvia felt – now it is the moment when the portal of freedom has opened up and all minds have to be put together to get his country back. This time, the main fights of the ‘war of independence’ took place with legal weapons. The Supreme Council, with its votes on 4 May 1990 and 21 August 1991, made the restoration of independence a constitutional fact. In the legal thinking of the Soviets, the legal fact was quite minor, but in the legal sense of the Westerns – on the contrary – it was very important. This was clearly understood by the authors of the Declaration of Independence of 4 May, especially Egils Levits and Roman Apsitis. The political wisdom and zeal of the wake-up leaders, our great lawyers and the people themselves was the one that put Latvia back on the map of the world after the Third Awake! Second time! After a 50-year break! Honorable people of Latvia! At first, more often, now less often, but the similarity with the war is also mentioned, talking about the Covid-19 pandemic. In a way, it really seems like a war, because at the same time we have to deal with many disasters. With the disease itself, with the unwillingness of people to respect restrictions. There will be a fight against disinformation, conspiracy theories and abusive false news. Just as at the end of the 18th century, when we had to use some kind of propaganda to convince people to graft against the smallpox, we now have to tell and convince in various ways why we should vaccination against the Covid-19. Doctors say about it: “We are in this war not to kill but to save lives!” And life can be saved so easily – with the vaccine. Please vaccinate someone who has not yet learned to do so. I express my deepest respect and thanks to our doctors working on the first lines of the pandemic front, fighting for human life day and night. Despite the greatest threat – and this is a threat to life – the pandemic also heats up political processes. The pandemic has exacerbated the relationship between individual social groups and the state. Citizens across Europe are angry at their governments. Governments are being blamed for indecision, for firmness, for restrictions, for lack of restrictions, for the requirement to vaccinate, for the availability of vaccines, for the need to test. Tragically, people still die because of lies and misinformation. Humanly, this pandemic is an unprecedented test for us, our children, our parents, our grandparents. It examines the ability of our society to cooperate, to rely on each other. It examines our common sense and our ability to think critically. It checks the maturity of our society. This pandemic will come to an early or late end – but Latvia will remain. It is important that the war against the pandemic does not turn irreversibly into a struggle between us, into divisions and intolerance. Yes, there are things that we cannot anticipate and control. However, it is only in our hands that we continue to live and live with others during this time. Everyone deserves a hearing and respect. If it seems that there are links in society that were usually strong and that we felt so beautifully lately – in the centenary of our country – then we need to think about how to restore and strengthen these links. Let us be wise, strengthen, not weaken, one another! Honorary Latvian Patriots! Allies of Latvia! There will now be unprecedented hybrid operations at the external borders between the European Union and NATO in Poland, which are deliberately carried out by the Belarusian regime, trying to bring thousands of migrants into the EU. The provocations are also directed against Latvia and Lithuania. It is our duty to protect our land, and we are fulfilling this obligation. An emergency situation has been announced in several border areas of Latvia, equipment is provided, resources for protection of the border between Latvia and Belarus have been significantly increased. Other services – police, Land Guard, troops of the armed forces – have also gone to help border guards. Coordination between our services and ministries is taking place at the highest level, and this coordination is being developed to the greatest extent possible. We are also keeping our international partners informed about the situation. It is our duty to explain the situation, and their understanding of the seriousness of the situation is increasing. I can say that we have reliable partners in both the European Union and NATO. The Baltic States are dealing with the situation at the Belarus border with great consensus in support of Poland. The work takes place at the same time at several political levels – the Presidents of Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania met this week, and the President of Poland joined the discussion. The Baltic and Polish parliamentarians are closely involved in the dialogue. Intensive work is taking place at the level of the Prime Ministers, the Ministers for Foreign Affairs, the Interior and Defence. We know – each country starts with a border. Protect your border – it's the highest priority! At the moment, our responsibility is even greater, because we are protecting not only our own country, but also the external borders of the European Union and NATO! I am convinced that we will receive international financial support for strengthening our border. European cooperation is rooted in respect for democratic values. We must continue to support the democratic opposition in Belarus, which is facing increasingly brutal persecution and oppression in its own country. Although the situation in Belarus may seem hopeless and any changes – impossible, let us remember our own national resistance movement during the darkest years of the Soviet occupation and its symbol Gunārs Astra. Just like Gunārs Astra at the time, Belarusian freedom fighters are now courageously in favour of justice and believe that this time will pass over Belarus as an evil nightmare. This year we celebrate the 30th anniversary of our Earthguard. The Earthguard continues to develop. Latvian landguards, young guards are worthy heirs and bearers of Lāčplēsis spirit for future generations! During the national holiday, I thank in particular the border guards, the national guards, and the soldiers who protect our country and, at present, the eastern border of the European Union and NATO in particular. The security environment in the Baltic region, Europe and the world are changing. Unfortunately, the occupation of Crimea by Russia continues. The ceasefire is regularly violated, with shots in the east of Ukraine. The United States has warned its European partners of a possible Russian invasion in Ukraine during the migration crisis in Lukashenko. It is essential that NATO adapts successfully and operationally to the changing security environment. A meeting of NATO Foreign Ministers will be held in Latvia for the first time soon – on 30 November and 1 December. In addition to addressing the current security challenges at the Riga meeting, NATO allies will discuss cooperation with partners and the European Union, as well as start discussions on the new strategic concept of the Alliance. A significant event in our capital! We are grateful and welcome the contribution of allies to the NATO enhanced presence in the battle group in Latvia, as well as the patrolling of the Baltic airspace. We must do everything to continue to promote a strong NATO collective defence presence in the region and a deterrence policy, thus strengthening the security of our region. Latvia appreciates the continued support of the United States for Baltic security and defence! We call on the US to strengthen its presence in the Baltic States. Honorable residents of Latvia! Everyone is interested in the development of their own economies. According to the conclusions of Latvijas Banka, this year there has been rapid growth in certain sectors, which has allowed Latvia's economic growth forecast to increase to 5.3 percent by 2021. That's good news! But despite good forecasts, Latvia's economy is lagging behind our neighbours in the Baltics. Employment policy, targeted structural reforms, as well as production development would allow Latvia to change its place in this troika, where for 15 years we have unfortunately been the third. The task of working for economic development is never limited to the term of office of a particular government. This is a question of national sustainability. This autumn has also come with a worrying situation – energy prices on the world stock exchanges have risen. The solutions found by the Ministry of Economics to support citizens – the amount of support will be increased for protected users, large families and others. As soon as 1 January next year, every citizen will, hopefully, feel and feel what it means to increase the unlimited minimum to 350 euros, and from 1 July to 500 euros. Dear Members of the Saeima! This is the last 18 November, our country's birthday, which we expect together as 13. The Saeima. By 14. There is less than a year left for the parliamentary elections. We need to bring together what has been done and there is still time to finish what is planned, but what has not yet been done. The work of the Saeima has also been affected by the pandemic: many times from the present work we have moved to a remote job, we have devoted a lot of time to the Covid-19 situation. However, it must be recognised that more respect for the Saeima and for our colleagues in Parliament would have been only good for a number of Members. Just as openness and willingness to admit errors would have better helped create a climate of trust between politicians and society. The ability to openly acknowledge their mistakes, to offer new solutions, is a sign of political maturity and strength. When the world around us is becoming more unpredictable and insecure, we need to seek power ourselves. Returning to our roots and sources of power, we will not allow our identity to be determined for external circumstances. No one has already said that state building is characterised by continuous growth. Sometimes the challenges ahead of us are far greater than we seem to carry. More harsh periods are often replaced by good times. A hundred years will come next year from the beginning of the first parliamentary term. Our history of democracy - yes - has been relatively short, but the principles of democracy and the spirit of parliamentaryism are at the heart of our country. Let us strengthen them with respect for one another and for society! Dear people! History shows trust in the state of Latvia and its people, when supporting each other in the name of a great goal, has allowed them to overcome the most difficult times. This faith and faith have never deceived us. It has given us insight, far-sightedness, and zeal, which have always been used at crucial times. The life of the sun for Latvia! God bless Latvia! ( The national anthem of Latvia is being played.)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-11-18-PT13-203-U4	Thank you all. Happy birthday, dear Latvia! I declare the sitting of the Saeima dedicated to the 103th anniversary of the announcement of the Republic of Latvia closed. May a beautiful holiday be for everyone! Video transmission of the sitting
