ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2332-U1	Dear colleagues, We will begin to examine the agenda for the third remote emergency session of the Saeima on 9 December this year. After examining it, we will return to work on the agenda of the second remote emergency sitting on 9 December, namely, the agenda that has been launched and has not yet been completed. So now on the agenda - the agenda announced by the third remote emergency sitting on 9 December and the Bureau's reports on the draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection” (No. 1258/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft Act “Amendments to the Health Care Financing Act”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Ilmārs Dūritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2332-U2	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. High honourable Members! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The Social and Labour Commission worked on this draft law this morning and examined the proposals submitted. We received two proposals for a second reading in the draft law on "Amendments to the Health Care Financing Act". 1. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. In point 13, ‘30 April 2021’ is replaced by ‘14 February 2022’, namely ‘30 April 2021’. But earlier, that's the 14th of February 2022. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2332-U3	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2332-U4	Go on.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2332-U5	Ladies and gentlemen, I see that a vote has been requested. Unfortunately, it is too late. I would like to call for a debate or to request a vote in due time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2332-U6	2. - Ivars Zarins' proposal. It is planned to supplement the draft law with a new article in the following wording: “to provide the Cabinet of Ministers with state funding in 2022 to raise the salary of health care workers by at least 10 per cent.” This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2332-U7	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2332-U8	Good afternoon, everybody! I would really like to hear the reasons why this proposal has not been supported by the Commission. What I offer is the least promised to the doctors they would need, i.e. an increase of 10 percent on pay. As we know, the medical situation is critical, the workers... medical personnel are becoming less and less, the shortage is increasing, i.e. if we are talking about doctors, it is measured in hundreds of nurses, that is, in average staff, it is already measured in thousands. And one of the main reasons is that there is not adequate remuneration. If we really want to approach what is happening in the healthcare sector, what is happening with the community infection, so that it can be combated in a real and effective way, then, in my opinion, this is the least that should be done. What was promised to the medical profession must be fulfilled. Now that these budgetary battalions have ended, when the coalition of power no longer has to worry about the fact that their reciprocal transactions can be broken and this coalition can be confused, I think we could approach responsibly, the whole Saeima could approach this issue responsibly and decide not only what is necessary for the coalition of power, but also what is needed for the state of Latvia, the whole society of Latvia. Colleagues, I call for support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2332-U9	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2332-U10	Well, on behalf of the Commission... In fact, the Commission expressed both the opinion of the Ministry of Health that such regulation at the moment of the draft law would not be acceptable. Consequently, the Commission did not support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2332-U11	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Ivars Zarina's proposal! Please, let's vote! - 29, against - 45, refrains - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2332-U12	So, honourable colleagues, we have examined both proposals. I call on Members of the Saeima to support this draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2332-U13	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Health Care"! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft Law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on the Management of Infectious Effects” (No. 1255/Lp13), first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Ilze Indricksone.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2332-U14	Hello, colleagues! The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on the Management of communicable Effects” (No. 1255/Lp13) and supported it at first reading. The draft law contains two essential conditions relating to the limitation of community time in an emergency situation in the country. First and foremost, the draft law does not calculate the subject of minimum contributions for the months in which an emergency situation has been announced in the country, so on October, November, December and January. And the other proposal, which is in the bill, is that employees who are absent because of their fault or who are left unpaid will not have to make mandatory minimum contributions, national social security contributions. The Commission is asking for this draft law to be adopted as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2332-U15	Thank you. So Members do not want to speak about urgency. Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” (No. 1255/Lp13) recognition as urgent! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2332-U16	The Commission supported the draft legislation at first reading. I also call on you to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2332-U17	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2332-U18	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, This for us today is one of the... Does anyone still remember how many sittings it will be today, how many sittings were there, colleagues, yesterday? Today we are looking at the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on communicable Effects” (No. (1255/Lp13) at first reading. A few minutes ago we voted on whether to refer the draft law to the Commission under the same name (No. (p. 1258/l.13), amendment to the same law. Today, colleagues, in the morning the Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš was in the TV3 programme “900 Seconds”. For him, the journalist asked why the so-called ‘Covid-19’ green certificate could not be accompanied by a driving licence? Why not? What was the Prime Minister's answer, my colleagues? He replied that he himself did not understand why a driver’s licence could not be a document. This response is absolutely correct. I think that many people in Latvia, as well as many Members of the Saeima, do not understand why a driving licence cannot serve as a document. I guess this response was not quite correct from the head of government. Why do I say all this, colleagues? I say this because I would like to ask you a question: do you yourself understand all that we are voting on yesterday, today. Do you understand? Do you, like the Head of Government, not quite understand what you are voting on? In this particular draft law, colleagues, it is proposed, as the representative of the Ministry of Finance said at the meeting of the Commission, to take a step towards employers and allow them not to pay social security contributions for those workers who are suspended because they have not vaccinated. My question is, what is the government's policy with regard to all those people who have chosen in principle not to receive vaccinations, the government's representatives were unable to give any answers. No, perhaps one indirect answer was that the unemployment rate recorded in the country has now increased. Here, colleagues, you, especially your colleagues from the ruling coalition, have the question: so you have chosen to take this forced path by denying those people who do not want to vaccinate, the opportunity to work by making them stay away from work. You now say that employers do not have to pay social security contributions for them, as long as employees are suspended. We're just yesterday... A few days ago, we heard in the statements of the Head of State for Employment that, here too, people who have not been vaccinated who have gone into the unemployed... apply for unemployment benefit so that they may not be able to fully qualify for unemployment benefit either because they have not vaccinated. So I have a question for you, fellow Members, as I have already said, especially from the ruling coalition, what are you going to do with all those people who have not vaccinated? I understood from various officials' statements that your plan was that you thought all these people... that they bluff that as soon as the government and the Saeima take such a basic, hard stance, all these people will choose to vaccinate, but we see that this is not the case. We can see that for the time being, if I was not mistaken, about 10 percent of the workforce chose not to receive vaccination. There are employees there, there are teachers, even municipal Members, also members of the Saeima, by the way, at least one. So they're definitely much bigger than you thought. They may not work, they may not receive remuneration. You are now saying, as far as I am concerned, that those who apply for unemployment benefit cannot receive unemployment... whether they will have limited access to unemployment benefits. Then I have a question for you, colleagues! What are you going to do with these people? How will they be able to do this, for example, in today's weather... What means will they be able to pay public bills, for electricity, for gas, for having a roof above their head? How will they be able to buy food? Because we are talking about a great many people in Latvia, and I think they too deserve an answer to the question that, behold, if they have already made such a decision... So what... What is government policy in the future and also the policy of the majority of the Saeima towards these people? I call on one of the coalitions, of course, on condition that you... At least you understand what you are voting on today, or you are just... all its several extraordinary Saeima sittings, all those draft laws, all those amendments to draft laws with the same names... You're all that... Just a button of press that you're like a premiere... You don't understand why, how and what was decided. I call on you to think about this, and those who understand what is going on to respond to both your colleagues, the Members of the Saeima, the public and those people, the many people who have chosen to take such a fundamental position. What's next, colleagues? What's next? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2332-U19	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2332-U20	The Commission supported the draft law at first reading. I also call for your support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2332-U21	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the control of the spread of infection” (No. 1255/Lp13)! Please, let's vote! For - 46, for - 11, for - 2. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2332-U22	The deadline for proposals is one hour, and consideration of 16 December... the meeting of the Saeima on 16 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2332-U23	So the deadline is one hour, well, let's give you a round time... Let's round it. So the deadline for submitting proposals - by 15.00, today... 9 December 2021 and consideration at the Saeima meeting on 16 December. Thank you. The order of business - consideration of draft decisions. Draft decision on the approval of the vote at the meeting of the European Stability Mechanism Board on the repeal of the direct recapitalisation instrument. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2332-U24	Hello, dear colleagues! Dear Members, Honourable Members! Draft law... an explanation of the draft decision. For Europe, the Stability Mechanism is an international financial institution that can provide financial support to euro area Member States. In order to be able to grant loans to ESM countries, financial resources are raised on the market by issuing debt securities. The European Stability Mechanism has the following key instruments: the provision of loans, the issuance of debt securities and indirect recapitalisations, when the ESM lends money to the state and the State invests in the bank. However, in 2014, an uncharacteristic instrument was created within the ESM, i.e. a direct recapitalisation instrument to provide direct assistance to banks. It allows the facility to invest capital directly in the bank that needs to be rescued. The direct recapitalisation instrument provides for funding of EUR 60 billion, but the direct recapitalisation has never been carried out by the ESM. Why is this instrument repealed? Because the European Stability Mechanism is being reformed. The objective of the reform is to integrate the ESM into the legal framework of the European Union. Without the European Stability Mechanism, there is another European Union institution called the Single Resolution Fund. It has been integrated into the legal framework of the European Union, and its mission is also to ensure that banks in difficulty are regulated, including through their recapitalisation, but the Single Resolution Fund consists of payments from all banks in the euro area, not taxpayers' money. And now the 60 billion that the ESM has at its disposal for the direct recapitalisation instrument will be directed towards the new lending line that the ESM Single Resolution Fund can lend. Accordingly, the ESM Treaty is being amended, the amendments will be ratified by all European countries at the end of December, so that once the amendments to the Treaty enter into force, the ESM Board has decided to repeal the direct recapitalisation instrument. In order for Latvian representatives to have the right to vote on it in accordance with the Latvian law “On the representation of Latvia in the Board of the European Stability Mechanism and the Board of Directors”, support from the Saeima is required. According to the law, the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers comes to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and, upon acceptance, the committee is directed to support the Saeima. The draft decision has been adopted by the Commission. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft decision of the Saeima whereby the Saeima agrees that the representative of Latvia at the meeting of the European Stability Mechanism Board will vote in favour of the abolition of the direct recapitalisation instrument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2332-U25	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of the vote at the meeting of the European Stability Mechanism Board on the repeal of the direct recapitalisation instrument! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting has been examined. Members' registration is over. I therefore closed the third remote emergency sitting on 9 December this year. 15 minutes later, it means 14.10, we will return to the second remote emergency sitting on December 9, this year. Let's resume at 2.30 p.m.
